---

title: Mobile application creation system
abstract: A computer implemented method and system for creating a mobile application provides a mobile application development software (MADS) and pre-coded software components (PCSCs) encapsulated in a mobile application creation interface (MACI). The MADS dynamically maps data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more data sources and launches the MACI. The MADS creates one or more composite software components (CSCs) by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from component sources and/or the PCSCs. The MADS inserts one or more PCSCs and/or CSCs into the MACI. The MADS generates one or more recommendations for adding one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application. The MADS creates the mobile application using the inserted PCSCs, the created composite software components, the recommendations, the dynamically mapped data, and/or an adaptively configured application programming interfaces that facilitate backend integration of the mobile application with the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08813028&OS=08813028&RS=08813028
owner: 
number: 08813028
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130719
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 673 702 titled Mobile Application Creation System filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Jul. 19 2012.

The specification of the above referenced patent application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Consumers and business entities are increasingly using mobile devices such as smart phones tablet computing devices personal digital assistants other handheld devices etc. for performing various personal work and business or enterprise related tasks. In addition to using mobile devices for different forms of communication for example voice communication messaging etc. these mobile devices also allow consumers and business entities to perform other functions such as accessing and displaying websites sending and receiving electronic mails capturing and displaying images playing videos music and other forms of audio social networking etc. These functions are typically performed by software applications that are either built into the mobile devices or that are run on top of operating systems of the mobile devices.

Competing mobile device manufacturers developers and other service providers typically offer hardware and software in the form of mobile operating systems or in some cases a combination of both hardware and software which has led to the development of dissimilar and incompatible mobile device platforms and environments due to the use of different operating systems which have their own programming environments and software development tools. Developing mobile applications for these different operating systems and mobile devices requires varying design techniques programming languages separate operating system specific or device specific software code and compilations etc. Therefore developers find it difficult and challenging to develop mobile applications that are portable across multiple types of mobile devices. Furthermore developers require specific technical knowledge and expertise in software programming with specific programming languages and an understanding of specific mobile operating system platforms for developing mobile applications for different types of mobile operating systems and or mobile devices. Since a high level of skill and expertise is needed to create deploy and update mobile applications many non technical users and users who lack experience in a specific programming language or a specific mobile operating system cannot develop and or distribute mobile applications.

Conventional mobile development platforms typically allow users to develop mobile applications of a particular type that cannot be configured or changed and therefore limit the development and utilization of various features and specific functions included in mobile devices and their respective mobile operating systems. The scope of these mobile applications are limited to consumer applications such as access to website content graphics video books links to a social profile etc. These mobile development platforms allow non technical users to develop only generic business to consumer B2C applications with simplified rules. Business to consumer B2C type of mobile applications comprising metadata for example an application type are relatively easier to develop and are supported by most mobile development platforms. There is a need for providing pre coded software components that are connected to backend databases to enable non technical users to create mobile applications of different types without coding and by unifying similar or disparate software components from multiple data sources.

Moreover conventional mobile development platforms only provide access to a single layer of data that allow for example web pages to be assembled on the fly but do not provide support for hierarchical layers of data data interaction and business rules that allow non technical enterprise users to quickly assemble software components to develop enhanced enterprise grade mobile applications. Moreover conventional mobile development platforms do not allow backend integration of the developed mobile application with the user s computing device or with backend databases for non technical users.

Furthermore context and behavioral elements for example user behavior user intent etc. varies from one user to another and typical mobile application development platforms do not provide components or tools that are adaptable based on the context and behavioral elements. Moreover conventional mobile application development platforms do not support dynamic data mapping for establishing a link between the data being rendered and multiple data sources prior to creation of a mobile application. Furthermore non technical users may not be aware of enhanced functions and features that can be implemented in a mobile application for enhancing the mobile application. There is a need for providing recommendations to a user for addition of enhanced functions and features in the mobile application based on a real time analysis of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application.

Wearable devices for example the Google Glass of Google Inc. iWatch of Apple Inc. etc. and associated technology are becoming more widespread and are being used in everyday life for carrying out various activities. Moreover due to recent adoption of policies for example bring your own devices BYOD organizations are in constant need of mobile application development platforms that can be used by non technical users to design and develop complex mobile applications that can be deployed across various devices including wearable devices with varying degrees of form factors to securely manage upgrades and downloads through an application store and to manage usage statistics to gain better visibility on mobile application usage. Typical mobile application development platforms do not allow non technical users to develop and deploy complex business to business B2B mobile applications for these wearable devices.

Furthermore machine to machine M2M applications use a device for example a sensor a meter etc. to capture an event for example temperature an inventory level etc. relay the captured event for example through a wireless wired or hybrid network to a mobile application and translate the captured event into meaningful information. The M2M applications allow both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices of the same ability. Typical mobile application development platforms do not combine device data for example sensor data with application business processes to enable decision making based on real time analytics and mashup applications.

Hence there is a long felt but unresolved need for a computer implemented method and system that provides encapsulated pre coded software components to perform multiple functions in the form of a software package and enterprise grade mobile applications that are connected with backend databases enables creation of enhanced software components or widgets without coding provides support for native web and cross platform mobile applications provides an interface to dynamically map backend data sources and add new fields on the fly provides connection of data from multiple data sources enables creation of complex business to business B2B mobile applications that require complex business rules and data validation allows development of M2M applications or sensor specific applications that combine sensor data with business processes and creation of process and sensor composite or mashup applications and implements application programming interfaces for backend integration of the developed mobile application with the user s computing device and with backend databases. Furthermore there is a need for a computer implemented method and system that enables a user to create mobile applications with software components that comprise hierarchical layers of data and that adapt based on the context and behavioral elements of the user when deployed on mobile devices. Furthermore there is a need for a computer implemented method and system that enables non technical users to develop and deploy complex mobile applications for various devices including the wearable devices without any programming.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further disclosed in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein address the above stated needs for providing encapsulated pre coded software components to perform multiple functions in the form of a software package and enterprise grade mobile applications that are connected with backend databases enabling creation of enhanced software components or widgets without coding providing support for native web and cross platform mobile applications providing an interface to dynamically map backend data sources and add new fields on the fly providing connection of data from multiple data sources enabling creation of complex business to business B2B mobile applications that require complex business rules and data validation allowing development of machine to machine M2M applications or sensor specific applications that combine sensor data with business processes and creation of process and sensor composite or mashup applications and implementing application programming interfaces for backend integration of the developed mobile application with a user device and with backend databases. The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein also address the above stated needs for enabling a user to create mobile applications with software components that comprise hierarchical layers of data and that adapt based on the context and behavioral elements of the user when deployed on mobile devices and for allowing development and deployment of mobile applications for various devices including wearable devices for example Google Glass of Google Inc. iWatch of Apple Inc. etc.

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein provides a mobile application development software for creating a mobile application for a user device. The mobile application development software is executable by at least one processor configured to create the mobile application. The mobile application development software is configured as a platform that allows a user to access the platform using a thin client via a browser such as an internet browser and create complex mobile applications using tools and or libraries hosted on a network such as the internet or hosted in a cloud computing environment. As used herein the term cloud computing environment refers to a processing environment comprising configurable computing physical and logical resources for example networks servers storage applications services etc. and data distributed over a network for example the internet. The mobile application development software is hosted on a mobile application development platform. The mobile application development software is accessible by a user device for example a personal computer a tablet computing device a mobile computer a mobile phone a smart phone a portable computing device a laptop a personal digital assistant a touch centric device a workstation a client device a portable electronic device a network enabled computing device a gaming device an interactive network enabled communication device a wearable device such as Google Glass of Google Inc. iWatch of Apple Inc. etc. any other suitable computing equipment and combinations of multiple pieces of computing equipment etc. via a network. In an embodiment the mobile application development software is configured to operate for example as a software as a service SaaS or a platform as a service PaaS .

The computer implemented method and system disclosed herein also provides multiple pre coded software components executable by at least one processor and encapsulated in a mobile application creation interface. As used herein the term pre coded software components refers to pieces of pre written computer program code encapsulated to perform predefined functions in the form of a software package or a software model. The pre coded software components comprise for example smart widgets micro widgets etc. The pre coded software components are adaptable based on mobile context and behavioral elements for example preferences of a user habits of a user etc. The pre coded software components comprise hierarchical layers of data interactive elements that enable interactions with the data and predetermined criteria. As used herein the term interactive element refers to any interface component configured to obtain data or feedback from a user transform the obtained data into one or more visual entities enable real time user interactions within the mobile application creation interface etc. In an embodiment the pre coded software components further comprise social networking components that embed social features with business processes and or follow up action items in the mobile application. Also as used herein the term mobile application user interface refers to a user interface simulator that allows the user to create the mobile application in communication with the mobile application development software. In an embodiment the pre coded software components are configurable for generating supplementary software components for example smart widgets micro widgets etc. using the mobile application development software and multiple data sources.

The mobile application development software dynamically maps the data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more data sources. In an embodiment the mobile application development software dynamically populates the data sources in the mobile application creation interface and allows mapping of one or more of the data sources to one or more of the pre coded software components for updating the pre coded software components and or for creating one or more distinct software components. The mobile application development software receives a selection of preconfigured user interfaces or a list of predefined user interfaces from the user device via the network for launching the mobile application creation interface. The user selects one or more of the pre coded software components provided and displayed by the mobile application development software. The mobile application development software receives an indication of each of the selected pre coded software components from the user device via the network. The mobile application development software creates one or more composite software components by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from multiple component sources and or the pre coded software components. As used herein the term composite software component refers to a software component that uses and combines data presentations and or functionalities from two or more component sources and functions as a new software component with a combination of data presentations and or functionalities. The mobile application development software then inserts one or more of the selected pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface.

The mobile application development software generates one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry a category etc. related to the mobile application. As used herein the term characteristic objects refer to additional features and functions characteristic to the functions industries and categories of other mobile applications that are similar to the mobile application being created and that may be incorporated into the mobile application being created. In an embodiment the mobile application development software dynamically updates the generated recommendations for the addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a selection of one or more supplementary characteristic objects received from the user device. The mobile application development software also adaptively configures one or more application programming interfaces APIs for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for operating the mobile application on the user device. The adaptively configured application programming interfaces implement for example one or more of a back office integration a machine to machine convergence a process to machine interaction gamification augmented reality near field communication etc. for establishing communication and exchange of the data between the created mobile application and the user device.

The mobile application development software creates the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface using one or more of the inserted pre coded software components and the created composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces. In an embodiment the mobile application development platform generates revenue by distributing the created mobile application to enterprise application stores for a fee. In an embodiment the mobile application development software displays real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface during each stage of the creation of the mobile application. The mobile application development software connects the created mobile application to multiple backend databases via the network for creating enhanced mobile applications for example enterprise grade mobile applications. The mobile application development software enables creation of mobile applications of multiple types for example a native type of mobile application a web type of mobile application a cross platform type of mobile application etc. In an embodiment the mobile application development software provides direct access to web services and or application programming interfaces APIs from a web address. In another embodiment the mobile application development software collects real time usage data for tracking and categorizing users of the created mobile application and for providing real time analytics to target surveys advertisements etc. for example to cross sell and or up sell offerings to provide offerings to retain mobile customers based on the mobile application usage and preferences etc.

The mobile application development software provides multiple pre coded software components for example smart widgets micro widgets etc. executable by at least one processor and encapsulated in a mobile application creation interface. As used herein the term pre coded software components refers to pieces of pre written computer program code encapsulated to perform predefined functions in the form of a software package or a software model for example a smart widget a micro widget etc. Also as used herein the term mobile application user interface refers to a user interface simulator that allows the user to create the mobile application in communication with the mobile application development software. The mobile application user interface is for example an online web interface accessible via a network such as the internet. The pre coded software components may contain features that are adaptable based on context and behavioral elements for example preferences of a user habits of a user etc. The pre coded software components such as smart widgets contain elements that are adaptable to the behavioral mindset of a mobile native user while the user accesses the smart widgets from the user device. For example a sales management mobile application may highlight a list of accounts to follow up with based on contextual and behavioral elements such as a sales representative location and a contract review date.

The pre coded software components further comprise hierarchical layers of data for example multiple layers of pages interactive elements that enable interactions with the data and predetermined criteria. As used herein the term interactive element refers to any interface component configured to obtain data or feedback from a user transform the obtained data into one or more visual entities enable real time user interactions within the mobile application creation interface etc. The predetermined criteria comprise for example a business rules. As an example a business rule defines that a user can create new opportunities only for customers with existing accounts or customers. The mobile application development software provides for example a pre coded opportunity widget that enables a user to search and select existing customers prior to creating a new opportunity record from their user device. If a customer does not exist in a database the mobile application development software instructs the user to create a new user record prior to entering new opportunities. The mobile application development software represents the pre coded software components as reusable graphical user interface elements on the mobile application creation interface. The pre coded software components for example smart widgets are preassembled based on business process flow and requirements. The pre coded software components comprise multiple layers of pages and or user interfaces UIs and business rules. The pages and or UIs are designed for mobile consumption unlike other application development platforms that provide only web pages to be assembled on the fly. For example a marketing widget comprises relevant data fields shown on multiple layers of pages and business rules to allow a company to enforce certain business rules that each user has to follow while allowing each user to personalize the mobile application for their own consumption.

The pre coded software components enable business process management capture of documents notes etc. via a keyboard or another input device via voice etc. and social collaboration. In an embodiment the pre coded software components further comprise social networking components that embed social features with business processes in the mobile application. A user may insert social networking components for example a like button or a follow button in the mobile application to allow users to collaborate with other users who may share a common interest. Consider an example where a marketing team of an organization is working with a prospect and maintains an account for that prospect. From a social networking point of view a user can follow and or like the prospect s account through the mobile application and the team can add comments or collaborate with other users of the mobile application. The social networking components combine social sharing with business process management by embedding the social networking features within the business process of a pre sales life cycle. In another embodiment the pre coded software components further comprise social networking components embedded with follow up action items. A user may insert a social networking component for example a like button along with a request to perform a follow up action item in the mobile application. For example when a user clicks on the like button in the mobile application the user is also required to take an action relevant to a social media item such as post a feedback note buy a product show an intent to buy a product or any other type of follow up action item. In an embodiment the pre coded software components are configurable for generating supplementary software components for example smart widgets micro widgets etc. using the mobile application development software and multiple data sources.

The mobile application development software dynamically maps the data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more of multiple data sources. The data sources comprise other mobile applications and databases that are enabled for mobile consumption via application programming interfaces APIs . For example the mobile application development software maps the data to be rendered in the mobile application by linking the data for example with backend data sources remote data sources sensors etc. In an embodiment the mobile application development software dynamically populates the data sources in the mobile application creation interface and allows mapping of one or more of the data sources to one or more of the pre coded software components for updating the pre coded software components and or for creating one or more distinct software components. The dynamic population of data sources in the mobile application creation interface allows a user to map one or more data sources to either an existing widget or create a new widget. In an embodiment the dynamic mapping of data allows a user to generate a supplementary software component for example a widget that is connected to multiple data sources such as backend data sources remote data sources etc. and populate only those data fields in the mobile application that are mapped by the user. Consider an example where a data source has 10 data fields and there is a corresponding widget that shows all 10 data fields in the mobile application. If a company or a user wants to display only 5 data fields in the created mobile application a user can map only those 5 data fields so that when a user drags and drops the widget on the mobile application creation interface or a simulator of the user device only the mapped data fields for example 5 data fields are shown in the created mobile application. In an embodiment the user is required to create data mappings and or business rules before assembling the mobile application.

The mobile application development software receives a selection of one of the preconfigured user interfaces also referred to as custom user interfaces or one of a list of predefined user interfaces also referred to as prebuilt user interfaces from the user device via the network for launching the mobile application creation interface. For example the user may select a user interface designed by a user or a standard user interface provided by the mobile application development software for launching the mobile application creation interface. The user can then select one or more of the pre coded software components provided and displayed by the mobile application development software. The mobile application development software enables non technical enterprise users to quickly assemble smart widgets to develop enterprise grade mobile applications. The smart widget is preassembled based on business process flow and requirements. The mobile application development software allows users to drag and drop these preassembled widgets that comprise multiple layers of pages and business rules into the launched mobile application creation interface. The mobile application development software receives an indication of each of the selected pre coded software components from the user device via the network. For example the mobile application development software receives a selection of pre coded software components such as a smart widget a micro widget etc. from the user device.

The mobile application development software creates one or more composite software components by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from multiple component or data sources and or the pre coded software components. As used herein the term composite software component refers to a software component that uses and combines data presentations and or functionalities from two or more component sources and functions as a new software component with a combination of data presentations and or functionalities. For example the mobile application development software creates composite software components such as mashups by combining more than one disparate pre coded software component. In another example the mobile application development software creates composite software components by combining more than one disparate software component from remote data sources or by combining two or more disparate pre coded software components and disparate software components from remote data sources. In another example a user can assemble the mobile application by combining smart widgets connected to one or more component or data sources. The mobile application development software therefore enables creation of machine to machine M2M or sensor specific mobile applications and creation of process and sensor mashup applications. In an embodiment the mobile application development software provides a drag and drop option associated with each of the pre coded software components and the composite software components for allowing the user to virtually grab one or more of the pre coded software components and the created composite software components and drag the pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface. The mobile application development software enables the user to develop enterprise grade mobile applications using the drag and drop option. The mobile application development software inserts one or more of the selected pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface as the user drags and drops the software components into the launched mobile application creation interface.

The mobile application development software generates one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application. As used herein the term characteristic objects refer to additional features and functions characteristic to the functions industries and categories of other mobile applications that are similar to the mobile application being created and that may be incorporated into the mobile application being created. Consider an example where a user wishes to create an inventory management application based on the user s knowledge and business requirements. The user decides to include some basic features to enable an end user to perform certain functions. Based on the functionality the industry and the category of the inventory management application a recommendation engine of the mobile application development software analyzes similar applications developed by other users and compares the characteristic objects included. If the comparison results show an additional characteristic object relevant to the inventory management application the recommendation engine generates a recommendation to include that characteristic object in the inventory management application. While assembling the mobile application the recommendation engine learns from other mobile applications being developed based on the type of mobile application and other characteristics and generates recommendations based on a real time analysis of the data. The user has the option of accepting or rejecting the generated recommendation.

Consider another example where a sales mobile application created by a user comprises multiple associated widgets. The widgets associated with the sales mobile application are for example accounts contacts leads etc. The mobile application development software dynamically updates the associated widgets based on addition of other widgets for the same mobile application type. If another user while creating the same mobile application type that is a sales type of mobile application decides to add an opportunity widget and agrees to share the selection the mobile application development software dynamically associates the opportunity widget with the sales application. This association grows as more and more users add additional widgets to develop a certain type of mobile application. In another example the mobile application development software provides a real time recommendation of certain features to be added to the mobile application and also the type of mobile applications that should be developed at an enterprise level.

In an embodiment the mobile application development software dynamically updates the generated recommendations for addition of the characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a selection of one or more supplementary characteristic objects received from the user device. For example the mobile application development software dynamically updates the generated recommendations pertaining to a sales function industry or category if a user selects addition of a characteristic object such as tracking a sales order. The mobile application development software leverages selective data to provide specific recommendations to end users while they use a mobile application created using the mobile application development software.

The mobile application development software adaptively configures one or more application programming interfaces APIs for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for operating the mobile application on the user device. The mobile application development software enables standard backend integration via the application programming interfaces APIs which does not require additional programming. That is the same API can connect to either a process based backend data system or another sensor. The mobile application development software passes a parameter to indicate the type of connection between the mobile application and the user device and or a data source. The mobile application development software configures the API to adjust the configuration based on the connection type thus minimizing efforts on further programming. The configuration of the API helps users to easily integrate machine to machine M2M or sensor specific data with business processes. Consider an example where a mobile application collects information on current readings from a patient s blood pressure monitoring system and retrieves data from another system that stores historical blood pressure readings of the patient including additional information such as drugs readings of other vital signs etc. In this instance the mobile application development software uses the same API call with different parameters to retrieve sensor data that is the blood pressure data and process data. The mobile application development software displays the retrieved data to the user to enable better decision making.

The mobile application development software creates the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface using one or more of the inserted pre coded software components and the created composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and or the adaptively configured application programming interfaces. For example the mobile application development software creates the mobile application using one or more widgets and or page layouts that are predefined or dynamically created by users the generated recommendations fields that are dynamically mapped with the data sources and the new fields that are added to a widget using the drag and drop option and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces. The adaptively configured application programming interfaces implement for example one or more of a back office integration a machine to machine convergence a process to machine interaction gamification augmented reality and near field communication for establishing communication and exchange of data between the created mobile application and the user device as disclosed in the detailed description of . The mobile application development software creates mobile applications of multiple types for example a native type of mobile application developed specifically for a particular type of an operating system of a user device a web type of mobile application developed based on web browser technology and a cross platform type of mobile application developed to work on any operating system of a user device for example iOS of Apple Inc. the Android operating system Blackberry operating system of Research in Motion Limited Windows mobile of Microsoft Corporation the operating system of Google Glass of Google Inc. iWatch of Apple Inc. etc.

In an embodiment the mobile application development software displays real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface during each stage of creation of the mobile application. For example the mobile application development software displays real time data during the dynamic mapping stage of the data to be rendered in the mobile application. In another example the mobile application development software displays real time data during the creation stage of one or more composite software components. As the user drags and drops the software components into the launched mobile application creation interface the mobile application development software displays real time data simulations of the mobile application with the selected composite software components. The mobile application development software uses the real time data of each stage of the process to display the real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface.

In an embodiment the mobile application development software connects the created mobile application to multiple backend databases via the network for creating enhanced mobile applications for example enterprise grade mobile applications. The connection of the created mobile application to backend databases enables a user to extend the backend processes for mobile consumption and deploy the created mobile application across different platforms without any coding or programming. The connection of the created mobile application to backend databases enables non technical users to develop complicated business to business B2B type of mobile applications that require business rules and data validation. The business rules for creating B2B mobile applications are stored in the backend databases. In an embodiment the mobile application development software also provides direct access to web services and or application programming interfaces from a web address. The direct access to web services and or application programming interfaces from the web address is achieved as long as the data on the web service is exposed for consumption. In an embodiment the mobile application development software collects real time usage data for tracking and categorizing users of the created mobile applications and for providing real time analytics of users of the created mobile applications to target surveys advertisements etc. for example to cross sell and or up sell offerings to provide offerings to retain mobile customers based on the mobile application usage and preferences etc. In an embodiment the mobile application development software supports advanced analytics using an in memory database. The in memory database resides on a server hosting the mobile application development software or in a memory unit of the user device or on a random access memory RAM . In this embodiment instead of storing the data associated with the advanced analytics on a server database the mobile application development software stores the data using a combination of the memory of the user device and the server in memory databases to provide real time analytics.

In an embodiment the mobile application development software provides multiple pre coded software components that are configurable to operate with other mobile application development software or platforms a mobile enterprise application platform MEAP a mobile consumer application platform MCAP as a bot on solution etc. For example power users can develop mobile applications using the mobile application development software but further enhancement and deployment can be seamlessly integrated with other mobile application development platforms.

Consider an example where a user wishes to create a mobile application using the mobile application development software. The user selects a pre coded software component such as a widget containing multiple layers of pages data interaction and business rules and a predefined page layout or dynamically creates a widget using the mobile application development software. The mobile application development software launches the mobile application creation interface. The user then dynamically maps data fields with data sources and adds new data fields that do not exist in the widget in the launched mobile application creation interface. Once the mapping is performed the user can drag and drop widgets to assemble the mobile application within the launched mobile application creation interface. The mobile application development software renders real time data in the launched mobile application creation interface while creating the mobile application. The mobile application development software provides support for native web and cross platform mobile applications. Once the mobile applications are created or built and published for example on an enterprise application store end users can download the mobile applications by accessing the enterprise application store directly from their user devices such as mobile phones.

In an embodiment the mobile application development platform hosting the mobile application development software generates revenue by distributing the created mobile applications for example to an enterprise application store for a fee. In another embodiment end users can further create or personalize functions of the mobile application and workflow according to their personal preferences. For example while one user can create a mobile application that displays a to do list on his her home screen and leads near his her location another user can create a mobile application that displays to do lists events and new opportunities. These features can be customized while using a mobile application on the user device. In another embodiment business users can collaboratively create a mobile application with other users using the mobile application development software. For example users can seek inputs from other online business users using the mobile application development software via the network to provide input into mobile application design and features and to add additional characteristic objects into the mobile application. In another embodiment a business user after designing a mobile application can send the mobile application design for approval to his her manager for example via a workflow process or an electronic mail. Once the manager approves the mobile application design the mobile application development software transmits the approved mobile application for publishing on the enterprise application store.

The mobile application development software further comprises a recommendation engine an enterprise backend application application programming interfaces and a local database . The local database stores the smart widgets and their metadata for the mobile application being created by power users. The mobile application development software invokes the recommendation engine the enterprise backend application and the application programming interfaces for example via a JavaScript Object Notation JSON based representational state transfer REST architecture. The recommendation engine generates one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application. The recommendation engine comprises an analytics engine that performs the real time analysis for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application. The mobile application development software provides support for real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications using in memory databases for example . The recommendation engine further comprises a database to store the generated recommendations. The enterprise backend application adaptively configures the application programming interfaces for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for launching the mobile application on the user device . The mobile application development software implements application programming interfaces used for machine to machine M2M convergence gamification augmented reality near field communication etc. for backend integration of the mobile application with the user device . The mobile application development software utilizes game design techniques game thinking and game mechanics to enhance non game contexts in mobile application development. Augmented reality AR is a live direct or indirect view of a physical real world environment whose elements are augmented by computer generated sensory input such as sound video graphics etc. The mobile application development software transmits the created mobile applications for publishing and distribution for example to an enterprise application store . End users can download the created mobile applications by accessing the enterprise application store directly from their user devices .

The mobile application development software comprises pre coded software components a mapping module a data reception module a composite software component creation module a component insertion module a recommendation engine a backend integration module a mobile application creation module and an analytics engine . In an embodiment the analytics engine is incorporated in the recommendation engine . The mobile application development software further comprises a mobile application creation interface and a local database . The local database stores the pre coded software components . The pre coded software components as disclosed in the detailed description of are encapsulated in the mobile application creation interface and are adaptable based on context and behavioral elements. The mapping module dynamically maps the data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more data sources. In an embodiment the mapping module dynamically populates the data sources in the mobile application creation interface and maps one or more of the data sources to one or more of the pre coded software components for updating the pre coded software components and or for creating one or more distinct software components based on inputs received from the user device . The data reception module receives a selection of one of the preconfigured user interfaces or one of the predefined user interfaces from the user device via the network for launching the mobile application creation interface . The data reception module further receives an indication of each of one or more of the pre coded software components selected by a user via the network .

The composite software component creation module creates one or more composite software components by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from multiple component sources and or the pre coded software components . The component insertion module inserts the selected pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface . The recommendation engine generates one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application. The recommendation engine comprises a database for storing the generated recommendations. The recommendation engine further dynamically updates the generated recommendations for addition of the characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a selection of one or more supplementary characteristic objects received from the user device . The backend integration module adaptively configures one or more application programming interfaces for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for operating the mobile application on the user device . The backend integration module further connects the created mobile application to multiple backend databases via the network for creating enhanced mobile applications.

The mobile application creation module creates the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface using one or more of the inserted pre coded software components and the created composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces . The mobile application creation module further displays real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface during each stage of creation of the mobile application. In an embodiment the mobile application creation module transmits the created mobile application to another user specified by the user who created the mobile application for approval. On receiving approval the mobile application creation module transmits the approved mobile application to an enterprise application store for publishing on the enterprise application store . The analytics engine collects real time usage data for tracking and categorizing users of the created mobile application and for providing real time analytics for example to target surveys advertisements etc.

The computer system comprises for example a processor a memory unit for storing programs and data an input output I O controller a network interface a data bus a display unit input devices a fixed media drive a removable media drive for receiving removable media output devices etc. The term processor refers to any one or more microprocessors central processing unit CPU devices finite state machines computers microcontrollers digital signal processors logic a logic device an electronic circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a chip etc. or any combination thereof capable of executing computer programs or a series of commands instructions or state transitions. The processor may also be implemented as a processor set comprising for example a general purpose microprocessor and a math or graphics co processor. The processor is selected for example from the Intel processors such as the Itanium microprocessor or the Pentium processors Advanced Micro Devices AMD processors such as the Athlon processor UltraSPARC processors microSPARC processors Hp processors International Business Machines IBM processors such as the PowerPC microprocessor the MIPS reduced instruction set computer RISC processor of MIPS Technologies Inc. RISC based computer processors of ARM Holdings Motorola processors etc. The computer implemented system disclosed herein is not limited to the computer system employing the processor . The computer system may also employ a controller or a microcontroller.

The memory unit is used for storing programs applications and data. For example the mapping module the data reception module the composite software component creation module the component insertion module the recommendation engine the backend integration module the mobile application creation module the pre coded software components and the analytics engine etc. of the mobile application development software are stored in the memory unit of the computer system of the mobile application development software . The memory unit is for example a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by the processor . The memory unit also stores temporary variables and other intermediate information used during execution of the instructions by the processor . The computer system further comprises a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor .

The I O controller controls input actions and output actions performed by the mobile application development software . The network interface enables connection of the computer system to the network . For example the computer system employed by the mobile application development software connects to the network via the network interface . In an embodiment the network interface is provided as an interface card also referred to as a line card. The network interface comprises for example one or more of an infrared IR interface an interface implementing Wi Fi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. a universal serial bus USB interface a FireWire interface of Apple Inc. an Ethernet interface a frame relay interface a cable interface a digital subscriber line DSL interface a token ring interface a peripheral controller interconnect PCI interface a local area network LAN interface a wide area network WAN interface interfaces using serial protocols interfaces using parallel protocols and Ethernet communication interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces a high speed serial interface HSSI a fiber distributed data interface FDDI interfaces based on transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP interfaces based on wireless communications technology such as satellite technology radio frequency RF technology near field communication etc. The data bus permits communications between the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software .

The display unit displays information display interfaces user interface elements such as data fields text boxes windows icons representing the pre coded software components etc. The display unit comprises for example a liquid crystal display a plasma display an organic light emitting diode OLED based display etc. The input devices are used for inputting data into the computer system . For example a user may enter a selection of one of the preconfigured user interfaces or the predefined user interfaces using the input devices . The input devices are for example a keyboard such as an alphanumeric keyboard a microphone a joystick a pointing device such as a computer mouse a touch pad a light pen a physical button a pointing device a touch sensitive display device a track ball a pointing stick any device capable of sensing a tactile input etc.

Computer applications and programs are used for operating the computer system . The programs are loaded onto the fixed media drive and into the memory unit of the computer system via the removable media drive . In an embodiment the computer applications and programs may be loaded directly via the network . Computer applications and programs are executed by double clicking a related icon displayed on the display unit using one of the input devices . The output devices output the results of operations performed by the mobile application development software . For example the mobile application development software displays real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface during each stage of creation of the mobile application using the output devices .

The processor executes an operating system for example the Linux operating system the Unix operating system any version of the Microsoft Windows operating system the Mac OS of Apple Inc. the IBM OS 2 VxWorks of Wind River Systems inc. QNX Neutrino developed by QNX Software Systems Ltd. Palm OS the Solaris operating system developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. the Android operating system Windows Phone operating system of Microsoft Corporation BlackBerry operating system of Research in Motion Limited the iOS operating system of Apple Inc. the Symbian operating system of Symbian Foundation Limited an operating system of a wearable device etc. The computer system employs the operating system for performing multiple tasks. The operating system is responsible for management and coordination of activities and sharing of resources of the computer system . The operating system further manages security of the computer system peripheral devices connected to the computer system and network connections. The operating system employed on the computer system recognizes for example inputs provided by the users using one of the input devices the output display files and directories stored locally on the fixed media drive for example a hard drive. The operating system on the computer system executes different programs using the processor . The processor and the operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages are written.

The processor retrieves instructions for executing the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software from the memory unit . A program counter determines the location of the instructions in the memory unit . The program counter stores a number that identifies the current position in the program of each of the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software . The instructions fetched by the processor from the memory unit after being processed are decoded. The instructions are stored in an instruction register in the processor . After processing and decoding the processor executes the instructions. For example the mapping module defines instructions for dynamically mapping the data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more data sources. The mapping module also defines instructions for dynamically populating the data sources in the mobile application creation interface and mapping one or more of the data sources to one or more of the pre coded software components for updating the pre coded software components and or creating distinct software components based on inputs received from the user device . The data reception module defines instructions for receiving a selection of one of the preconfigured user interfaces or the predefined user interfaces from the user device via the network for launching the mobile application creation interface . Furthermore the data reception module defines instructions for receiving an indication of each of the selected pre coded software components from the user device via the network . The composite software component creation module defines instructions for creating one or more composite software components by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from multiple component sources and or the pre coded software components .

The component insertion module defines instructions for inserting one or more of the selected pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface . The recommendation engine defines instructions for generating one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application. Furthermore the recommendation engine defines instructions for dynamically updating the generated recommendations for addition of the characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a selection of one or more supplementary characteristic objects received from the user device .

The backend integration module defines instructions for adaptively configuring one or more application programming interfaces for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for launching the mobile application on the user device . The mobile application creation module defines instructions for creating the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface using one or more of the inserted pre coded software components and the created composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces . Furthermore the mobile application creation module defines instructions for displaying real time data simulations of the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface during each stage of creation of the mobile application. The backend integration module defines instructions for connecting the created mobile application to multiple backend databases via the network for creating enhanced mobile applications. The analytics engine defines instructions for collecting real time usage data for tracking and categorizing users of the created mobile application and providing real time analytics for example to target surveys advertisements etc.

The processor of the computer system employed by the mobile application development software retrieves the instructions defined by the mapping module the data reception module the composite software component creation module the component insertion module the recommendation engine the backend integration module the mobile application creation module the analytics engine etc. of the mobile application development software and executes the instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.

At the time of execution the instructions stored in the instruction register are examined to determine the operations to be performed. The processor then performs the specified operations. The operations comprise arithmetic operations and logic operations. The operating system performs multiple routines for performing a number of tasks required to assign the input devices the output devices and memory for execution of the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software . The tasks performed by the operating system comprise for example assigning memory to the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software and to data used by the mobile application development software moving data between the memory unit and disk units and handling input output operations. The operating system performs the tasks on request by the operations and after performing the tasks the operating system transfers the execution control back to the processor . The processor continues the execution to obtain one or more outputs. The outputs of the execution of the modules for example etc. of the mobile application development software are displayed to the user on the display unit .

For purposes of illustration the detailed description refers to the mobile application development software being run locally on the computer system however the scope of the computer implemented method and system disclosed herein is not limited to the mobile application development software being run locally on the computer system via the operating system and the processor but may be extended to run remotely over the network by employing a web browser and a remote server a mobile phone or other electronic devices. One or more portions of the computer system may be distributed across one or more computer systems not shown coupled to the network .

Disclosed herein is also a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores computer program codes comprising instructions executable by at least one processor for creating a mobile application for a user device . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to all computer readable media for example non volatile media such as optical discs or magnetic disks volatile media such as a register memory a processor cache etc. and transmission media such as wires that constitute a system bus coupled to the processor except for a transitory propagating signal.

The computer program product comprise a first computer program code for dynamically mapping data to be rendered in the mobile application with one or more data sources a second computer program code for receiving a selection of one of the preconfigured user interfaces or the predefined user interfaces from the user device via the network for launching the mobile application creation interface a third computer program code for receiving an indication of each of the selected pre coded software components from the user device via the network a fourth computer program code for creating one or more composite software components by combining more than one of distinct software components selected from multiple component sources and the pre coded software components a fifth computer program code for inserting one or more of the pre coded software components and the created composite software components into the launched mobile application creation interface a sixth computer program code for generating one or more recommendations for addition of one or more characteristic objects associated with the mobile application based on a real time analysis and dynamic learning of selective data of similar mobile applications developed for example based on functionality an industry and or a category related to the mobile application a seventh computer program code for adaptively configuring one or more application programming interfaces for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device for operating the mobile application on the user device and an eighth computer program code for creating the mobile application in the launched mobile application creation interface using one or more of the inserted pre coded software components and the created composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces . The computer program product disclosed herein further comprises one or more additional computer program codes for performing additional steps that may be required and contemplated for creating the mobile application for the user device . In an embodiment a single piece of computer program code comprising computer executable instructions performs one or more steps of the computer implemented method disclosed herein for creating the mobile application for the user device .

The computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions are embodied on the non transitory computer readable storage medium. The processor of the computer system retrieves these computer executable instructions and executes them. When the computer executable instructions are executed by the processor the computer executable instructions cause the processor to perform the steps of the computer implemented method for creating the mobile application for the user device .

The backend integration module in the back office component in addition to adaptively configuring application programming interfaces for a backend integration of the mobile application with the user device also performs user management . The back office component stores user information for example user behavior for performing user management . The mobile application development software communicates with the client databases and and third party application programming interfaces APIs for storing the created mobile applications the generated recommendations etc. The application server handles the operations between the user device the back office component and the client databases etc. For example the mobile application development software in communication with the application server handles compilation of mobile applications based on user selections connection of the created mobile applications to backend databases etc. The application server also communicates with the enterprise application app store exemplarily illustrated in . The application server provides bundled distribution service packages in the form of top packages that are stored in a top package database .

The client services provided by the application server and the security component are mapped and stored in the top package database . The client service mappings are then bundled with the created mobile application . The security services allow secure authorization via an open standard for authorization OAUTH protocol for access of services provided by the clients . A client web application is created using client side web technologies and the client services are mapped and bundled with the mobile application in the form of top packages . The created mobile applications are distributed to end users via an online marketplace for example the enterprise application store .

The mobile application development software provides pre coded software components for example smart widgets micro widgets etc. that allow the user to create the mobile application. In an embodiment the mobile application development software enables a user to create dynamic software components for example widgets based on the data. The mobile application development software then allows the user to drag and drop one or more pre coded software components and or composite software components for example smart widgets to create the mobile applications using the drag and drop option. For example a user selects the smart widgets to be added to the mobile application creation interface exemplarily illustrated in which may be prebuilt or customized by the user and drops the selected smart widgets by dragging the smart widgets to the mobile application creation interface . The mobile application development software generates recommendations to the user who initiates creation of the mobile application for addition of characteristic objects that is additional features to be included in the mobile application. Consider an example where a user developing a calendar application decides to include a date a time and a time zone in the mobile application. The mobile application development software recommends for example electronic mail email integration to the calendar application.

The mobile application development software enables backend integration of the mobile application with the user device via application programming interfaces APIs . The mobile application development software invokes relevant APIs for example for machine to machine convergence gamification augmented reality etc. in communication with the systems and or databases of the back office component . The mobile application development software configures the APIs for each organization as the types of user devices used are different for each organization. The mobile application development software comprises an administration module not shown that allows organizations to provide an enterprise information technology IT landscape such as the type of IT systems for example Oracle Sybase SAP etc. used. Once the APIs are configured by the mobile application development software the APIs for the backend systems become active and are used while developing the mobile application. In an embodiment the APIs of the mobile application development software are preconfigured to connect to various data sources. The mobile application development software creates the mobile application in the mobile application creation interface by using the inserted pre coded software components and the composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces . The developers using a software development kit SDK of the mobile application development software launch a mobile development environment and enable power users to compile the created mobile application and test the created mobile application.

The recommendation engine of the mobile application development software generates recommendations for the user developing the mobile application for addition of characteristic objects associated with the mobile application. The recommendation engine recommends micro widgets or widgets based on a method disclosed in the detailed description of context and usage. The mobile application development software enables backend integration of the mobile application with the user device via application programming interfaces APIs . For example the mobile application development software in communication with the back office component comprising back office systems and or databases invokes the relevant APIs such as machine to machine convergence gamification augmented reality etc. for achieving backend integration of the mobile application with the user device . Once the APIs are configured by the mobile application development software the APIs for the backend systems become active and are used while creating the mobile application. In an embodiment the APIs of the mobile application development software are preconfigured to connect to various data sources. In another embodiment the mobile application development software enhances the mobile application features by allowing the user to integrate with additional APIs such as social near field communication etc.

The mobile application development software creates the mobile application in the mobile application creation interface by using the inserted pre coded software components and the composite software components the generated recommendations the dynamically mapped data and the adaptively configured application programming interfaces . The user refines the created mobile application in terms of layout and the user interface. The developers using a software development kit SDK of the mobile application development software launch a mobile development environment and enable the mobile application development platform to compile the created mobile application and test the created mobile application. The created mobile application can be packaged into binary files for different platforms such as iOS of Apple Inc. Android of Google Inc. and deployed for example on an internal enterprise application store public stores such as Apple Inc. s appstore Google Inc. s play store etc. An end user can access the created mobile application from the internal enterprise application store public stores etc.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods algorithms and computer programs disclosed herein may be implemented on computer readable media appropriately programmed for general purpose computers computing devices and wearable devices. As used herein the term computer readable media refers to non transitory computer readable media that participate in providing data for example instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a similar device. Non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media for example non volatile media volatile media and transmission media except for a transitory propagating signal. Non volatile media comprise for example optical discs or magnetic disks and other persistent memory volatile media including a dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Volatile media comprise for example a register memory a processor cache a random access memory RAM etc. Transmission media comprise for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables modems etc. including wires that constitute a system bus coupled to a processor etc. Common forms of computer readable media comprise for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape a laser disc a Blu ray Disc any magnetic medium a compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD any optical medium a flash memory card punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory RAM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The computer programs that implement the methods and algorithms disclosed herein may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media for example the computer readable media in a number of manners. In an embodiment hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Therefore the embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. In general the computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of programming languages that can be used comprise C C C Java JavaScript Fortran Ruby Pascal Perl Python Visual Basic MATLAB etc. Other object oriented functional scripting and or logical programming languages may also be used. The computer program codes or software programs may be stored on or in one or more mediums as object code. Various aspects of the method and system disclosed herein may be implemented in a non programmed environment comprising documents created for example in a hypertext markup language HTML an extensible markup language XML or other format that render aspects of a graphical user interface GUI or perform other functions when viewed in a visual area or a window of a browser program. Various aspects of the method and system disclosed herein may be implemented as programmed elements or non programmed elements or any suitable combination thereof. The computer program product disclosed herein comprises computer executable instructions embodied in a non transitory computer readable storage medium wherein the computer program product comprises one or more computer program codes for implementing the processes of various embodiments.

Where databases are described such as the databases and it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases disclosed herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by tables illustrated in the drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those disclosed herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases may be used to store and manipulate the data types disclosed herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as those disclosed herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database. In embodiments where there are multiple databases in the system the databases may be integrated to communicate with each other for enabling simultaneous updates of data linked across the databases when there are any updates to the data in one of the databases.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment comprising one or more computers that are in communication with one or more devices via a network. The computers may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired medium or a wireless medium such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Ethernet a token ring or via any appropriate communications mediums or combination of communications mediums. Each of the devices may comprise processors for example the Intel processors Advanced Micro Devices AMD processors UltraSPARC processors Hp processors International Business Machines IBM processors RISC based computer processors of ARM Holdings Motorola processors etc. that are adapted to communicate with the computers. In an embodiment each of the computers is equipped with a network communication device for example a network interface card a modem or other network connection device suitable for connecting to a network. Each of the computers and the devices executes an operating system for example the Linux operating system the Unix operating system any version of the Microsoft Windows operating system the Mac OS of Apple Inc. the IBM OS 2 the Palm OS the Android OS the Blackberry OS the Solaris operating system developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. or any other operating system. Handheld devices execute operating systems for example the Android operating system the Windows Phone operating system of Microsoft Corporation the BlackBerry operating system of Research in Motion Limited the iOS operating system of Apple Inc. the Symbian operating system of Symbian Foundation Limited etc. While the operating system may differ depending on the type of computer the operating system will continue to provide the appropriate communications protocols to establish communication links with the network. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computers.

The present invention is not limited to a particular computer system platform processor operating system or network. One or more aspects of the present invention may be distributed among one or more computer systems for example servers configured to provide one or more services to one or more client computers or to perform a complete task in a distributed system. For example one or more aspects of the present invention may be performed on a client server system that comprises components distributed among one or more server systems that perform multiple functions according to various embodiments. These components comprise for example executable intermediate or interpreted code which communicate over a network using a communication protocol. The present invention is not limited to be executable on any particular system or group of systems and is not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention disclosed herein. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may affect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

