---

title: Passive ranging of a target
abstract: In an embodiment, an apparatus includes a detector and a range finder. The detector is configured to determine a direction to a target in response to a signal received from the target, and the range finder is configured to determine a range to the target in response to the direction and independently of an amplitude of the signal. For example, such an apparatus (e.g., a computer-based apparatus) may be disposed on tactical fighter aircraft, and may be able to range (e.g., azimuth range or slant range) a target passively even if an accurate measure of the amplitude of the signal received from the target is unavailable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09341705&OS=09341705&RS=09341705
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09341705
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130206
---
The present application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 751 875 filed Mar. 31 2010 which application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 filed Jul. 6 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 164 510 issued Apr. 24 2012 and of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 364 480 filed Feb. 2 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 081 106 issued Dec. 20 2011 which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 063 251 61 063 290 61 063 271 and 61 063 207 filed on Jan. 31 2008. All of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3002. Accordingly the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This Summary is provided to introduce in a simplified form a selection of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an embodiment an apparatus includes a detector and a range finder that is configured to implement a range finder algorithm. The detector is configured to determine a direction to a target in response to a signal received from the target and the range finder is configured to determine a range to the target in response to the direction and independently of an amplitude of the signal.

For example such an apparatus e.g. a computer based apparatus may be disposed on tactical fighter aircraft and may be able to range e.g. horizontal azimuth range or slant range a target passively even if an accurate measure of the amplitude of the signal received from the target is unavailable.

An operator of a moving vehicle may wish to know a range to a moving target but without giving away the location of the vehicle to the operator of the target.

For example a pilot of a tactical fighter aircraft hereinafter aircraft may wish to know the range to an unfriendly aircraft hereinafter target aircraft without making his her presence known to the pilot of the target aircraft so as not to lose the element of surprise.

Furthermore the pilot of the aircraft may want to know the range to the target aircraft within a time window that affords him her the opportunity to take appropriate action regarding the target. For example assuming that he she has sufficient time to do so the pilot of the aircraft may respond to the target aircraft in one of the following ways evade the target aircraft fire a missile at the target aircraft or engage the target aircraft.

Unfortunately conventional techniques for passively ranging a target aircraft from a tactical aircraft may be unable to provide a sufficiently accurate estimate of the range to the target aircraft within a time window that is short enough to allow the pilot of the tactical aircraft to take appropriate action. Passive ranging means that the tactical aircraft ranges the target aircraft not by emitting any signals but by analyzing signals hereinafter passive signals emanating from the target aircraft along with the measurements of the angles at which these passive signals are incident to the tactical aircraft e.g. at least azimuth and elevation angles can be used for correlating multiple sets of signals from different target aircraft in the battle space . Examples of such signals that may emanate from a target aircraft include radar signals either emitted or reflected by the target aircraft and infrared signals caused by the target aircraft s jet trail or by the heating of the target aircraft s fuselage due to friction with the surrounding air.

For example one such technique relies upon analyzing the amplitudes and incident angles of passive signals emanating from a target aircraft.

But unfortunately this technique may be unable to provide a sufficiently accurate range estimate within a sufficiently short time window due to the degradation of the passive signal amplitude caused by e.g. noise and atmosphere induced fading.

However an embodiment of a technique that is suitable for providing a sufficiently accurate estimate of the range from an aircraft to a target aircraft within a sufficiently short time window is described below in conjunction with for example this technique may be independent of the amplitudes of the passive signals emanating from the target aircraft and may rely only on the incident angles of the passive signals.

But before describing an embodiment of this technique other potentially unsuitable techniques are described in conjunction with .

The pilot of the aircraft may want to obtain accurate real time estimates of the azimuth angles and the horizontal azimuth ranges H Hin a relatively short period of time after the aircraft s onboard electronic warfare system EWS not shown in detects the target T so that the pilot will have sufficient time to take appropriate action regarding the target. For example depending on the situation the pilot may decide to stay on the first heading to make an evasive maneuver to evade the target T e.g. before the target detects the aircraft or to destroy the target by e.g. firing a standoff air to air missile AAM at the target. Although the pilot may also want to obtain accurate real time estimates of the elevation angles and slant ranges neither shown in of the target T relative to the aircraft having estimates of only the azimuth angles and the azimuth ranges H His sufficient for many pilot actions such as those described immediately above.

But for purposes e.g. of stealth the pilot of the aircraft may want to obtain the estimates of the azimuth angles and the horizontal azimuth ranges H H passively i.e. without emitting radar or other signals from the aircraft as described above. If the aircraft emits radar signals then it is possible that the target T may detect the aircraft via detection of these radar signals and such detection may eliminate any tactical advantage that the pilot of the aircraft may have otherwise had. But if the aircraft ranges the target T by receiving and analyzing signals emanating e.g. emitted or reflected from the target T then the pilot of the aircraft may retain his her tactical advantage. Examples of signals that the target T may emit include radar signals that the target T transmits and infrared heat signals that the target transmits by virtue of the friction between its fuselage and the air or other medium through which it is traveling . And examples of signals that the target T may reflect include radar signals transmitted from a source other than the target and the aircraft .

One technique that the EWS not shown in onboard the aircraft may implement to determine passively the azimuth angles and the azimuth ranges H His to determine the azimuth angles by receiving the signals from the target T with one or more direction finding antennas not shown in and to determine the azimuth ranges by measuring the amplitudes and detecting the signature of these signals. The signature of the signals from the target T indicates the power at which these signals are transmitted and the amplitudes of these signals indicate the power of these signals when received at the aircraft . Therefore by applying a conventional signal attenuation function to the transmitted signal power and the received signal amplitudes and possibly to elevation angles between the aircraft and the target T the EWS onboard the aircraft can estimate the azimuth ranges H Has being proportional to the estimated signal attenuation i.e. the lower the attenuation the closer the azimuth range and the higher the attenuation the farther the azimuth range .

But unfortunately many electronic warfare systems EWSs cannot accurately determine the amplitude of a received signal at least not accurately enough for ranging purposes and even those EWSs that can accurately determine the amplitude of a received signal may be unable to do so under certain conditions e.g. severe weather disturbances the range between the aircraft and the target T exceeds a threshold or the transmitted signal power is too low or within a time window sufficient to allow the aircraft pilot to take appropriate action regarding the target.

Consequently it would be desirable at least in some situations for the EWS or another computing apparatus onboard the aircraft to be able to determine the azimuth ranges H Hwithout relying on i.e. independently of the amplitudes of the signals passively received from the target T.

For example one such proposed technique is for a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft to determine the azimuth ranges H Hfrom only the azimuth angles which most EWSs can measure accurately enough for ranging purposes.

But unfortunately this technique may be unsuitable for situations in which both the aircraft and the target T are traveling at approximately constant velocities. For example assume that the aircraft is traveling along the heading at the same speed at which the target T is travelling along the heading . It can be shown mathematically that from the azimuth angles a computing apparatus can determine that the target T is travelling at the same speed as the aircraft is travelling and is travelling along a straight line i.e. a constant heading that is parallel to the straight line along which the aircraft is travelling. But it can also be shown mathematically that the computing apparatus cannot determine how far apart these two parallel paths are from each other and therefore cannot determine the azimuth ranges H H. This is true even if the aircraft and the target T are travelling at different speeds along the headings and respectively and is also true if the aircraft and target are flying straight toward each other at opposite headings at any speeds. And although at some point the aircraft may come close enough to the target T for the pilot of the aircraft to see the target and to make a visual estimation of the azimuth range to the target being within visual range of the target may eliminate at least some of the actions e.g. stealth firing a missile that the pilot may have been otherwise able to take regarding the target.

Although this technique may be suitable for situations in which the target T is travelling at a changing velocity i.e. is accelerating or decelerating relative to the aircraft it has been discovered from years of empirical data that aircraft typically fly straight and at an approximately constant velocity for the majority of the time that they are airborne therefore this technique may be unsuitable for ranging an airborne target from an aircraft in the vast majority of situations.

As described above for the example aircraft and target headings and of it may not be possible for a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft to compute the horizontal azimuth ranges H Hfrom only the azimuth angles for the aircraft and target headings and . Because . . . the azimuth angles provide no information from which the computing apparatus can determine the azimuth ranges. Furthermore not only would the computing apparatus be unable to determine the azimuth ranges H H it can be shown mathematically that the computing apparatus would be unable to determine even whether the aircraft and target T were flying toward each other along intersecting at least in the azimuth plane headings and per or were flying parallel to each other along parallel headings. And this is true even if the aircraft and the target T are travelling at different speeds along the headings and or the parallel headings respectively.

As described above for the example aircraft and target headings and of of it may not be possible for a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft to compute the azimuth ranges H Hfrom only the azimuth angles for the aircraft and target headings and . For example as described above in conjunction with it can be shown mathematically that any heading parallel to the target heading would yield the same azimuth angles . And this is true even if the aircraft and the target T are travelling at different constant speeds along the headings and respectively.

Referring again to even when using a proven technique e.g. using reliable signal amplitude in conjunction with azimuth angles to determine the azimuth ranges H Hfrom the aircraft to the target T a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft may be unable to provide on a consistent basis sufficiently accurate values for the azimuth ranges within a time window sufficient for a pilot of the aircraft to take appropriate action regarding the target.

And the difficulty of determining sufficiently accurate azimuth ranges H Hwithin a suitably short time window may be exacerbated when the target T maneuvers and thus deviates from a straight line heading such as the straight line headings shown in .

In summary an embodiment of the computing apparatus accomplishes these tasks by doing at least one of the following 

 1 assuming that the one or more targets are each traveling along a straight line fixed altitude heading or are maneuvering in the azimuth plane 

 2 determining a coarse azimuth range first and using information corresponding to the coarse range to lock onto and to subsequently track the azimuth range and

 3 prompting the aircraft pilot to maneuver the aircraft in a manner that allows the computing apparatus to determine a sufficiently accurate azimuth range within a sufficiently short time window independently of the amplitudes of the passive signals received from the one or more targets.

Still referring to the computing apparatus includes a conventional electronic warfare system EWS a range finder an aircraft position determiner and a controller .

The EWS may be conventional and is configured to receive passive target signals from one or more targets via an antenna and to provide at least azimuth angles k and elevation angles k to the one or more targets relative to the aircraft heading k refers to the time at which the passive signals are sampled and is described below in more detail.

The first stage is configured to receive at least k and k from the EWS to receive at least the coordinates and component velocities e.g. coordinates x y and z and component velocities dot over x dot over y and of the aircraft containing the computer apparatus from the position determiner to provide seeding parameters to the second stage and includes a bank of coarse range determiners. Each coarse range determiner includes or otherwise implements a Kalman filter that assumes that an airborne target is traveling along a straight line heading in an azimuth plane and that is loaded with initial filter parameters e.g. filter coefficients and initial values for the target coordinates x y and z and component velocities dot over x dot over y and that are tuned to a respective azimuth range. For example the initial filter parameters of a first filter may be tuned to an azimuth range of ten nautical miles the initial filter parameters of a second filter may be tuned to an azimuth range of twenty nautical miles . . . and the initial filter parameters of a fifteenth and final filter may be tuned to an azimuth range of one hundred fifty nautical miles. As described in more detail below after a period of operation e.g. ten seconds of all of these coarse range filters the filter that was initially tuned to the azimuth range closest to the actual azimuth range of a target provides its filter parameters to seed the second stage .

The second stage is configured to receive at least k and k from the EWS to receive at least the coordinates and component velocities e.g. coordinates x y and z and component velocities dot over x dot over y and of the aircraft from the position determiner to receive at least the above described filter seeding parameters from the first stage and to provide estimated values for at least k k H k the percentage range error PRE k in H k and the standard deviation k in H k to the pilot of the aircraft the second stage may also provide e.g. a slant range and the PRE and the standard deviation in the slant range . k and k may be more accurate than k and k from the EWS because k and k may have reduced levels of noise and other errors due to the filtering action of the second stage this may also be true for any other estimates of EWS measurements that the second stage provides . Furthermore one or more of the estimates output by the second stage may be further filtered smoothed by a filter such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 filed 6 Jul. 2009 titled QUANTITY SMOOTHER and which is incorporated by reference before providing these estimates to e.g. a display for viewing by the pilot. The second stage is further described below in conjunction with .

And the turn determiner is configured to determine in response to the azimuth angle k a turn direction that the pilot of the aircraft can make to speed convergence of the first and or second stages and to sufficiently accurate values for k k H k PRE k and k . Determining the turn direction is further discussed below in conjunction with .

Still referring to the position determiner is configured to determine at least the coordinates and component velocities e.g. coordinates x y and z and component velocities dot over x dot over y and of the aircraft containing the computing apparatus at regular intervals e.g. 200 Hz . For example the position determiner may include global positioning satellite GPS hardware that implements a GPS technique to make these determinations. Furthermore using e.g. a GPS technique or an onboard gyroscope the position determiner may also determine and provide to the range finder a spatial orientation of the aircraft in terms of spatial orientation components such as pitch yaw and roll.

And the controller is configured to control the EWS range finder and position determiner and may also be configured to control one or more other components of the computing apparatus . For example the controller may include one or more microprocessors or microcontrollers.

The EWS range finder position determiner controller and other components of the computing apparatus may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination of two or more of hardware software and firmware. For example one or more of the EWS range finder and position determine may be implemented in software that the controller executes or may be formed by respective electronic circuits.

Still referring to alternate embodiments of the computing apparatus are contemplated. For example the stages and of the range finder may implement algorithms other than Kalman filter algorithms. Furthermore the position determiner may provide aircraft position indicators such as acceleration components umlaut over x and umlaut over z in addition to the position indicators described above.

The second stage includes first and second Kalman filters and a model probabilities updater a states and covariances combiner an estimate generator and a states and covariances modifier . Although each of these components may implement a respective one or more complex mathematical functions the below description eschews a complex mathematical description in lieu of a functional description it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art of Kalman filtering would understand the mathematics that give rise to the described functions.

The first Kalman filter is configured to model a detected target as traveling in a straight line at a constant velocity and at a level altitude from one sample time k to another sample time k because years of empirical data indicate that except when maneuvering an aircraft and other airborne targets spend the vast majority of their flight times in straight constant velocity level flight. Put another way the first filter is configured to assume that the target is flying in a straight constant velocity level flight path at least between consecutive sample times k. Each sample time k corresponds to the times e.g. five to ten sample times k per second when the EWS receives and processes respective passive signals from the target and generates e.g. a value for k and a value for k in response to each of these processed signals. Typically the intervals between sample times k are approximately constant but this is not required for the first filter to operate as described.

Because the first filter is configured to model the target s flight path as being straight constant velocity and level between consecutive sample times k the first filter is configured to model the position and velocity of the target itself with the following six state variables which the first filter is configured to update at each sample time k target position coordinates x y and z and target velocity components dot over x dot over y and . These state variables form the elements of a first Kalman state vector right arrow over s k .

The first filter is configured to update the model of the target s flight path e.g. update the modeled heading velocity and or altitude of the target s flight path in response to the measured azimuth angle k from the EWS . At each sample time k the first filter is configured to update the values of the elements of the state vector right arrow over s k for the target based on the model to determine a modeled value for the azimuth angle to the target in response to the updated state vector right arrow over s k and to compare the modeled value of the azimuth angle with the value of the azimuth angle k measured by the EWS . The difference between the modeled azimuth angle value and the measured azimuth value k represents an error between the actual position of the target and the modeled position of the target at sample time k. In response to this azimuth angle error the first filter is configured to modify the model of the target s flight path e.g. to modify the heading velocity and or altitude of the modeled flight path in a way that should tend to reduce the azimuth angle error at the next sample time k. But the first filter is configured to implement in effect an error correction loop that has a relatively low bandwidth which means that the error correction loop is configured to modify the model relatively slowly in response to a nonzero azimuth angle error. Or put in Kalman filter terms the first filter has a covariance matrix C k which effectively represents the error in each of the state variables that form the state vector right arrow over s k which the first filter updates at each sample time k in response to the azimuth angle error per above and also has a matrix Q k by which the covariance matrix C k is multiplied to generate values for modifying the target s flight path model so as to reduce the azimuth angle error. So that the first filter is configured to modify the flight path model relatively slowly per above the elements of Q k are relatively small and in an embodiment may be close to zero. Modifying the modeled flight path relatively slowly allows for example the first filter to filter noise from the measured values of k from the EWS . The first filter may be configured to modify the elements of Q k in response to the intervals between sample times k. For example the shorter this interval the larger the first filter may be configured to make the elements of Q k and the larger this interval the smaller the first filter may make the elements of Q k so as prevent instability in the filtering algorithm. The first filter may also be similarly configured to modify the model of the target s flight path in response to the modeled elevation values k and the measured elevation values k although in an embodiment the first filter is configured to monitor these elevation values only to discriminate multiple targets by their elevation angle relative to the aircraft as described below in conjunction with . A reason for this is that the elevation angle k may change too slowly for the first filter to track the effect of the rate of change in an angle on the convergence of the second stage is described below in conjunction with .

The first Kalman filter is also configured to generate the following two probability indicators at each sample time k Prob  k which is a scalar and P k which is a matrix.

The value of Prob  k indicates the likelihood that at sample time k the target is on the modeled flight path. For example if the above described azimuth error is below a first threshold then the value of Prob  k may indicate a relatively high likelihood that the target is on the modeled flight path at the sample time k alternatively if the above described azimuth error is above a second threshold then the value of Prob  k may indicate a relatively low likelihood that the target is on the modeled flight path at the sample time k.

And the values of the elements of the matrix P k indicate the likelihoods of the following four scenarios 

1 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the first filter and will stay on this flight path between sample times k and k 1 

2 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the first filter but will shift to a flight path modeled by the second filter this modeled flight path is discussed below between the sample times k and k 1 

3 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the second filter and will stay on this flight path between sample times k and k 1 and

4 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the second filter but will shift to the flight path modeled by the first filter between the sample times k and k 1.

In addition to receiving k and k from the EWS the first filter also receives as described above initial i.e. seed parameters from the Kalman filter of the first stage associated with an azimuth range that most closely corresponds to the azimuth range of the target. These parameters include initial values for the elements of the state vector right arrow over s k for the elements of the covariance matrix C k and for other variables such as filter coefficients. These seed values may allow the first filter to converge its model of the target s flight path to the actual flight path of the target more quickly than it would without these seed values therefore these seed values aid the second stage in converging to a value of H k that is sufficiently accurate within a time window that is sufficiently short for a pilot to take appropriate action regarding a target.

The second Kalman filter is configured to model a detected target as turning i.e. maneuvering in an azimuth plane and at a level altitude from one sample time k to another sample time k because as indicated by years of empirical data when an aircraft and other airborne targets are not in straight constant velocity level flight they are typically maneuvering to change their headings. Put another way unlike the first filter the second filter is configured to assume that the target is maneuvering at least between consecutive sample times k. As discussed above although the intervals between sample times k are typically approximately constant this is not required for the second filter to operate as described.

The second filter models the target as having a curved level flight path between sample times k with the same six state variables x y and z and dot over X dot over y and with which the first filter models the target as having a straight level and constant velocity flight path. These state variables form the elements of a second Kalman state vector right arrow over s k .

The second filter is configured to update the model of the target s flight path e.g. to update the modeled heading velocity and or altitude of the target s flight path in response to the measured azimuth angle k from the EWS . At each sample time k the second filter is configured to update the values of the elements of the state vector right arrow over s k for the target based on the model to determine a modeled value for the azimuth angle to the target in response to the updated state vector right arrow over s k and to compare the modeled value of the azimuth angle with the value k measured by the EWS . The difference between the modeled azimuth angle value and the measured azimuth value k represents an error between the actual position of the target and the modeled position of the target at sample time k. In response to this error the second filter is configured to modify the model of the target s flight path e.g. to modify the heading velocity and or altitude of the modeled flight path in a way that should tend to reduce the azimuth angle error at the next sample time k. But unlike the first filter the second filter is configured to implement in effect an error correction loop that has a relatively moderate to high bandwidth which means that the error correction loop is configured to modify the model relatively quickly in response to a nonzero azimuth angle error. Or put in Kalman filter terms the second filter has a covariance matrix C k which effectively represents the error in each of the state variables that form the state vector right arrow over s k at sample time k and which is updated at each sample time k in response to the azimuth angle error per above and also has a matrix Q k by which C k is multiplied to generate values for modifying the target s flight path model so as to reduce the azimuth angle error. So that the second filter can modify the flight path model relatively quickly per above the elements of Q k are relatively moderate to large. Modifying the modeled flight path relatively quickly allows for example the second filter to track the flight path of the maneuvering target. Because the target is changing its heading it is more important for the second filter to track the target s flight path until it returns to a straight constant velocity and level flight path than it is for the second filter to filter noise from the measured values k from the EWS . The second filter may be configured to modify the elements of Q k in response to the intervals between sample times k. For example the shorter this interval the larger the second filter may be configured to make the elements of Q k and the larger this interval the smaller the first filter may make the elements of Q k so as prevent instability in the filtering algorithm. The second filter may also be similarly configured to modify the model of the target s flight path in response to the modeled elevation values k and the measured elevation values k although in an embodiment the second filter is configured to monitor these elevation values only to discriminate multiple targets by their elevation angles relative to the aircraft as described below in conjunction with . A reason for this is that the elevation angle k may change too slowly over a short time interval e.g. from sample k to sample k for the second filter to track.

The second Kalman filter also generates the following two probability indicators at each sample time k Prob  k which is a scalar and P k which is a matrix.

The value of Prob  k indicates the likelihood that at sample time k the target is on the flight path modeled by the second Kalman filter . For example if the above described azimuth error is below a first threshold then the value of Prob  k may indicate a relatively high likelihood that the target is on the modeled flight path at the sample time k alternatively if the above described azimuth error is above a second threshold then the value of Prob  k may indicate a relatively low likelihood that the target is on the modeled flight path at the sample time k.

And the values of the elements of the matrix P k indicate the likelihoods of the following four scenarios which are the same scenarios described above in conjunction with the matrix P k of the first filter 

1 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the first filter and will stay on this flight path between sample times k and k 1 

2 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the first filter but will shift to a flight path modeled by the second filter between the sample times k and k 1 

3 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the second filter and will stay on this flight path between sample times k and k 1 and

4 the target is currently on the flight path modeled by the second filter but will shift to the flight path modeled by the first filter between the sample times k and k 1.

Even though the matrices P k and P k indicate the probabilities of the same four scenarios the values of the elements of P k are typically different than the values of the elements of P k at least because the first and second filters and implement different filtering algorithms.

Furthermore in addition to receiving k and k from the EWS the second filter also receives initial i.e. seed parameters from the Kalman filter of the first stage associated with an azimuth range that most closely corresponds to the azimuth range of the target. These parameters include initial values for the elements of the state vector right arrow over s k for the elements of the covariance matrix C k and for other variables such as filter coefficients. These seed values may allow the second filter to converge its model of the target s flight path to the actual flight path of the target more quickly than it would without these seed values therefore these seed values aid the second stage in converging to a value of H k that is sufficiently accurate within a time window that is sufficiently short for a pilot to take appropriate action regarding a target.

Still referring to in response to the values of Prob  and Prob  the model probabilities updater generates an indication MP k 1 of whether at sample time k the actual flight path of the target conforms more to the straight flight path modeled by the first filter or to the curved flight path modeled by the second filter . The k 1 indicates that the value of MP k 1 always corresponds to a sample time k 1 immediately prior to the current sample time k.

In response to right arrow over s k right arrow over s k P k P k and MP k 1 the states and covariances combiner effectively combines the elements of right arrow over s k and right arrow over s k in a probabilistic manner to generate a resulting state vector right arrow over s k that represents the position and velocity of the target at sample time k and combines the elements of the covariance matrices C k and C k to generate a resulting covariance matrix C k that represents the error in right arrow over s k . For example if it is more likely that the target is following the flight path modeled by the first filter then the combiner weights the value of right arrow over s k more heavily than it weights the value of right arrow over s k in the formation of right arrow over s k and weights the value of the first filter covariance matrix C k more heavily than it weights the value of the second filter covariance matrix C k in the formation of the resulting covariance matrix C k . Conversely if it is more likely that the target is following the flight path modeled by the second filter then the combiner weights the value of right arrow over s k more heavily than it weights the value of right arrow over s k in the formation of right arrow over s k and weights the value of the second filter covariance matrix C k more heavily than it weights the value of the first filter covariance matrix C k in the formation of the resulting covariance matrix C k .

Still referring to the estimate generator generates the modeled i.e. estimated values of k and k and H k in response to right arrow over s k from the combiner and in response to the coordinates of the aircraft at sample time k from the position determiner and generates the modeled values of PRE k and k in response to the resulting covariance matrix C k from the combiner.

The states and covariances modifier modifies right arrow over s k right arrow over s k C k and C k from the first and second filters and in response to MP k 1 P k and P k and provides the modified state vectors right arrow over s k 1 and right arrow over s k 1 and the modified covariance matrices C k 1 and C k 1 to the first and second filters and respectively. The first filter uses right arrow over s k 1 as the initial state vector right arrow over s k and C k 1 as the initial covariance matrix C k at the next sample time k. Likewise the second filter uses right arrow over s k 1 as the initial state vector right arrow over s k and C k 1 as the initial second covariance matrix C k at the next sample time k.

Before describing the operation of the computing apparatus of according to an embodiment described are some concepts that the computing apparatus may employ to range a target.

As described above in conjunction with it is difficult to impossible to determine passively the azimuth range from an aircraft to a target T using only readings of the azimuth angle to the target when both the aircraft and target are traveling at respective constant velocities.

But a technique that overcomes this problem has been discovered. In general it has been found that if an aircraft maneuvers so as to induce an additional derivative in the aircraft s motion relative to the target aircraft and so as to cause an azimuth angle to the target to vary over a range that is greater than 180 then a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft can determine with sufficient accuracy the azimuth range of the target within a sufficiently short time window using only azimuth angle measurements. Inducing an additional derivative of motion means for example that if the target is traveling at constant velocity such that the derivative of the target s velocity which is the target s acceleration is zero then the aircraft changes its velocity such that the derivative of the aircraft s velocity which is the aircraft s acceleration is nonzero. An embodiment of this technique is described below in conjunction with .

At a time t the aircraft is in a position Land is flying along the straight path at a constant velocity a level altitude and a heading indicated by the arrow and the azimuth angle from the aircraft to the target T is an acute angle .

And at times tand t in this example it is assumed that the intervals between successive times t are approximately equal to one another although this is not required the aircraft is in respective positions Land L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective acute angles and .

But at time t the aircraft theoretically makes a hairpin turn and begins to fly back along the straight path at a constant velocity a level altitude and a heading indicated by the arrow which heading is opposite e.g. 180 to the heading indicated by the arrow that is the aircraft theoretically reverses its heading along the same flight path.

Therefore at times t t the aircraft is in respective positions L L L and L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective angles and which are all more than 180 different from and .

But at time t the aircraft theoretically makes another hairpin turn and begins to fly back along the straight path at a constant velocity a level altitude and a heading indicated by the arrow which heading is opposite e.g. 180 to the heading indicated by the arrow but collinear with the heading indicated by the arrow that is the aircraft once again theoretically reverses its heading along the same flight path.

Therefore at times tand t the aircraft is in respective positions Land L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective angles and which are all more than 180 different from and .

It can be demonstrated mathematically that such reversing of direction by the aircraft effectively allows the computing apparatus to triangulate the flight path of the target T independently of the amplitudes of the passive signals from the target e.g. using only the azimuth angles . It can also be demonstrated that this is true even if the flight path of the aircraft has a different azimuth orientation relative to the flight path of the target T than shown in . Ideally however this technique may work best when a theoretical line from the target T to a center e.g. location L of the reversing flight path of the aircraft makes a right angle with the reversing flight path.

Still referring to although the aircraft reversing directions along the flight path may allow the first filter of to eventually converge its model of the target T s flight path to the target s actual flight path this convergence may take so long that there may be insufficient time remaining for the pilot of the aircraft to take appropriate action regarding the target.

While the aircraft is flying straight along the headings and the differences between successive ones of the azimuth angles and e.g. the difference between the azimuth angles may be relatively small which may cause the azimuth error e.g. the difference between the measured azimuth angle k and the modeled azimuth angle to also be relatively small. Because effective loop bandwidth of the first filter is relatively low to filter out noise as described above in conjunction with small azimuth errors may cause the first filter to make only small changes in the target s model flight path therefore the smaller the differences between successive ones of the azimuth angles the longer the time that the first filter may need to converge its model flight path to the target s actual flight path.

Consequently causing the differences between these successive azimuth angles along the non turn portions of the path to be larger may speed the convergence the model flight path of the first filter to the target s actual flight path and thus reduce the time that the second stage needs to provide a sufficiently accurate value of H k .

One way to increase the differences between these successive azimuth angles along the non turn portions of the path is to vary the speed of the aircraft e.g. sinusoidally as it traverses these non turn portions of the path.

And another way to increase the differences between these successive azimuth angles is to make the theoretical hairpin turns described above more gradual e.g. sinusoidal.

As described below in conjunction with it has been found that maneuvering an aircraft through a sinusoidal or a quasi sinusoidal flight path induces an additional derivative in the aircraft s motion relative to a target causes an azimuth angle to the target to vary over a range that is greater than 180 and yields relatively large differences between successive azimuth angles such that the stage of can yield estimates of H k accurate enough and fast enough to allow a pilot sufficient time to take appropriate action regarding the target.

Before entering the flight path it is assumed that the aircraft not shown in is flying along a straight level path at a heading .

Next the pilot causes the aircraft to enter the flight path by maneuvering the aircraft through a sinusoidal right turn and then maneuvering the aircraft through a sinusoidal left turn until the aircraft is back on the heading although not shown the pilot may continue the left turn until the aircraft is back on its original path .

Although the flight path includes curves a projection of the flight path in a single dimension approximates one leg e.g. from the left end to the right end of the reversing overlapping flight path of and thus may allow azimuth ranging of a target according to the concepts described above in conjunction with .

The flight path may allow the computing apparatus to better range a target than if the aircraft merely turned to follow a straight path along the projection because the flight path is sinusoidal and thus causes the aircraft s velocity component along the projection to vary even if the aircraft is traveling at a constant speed.

Therefore even though the flight path does not reverse itself along the projection it can be shown mathematically that the changes in velocity induced by the flight path may allow the computing apparatus to determine the flight path of the target according to the concepts described above in conjunction with .

Furthermore the time window needed by the computing apparatus to range the target within a specified range of accuracy when an aircraft follows the path may depend on the orientation of the projection to the target not shown in .

Moreover the ranging time window may depend on the spatial frequency i.e. tightness of the turns and . It has been found that the more gradual the turns typically the shorter the time window because the velocity of the aircraft is changing over a longer time period. In contrast the tighter the turns typically the longer the time window because the velocity of the aircraft is changing over a shorter time period. For example the reversing hairpin turns described above in conjunction of are theoretically turns with infinite tightness in which case there is only one sudden velocity change caused by each reversal of direction. Therefore although ranging a target is theoretically possible using such theoretical infinitely tight turns the ranging time window is significantly shorter if these theoretical sudden turns are in actuality made more gradual e.g. like the turns and so that the changes between consecutive measured azimuth angles are significantly larger than the noise floor and are otherwise large enough to cause an azimuth error large enough for the Kalman filters and to use for updating their target flight path models.

The tightness of the turns and may depend on a number of factors such as the speed of the aircraft the number of G s the pilot wants can pull and the pilot s experience either actual or simulated as to what type of turns best speed ranging convergence in a given target ranging situation.

Before entering the flight path it is assumed that the aircraft not shown in is flying along a straight level path at a heading . Next the pilot causes the aircraft to enter the flight path by maneuvering the aircraft through a sinusoidal right turn to a straight leg and then maneuvering the aircraft from the straight leg through a sinusoidal left turn to another straight leg . While on the straight legs and the aircraft is traveling at a constant velocity according to an embodiment although the aircraft may vary its speed along these straight legs. Furthermore although not shown the pilot may maneuver the aircraft from the straight leg through another sinusoidal right turn until the aircraft is back on the heading or back on the path too.

A single dimension projection of the flight path approximates two legs e.g. from the left end to the right end and overlapping back toward the center of the reversing overlapping flight path of therefore the flight path may allow azimuth ranging of a target according to the concepts described above in conjunction with .

The flight path may allow better ranging than the flight path of because in addition to inducing velocity changes along the projection the fight path also induces a direction reversal indicated by the arrows and along the projection.

Furthermore the ranging effectiveness of the path may depend on the orientation of the projection to the target not shown in the tightness of the turns and and the lengths of the straight legs and .

Referring to other embodiments of flight paths with turns are contemplated. For example a flight path may have only a single turn or more than two turns. Furthermore the single dimension projections may be oriented other than from the beginning of the first curve to the end of the last curve. In yet another embodiment the aircraft may change its speed e.g. sinusoidally but stay on its original straight level flight path.

The computing apparatus distinguishes the targets T Tfrom one another so that it does not confuse the passive signals from one target with the passive signals from another target such confusion could result in incorrect tracking of one or more of the targets or even could result in the failure to recognize the existence of one or more of the targets.

The computing apparatus may be configured to distinguish the targets T Tfrom one another based on the respective elevation angle k of each target relative to the aircraft or based on the altitude of each target.

Or the computing apparatus may be configured to distinguish the targets T Tbased on the respective pulse descriptor word PDW that each target transmits as part of the signals passively received by the aircraft the PDW is e.g. a digital value unique to the target transmitting it.

Or the computing apparatus may be configured to distinguish the targets T Tfrom one another based on the respective azimuth angle k or azimuth range H k of each target.

Still referring to alternate embodiments for distinguishing and tracking multiple targets are contemplated. For example the computing apparatus may be configured to simultaneously use two or more of the above described techniques to distinguish the targets T Tfrom one another. Furthermore the computing apparatus may be configured to use one or more other conventional techniques to distinguishing the targets T Tfrom one another. Moreover the computing apparatus may be configured to distinguish fewer or more than three targets.

The operation of the computing apparatus of is described now in conjunction with according to an embodiment. In this example the computing apparatus is configured to provide a value for H k having a first specified value for PRE k e.g. 15 within a first specified time window e.g. 20 seconds and to provide a value for H k having a second specified value for PRE k e.g. 5 within a second specified time window e.g. 10 seconds after the end of the first time window . But if the target T maneuvers within one of these time windows then the current time window may be suspended until the target comes out of the maneuver.

Referring to at a time t the aircraft is flying along a straight path at a first constant velocity and at a first level altitude and the target T is flying along a straight path at a second constant velocity and at a second level altitude.

At a time t the EWS detects a signal emanating from the target T conventionally confirms that the target T is a target that the EWS should track and generates values for at least k and k . The EWS continues to update the values for at least k and k at each sample time k i.e. each time that the EWS receives a signal from the target T e.g. nominally between about 2 times to 10 times per second 2 Hz 10 Hz .

In response to the first value for k the turn determiner prompts the pilot e.g. via a display not shown in to maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path through a two turn or more than two turn flight path such that a single dimension projection of this two turn flight path is approximately perpendicular to and approximately centered about the target T i.e. is approximately perpendicular to a straight line drawn from the target to the center of the single dimension projection .

Alternatively the turn determiner may automatically maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path through the two turn flight path via e.g. a conventional auto pilot system not shown in onboard the aircraft .

In still yet another alternative the turn determiner may not prompt the pilot to maneuver the aircraft and may not automatically maneuver the aircraft until the second stage of the range finder receives and loads the seed values from the first stage of the range finder.

Also in response to the first value for k and the current coordinates and velocity of the aircraft from the position determiner each Kalman filter in the first stage of the range finder begins to track the target T for a specified period of time e.g. 10 seconds .

At a time t the pilot begins to maneuver the aircraft through the flight path to help speed the convergence of at least one of the Kalman filters in the first stage .

At a time t the first stage Kalman filter yielding the smallest residuals between the values of k from the EWS and the azimuth angles estimated by this Kalman filter provides the most recent values of its filter parameters e.g. state vector right arrow over s k covariance matrix C k filter coefficients to the second stage as parameter seed values. Although the time tis shown in as occurring while the pilot is maneuvering the aircraft through the turn flight path tmay instead occur before the pilot starts maneuvering the aircraft or after the pilot completes the maneuver.

At or shortly after the time t the first and second Kalman filters and of the second stage of the range finder load the seed values from the first stage and begin to track the target T in response to at least the values of k from the EWS and the coordinates and velocity components of the aircraft from the position determiner .

During the interval between approximately tand t because the target T is flying straight at a constant velocity and at a level altitude the first filter tracks the target more accurately than the second filter because as discussed above the first filter models the target s flight path as being straight level and constant velocity and the second filter models the target as turning therefore the states and covariances combiner weights right arrow over s k and C k more heavily than it weights right arrow over s k and C k in its calculation of right arrow over s k and C k .

But during the interval between tand t because the target T is maneuvering e.g. turning the second filter tracks the target more accurately than the first filter therefore the states and covariances combiner weights right arrow over s k and C k more heavily than it weights right arrow over s k and C k in its calculation of right arrow over s k and C k .

Then during the interval between tand t because the target T resumes flying straight at a constant velocity and at a level altitude the first filter again tracks the target T more accurately than the second filter therefore the states and covariances combiner again weights right arrow over s k and C k more heavily than it weights right arrow over s k and C k in the generation of right arrow over s k and C k .

At two points not shown in between tand t the range finder meets the above described criterion for providing specified values of H k having specified ranges of PRE k within specified time windows. The exact locations of the two points between tand tdepends on the time lapse between tand t. If one of these windows occurs between times tand t then the range finder suspends the window until after the maneuver is complete at time t there may be some latency between when the maneuver is started completed and when the range finder detects that the maneuver is started completed

The first and second Kalman filters and continue operating in the above described manner until the target T is out of a danger range relative to the aircraft the pilot destroys the target or the pilot indicates that he she wishes the computing apparatus to track the target no longer.

While the states and covariances combiner is generating right arrow over s k and C k the estimate generator is generating values for k k H k PRE k and k and a display not shown in is displaying one or more of these values to the pilot.

In an embodiment the pilot can determine the azimuth range within approximately 99 accuracy by mentally computing the azimuth range equal to H k m k where m is an arbitrary factor whose value depends e.g. on the design of the computing apparatus . For example m 3 in an embodiment.

Furthermore the first and second Kalman filters and may provide sufficiently accurate values for right arrow over s k and C k even if the EWS introduces angle bias i.e. a non random bias error into k and or k .

Still referring to alternate embodiments of the computing apparatus are contemplated. For example the turn determiner may be configured to instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into the turn flight path at a different relative time such as after the second stage receives the seed values from the first stage and begins tracking the target T. Or the turn determiner may be configured to instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into multiple turned flight paths that are separated by straight flight paths for example to speed the convergence of the second stage to an accurate model of the target T s flight path. Furthermore although shown as returning the aircraft to the original flight path after the turn flight path the pilot may return the aircraft to another flight path.

Although concepts related to the ranging of an airborne target from an aircraft such as a tactical fighter aircraft TFA are described above in conjunction with it is sometimes desirable that a pilot also be able to range passively a ground based target from an aircraft to a desired accuracy within a specified time window and e.g. independently of the amplitudes of the passive signals received from the target.

Therefore an embodiment of a technique for ranging a ground based target from an airborne object such as an aircraft is described below in conjunction with .

Next from a point of known coordinates one measures an angle b to the target T and he she also measures the straight line distance C between the points and .

Therefore from the measured values of the angles a and b one can determine the angle c from equation 2 and from the angles a b c and the distance C one can determine the distances A and B and thus can determine the coordinates of the target T because the target is ground based its z coordinate is known so only its x and y coordinates which locate the target in the azimuth plane need be determined .

A technique that allows an aircraft to determine the azimuth range of a ground based target by effectively triangulating the location of the target in an azimuth plane has been developed. In general it has been found that if an aircraft maneuvers so as to induce an additional derivative in the aircraft s motion relative to the ground based target and to cause an azimuth angle to the target to vary over a range that is greater than 180 then a computing apparatus onboard the aircraft can determine with sufficient accuracy the azimuth range of the target within a sufficiently short time window using only azimuth angle measurements. Inducing an additional derivative of motion means for example that if the target is stationary such that the derivative of the target s position which is the target s velocity is zero then the aircraft changes its position such that the derivative of the aircraft s position which is the aircraft s velocity is nonzero. An embodiment of this technique is described below in conjunction with .

At a time t the aircraft is in a position Land is flying along the path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude at a heading indicated by the arrow and the azimuth angle from the aircraft to the target T is an angle .

And at times t t the aircraft is in respective positions L L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective angles .

But at time t the aircraft theoretically makes a hairpin turn and begins to fly back along the path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude at a heading indicated by the arrow which heading is opposite e.g. 180 to the heading indicated by the arrow .

Therefore at times t t the aircraft is in respective positions L L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are the respective angles which at least theoretically are all 180 different from respectively. Furthermore at times t t the aircraft is in respective positions L L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective angles .

But at time t the aircraft theoretically makes another hairpin turn and begins to fly back along the path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude at a heading indicated by the arrow which heading is opposite e.g. 180 to the heading indicated by the arrow but is collinear with the heading indicated by the arrow .

Therefore at times t t the aircraft is in respective positions L L L L and L and the azimuth angles from the aircraft to the target T are respective angles which are each 180 different from respectively.

Therefore the aircraft has effectively created a number of triangles from which an onboard computing apparatus may via triangulation determine the azimuth coordinates of and thus the azimuth range to the target T for the angles the computing apparatus may form triangles including T as a vertex by adding or subtraction 180 from each of these angles. Furthermore it has been determined that error added to the calculated azimuth coordinates and range of the target T due to movement of the target is negligible particularly if the magnitude of the target s velocity is one order or magnitude or more below the magnitude of the aircraft s velocity.

Although technically only one such triangle is needed to compute the azimuth coordinates and thus the azimuth range of the target T the computing apparatus may effectively average the results from multiple triangles to filter e.g. noise from the result. Generally in more detail a pilot sets out on a mission to reach a location in a specified amount of time into the mission. As the pilot flies toward the target he rarely remains at a constant speed and constant heading flight path for more than a few minutes because varying his orientation helps mitigate being easily targeted because his flight path would be more predictable. Rather then the pilot initiates irregular heading changes and these changes in heading which the pilot is making anyway can help aid in passive range estimation to surface emitting targets be they stationary or slow moving because the triangles created can offer greater traversed bearing spread TBS which directly relates to a reduction in percent range error PRE i.e. improved convergence rate . There may be many emitters targets all around the aircraft as it ingresses and egresses enemy territory and there will typically be some emitters targets for which the aircraft to emitter geometries are near optimal such that ranging performance will be good as the aircraft flies its course. But there may be other surface emitters targets that are near the nose of the aircraft and therefore that may not be amenable to good range estimation convergence because the time to TBS is too long and the aircraft will be flying almost over the emitter target unprepared. So the additional occasional irregular aircraft heading changes provide an opportunity for the near nose targets to be ranged as the triangles favoring them are created. And then with the undoing of the heading change the pilot can resume in the direction desired to reach his bogey location in a timely manner all part of the flight path management function. By having the surface emitter target locations known even if they are not real concerns to the pilot these data may be immediately transmitted to other friendly aircraft via any number of ways like audibly or via the IFDL intra flight data link that intraconnects the friendly aircraft. And the same surface emitter target locations are used for egressing enemy territory as well because over a period of an hour or two the surface emitters targets in many cases don t move and those that are mobile their distances traveled isn t huge given the nature of the terrain they are traveling in many cases.

Moreover changing the velocity of the aircraft e.g. sinusoidally as it travels back and forth along the path may speed the computing apparatus s convergence to the range of the target and possible to other values having a specified accuracy within a specified time window as described above in conjunction with .

Still referring to it may be impractical to impossible for a pilot to maneuver an aircraft such as the tactical fighter aircraft of through the theoretical reversing overlapping flight path .

But a pilot may maneuver an aircraft through a sinusoidal or a quasi sinusoidal flight path that for purposes of ranging the ground based target T per the above described concepts approximates the reversing overlapping flight path for example the two turn flight paths and of may be suitable for triangulation of a ground based target in an azimuth plane within a specified accuracy and time window for reasons similar to those described for an airborne target in conjunction with .

In summary an embodiment of the computing apparatus is configured to accomplish these tasks by doing at least one of the following 

 2 prompting the aircraft pilot to maneuver the aircraft in a manner that allows the computing apparatus to determine a sufficiently accurate azimuth range independently of the amplitudes of the passive signals received from the one or more targets and within a time window that leaves the pilot enough time to take appropriate action regarding each target.

Still referring to in addition to the EWS aircraft position determiner and controller the computing apparatus includes a range finder which includes the turn determiner a Kalman filter and the estimate generator .

The EWS position determiner and controller may be configured similarly to these same respect components as described above in conjunction with .

The range finder is configured to be controlled by the controller and is configured to receive at least k and k from the EWS to receive at least the coordinates and component velocities e.g. coordinates x y and z and component velocities dot over x dot over y and of the aircraft from the position determiner and to provide estimates k k  H k the percentage range error PRE k in H k and the standard deviation k in H k to the pilot of the aircraft the filter may also provide e.g. a slant range and the PRE and the standard deviation a in the slant range . The estimates k and k may be more accurate than k and k which the EWS provides because k and k may have reduced levels of noise and other errors due to the filtering action of the range finder this may also be true for any other estimates of EWS measurements that the filter provides . Furthermore one or more of the estimates output by the range finder may be smoothed by a filter such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 310 filed 6 Jul. 2009 titled QUANTITY SMOOTER and which is incorporate by reference before providing these estimates to e.g. a display for viewing by the pilot.

The Kalman filter of the range finder may be the same as or similar to the first Kalman filter of in that the filter may model the ground based target as traveling along a straight path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude.

But differently from the first Kalman filter of the Kalman filter may be configured to model the ground based target as having a velocity of zero e.g. the target component velocities dot over x dot over y 0 and as having an altitude equal to the ground altitude e.g. in units above sea level in the geographical area in which the target is located. Alternatively the Kalman filter may be a three state filter that tracks only the target coordinates x y and z or may be a two state filter that tracks only the target coordinates x and y because z is assumed to be constant or is at least assumed to be known based on x and y and a topological map of the terrain in which the target is located . Furthermore if the EWS is configured to range the one or more targets then it may provide one or more seed values e.g. an initial value for the azimuth range H k and an initial value for k the latter of which may be used to generate initial values for the elements of the Kalman covariance matrix to the Kalman filter although the EWS may be configured to range the one or more targets it is typically unable to do so with a sufficient accuracy and within a time window short enough to allow a pilot to take appropriate action regarding the one or more targets. For example because the target is ground based z is known at least approximately such that a coarse initial value for the azimuth range H k may be determined trigonometrically in accordance with a right triangle that includes the elevation e.g. dip angle k and a base leg opposite the elevation angle and having a length approximately equal to the vertical distance between the target and the aircraft s azimuth plane. Alternatively another module may be configured to seed the Kalman filter with e.g. initial values for H k and k an example of such a module and ranging technique is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 751 875 filed 31 Mar. 2010 titled DETERMINING AT LEAST ONE COORDINATE OF AN OBJECT USING INTERSECTING SURFACES which is incorporated by reference.

Because there is only one filter and because this one filter is configured to model the target as having zero velocity the Kalman filter may have no need to generate and therefore may be configured to not generate Prob  or P k of and may be configured to generate the state vector right arrow over s k having only two x and y or three x y and z possibly non zero elements per above and may be configured to generate C k with fewer elements than C k of in response to right arrow over s k having only two or three possibly non zero elements.

The Kalman filter may be configured to update right arrow over s k and C k once each sample time k for example the filter may be configured to update right arrow over s k by effectively averaging the resulting values of right arrow over s k with the resulting values of right arrow over s from all previous sample times k.

The estimate generator is configured to generate values for k k H k PRE k and k in response to right arrow over s k and C k from the Kalman filter .

And the turn determiner is configured to determine in response to the initial value of the azimuth angle k a turn direction that the pilot of the aircraft can make to speed convergence of the range finder to sufficiently accurate values for k k H k PRE k and k . Determining the turn direction is discussed further below in conjunction with .

The EWS range finder position determiner controller and other components of the computing apparatus may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination of two or more of hardware software and firmware. For example one or more of the EWS range finder and position determine may be implemented by software that the controller executes or may be formed by respective electronic circuits controlled by the controller.

Still referring to alternate embodiments of the computing apparatus are contemplated. For example the filter may be configured to implement an algorithm other than a Kalman filter algorithm.

The operation of the computing apparatus of is described now in conjunction with according to an embodiment. In this example the computing apparatus is configured to provide a value for H k having a first specified PRE k e.g. 15 within a first specified time window e.g. 20 seconds and to provide a value for H k having a second specified PRE k e.g. 5 within a second specified time window e.g. 10 seconds after the end of the first time window where these time windows are deemed sufficient to allow a pilot to take appropriate action regarding a detected target. It is understood that for multiple targets the computing apparatus may perform a respective instance of the below described operation for each target.

Referring to at a time t the aircraft is flying along a straight path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude and the target T is moving at a velocity having a magnitude that is no more than about one order of magnitude less than the magnitude of the velocity of the aircraft.

At a time t the EWS detects a signal emitted from the target T conventionally confirms that the target T is a target that the EWS should track and generates values for at least k and k . The EWS continues to update the values for at least k and k at each sample time k i.e. each time that the EWS receives a signal from the target T e.g. nominally between about 2 Hz 10 Hz .

In response to the first value for k the turn determiner prompts the pilot e.g. via a display not shown in to maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path through a two turn or more than two turn flight path such that a single dimension projection of this two turn flight path is approximately perpendicular to and approximately centered about the target T i.e. is approximately perpendicular to a straight line drawn from the target to the center of the single dimension projection . Alternatively the turn determiner may automatically maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path through the two turn flight path via e.g. a conventional auto pilot system not shown in onboard the aircraft .

Also in response to the first value for k and the current coordinates and velocity of the aircraft from the position determiner the Kalman filter begins to track the target T by generating right arrow over s k and C k in response to at least the values of k from the EWS and the coordinates and velocity components of the aircraft from the position determiner . The Kalman filter may track range the target T using a triangulation technique such as described above in conjunction with .

Between times tand t the pilot maneuvers the aircraft through the flight path to help speed the convergence of the Kalman filter to the azimuth range to the target T from the aircraft.

At two points not shown in between times tand t the computing apparatus meets the above described criterion for providing specified values of H k within two specified ranges of PRE k and within two specified time windows. The exact locations of the two points between times tand tdepends on e.g. the time lapse between tand tand the turn flight path .

The Kalman filter continues operating in the above described manner until the pilot destroys the target T the pilot evades or flies by the target or the pilot indicates that he she wishes the computing apparatus to track the target no longer.

While the Kalman filter is generating right arrow over s k and C k the estimate generator is generating values for k k H k PRE k and k and a display not shown in is displaying one or more of these values to the pilot.

In an embodiment the pilot can determine the azimuth range to the target T within approximately 99 accuracy by mentally computing the azimuth range equal to H k m k in an embodiment m 3.

Furthermore the Kalman filter may be configured to provide sufficiently accurate values for right arrow over s k and C k even if the EWS introduces angle bias into k and or k .

Still referring to alternate embodiments of the computing apparatus are contemplated. For example the turn determiner may instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into the turn flight path at a different relative time such as after the Kalman filter begins ranging the target T. Or the turn determiner may instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into a multiple turned flight path different from the flight path . Furthermore although the flight path is shown as heading straight for the target T in the computing apparatus may be configured to range the target T even if the aircraft is flying along a different flight path with a different heading. Moreover although described as flying at a constant velocity the computing apparatus may be configured to range the target T even if the aircraft is not flying at a constant velocity. In addition although shown as returning the aircraft to the original flight path after the turn flight path the pilot may return the aircraft to another flight path. Furthermore if the target T is moving at a velocity that is more than about one order of magnitude less than the velocity of the aircraft then the Kalman filter may update four variables x y dot over x and dot over y or all six variables x y z dot over x dot over y and instead of only two variables x and y or three variables x y z as described above depending on the aircraft target relative geometry azimuth measurement accuracy and update rate but generally because the traversed distance the target travels on land sea is quite small over the few minutes to several minutes during which the computer system processes the azimuth measurements the ability to estimate well the derivative state variables may not be good although measuring the derivative state variables may be generally unnecessary as the pilot is primarily interested in the target s position on the ground so that the he may deliver weapons to the target or simply avoid the target. Moreover the turn flight path may assist the computing apparatus in acquiring and tracking more than one target.

The operation of the computing apparatus of is described now in conjunction with according to an embodiment. In this example the computing apparatus is configured to provide a value for H k having a specified PRE k e.g. 5 within a specified time window e.g. several minutes where this time window is deemed sufficient to allow a pilot to take appropriate action regarding a detected target. It is understood that for multiple targets the computing apparatus may perform a respective instance of the below described operation for each target.

Referring to at a time t the aircraft is flying along a straight path at a constant velocity and at a level altitude and the target T is moving at a velocity having a magnitude that is no more than about one order of magnitude less than the magnitude of the velocity of the aircraft.

At a time t the EWS detects a signal emitted from the target T and conventionally confirms that the target T is a target that the EWS should track and generates values for at least k and k . The EWS continues to update the values for at least k and k at each sample time k i.e. each time that the EWS receives a signal from the target T e.g. nominally between about 2 Hz to 10 Hz .

In response to a first value for k the turn determiner prompts the pilot e.g. via a display not shown in to maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path to another straight flight path such that the aircraft will traverse a bearing spread i.e. an angle Traverse Bearing Spread TBS relative to the target T in a time sufficient for the computing apparatus to provide a value for H k having the specified PRE k within the specified time window.

The value for TBS is for example a minimum value that has been deemed sufficient for the Kalman filter to converge to a value for H k having the specified PRE k and is given by the following equation 3 

where is an arbitrary initial azimuth angle that occurs after the aircraft is on the path and where and are both less than or a both greater than an odd multiple of 90 .

where Ris the initial value of the azimuth range H k to the target T at the same sample time k as k e.g. the EWS may provide Rbased on the dip angle calculation described above in conjunction with or using the technique described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 751 875 which was previously incorporated by reference .

Therefore the turn determiner is configured to prompt the pilot to turn the aircraft to another straight path such as the path that minimizes TIME or that at least renders TIME short enough to allow the Kalman filter to converge to a value for H k having the specified PRE k within the specified time window. In general the sooner such a straight path makes a 90 angle with a line in the azimuth plane to the target T the shorter TIME. But considerations such as the tightness of the turn and thus the number of G s that the pilot would need to pull the velocity of the aircraft and the time constraints of the pilot s current mission may cause the turn determiner to prompt the pilot to turn onto a straight path that does not minimize TIME or the pilot may opt to turn onto a straight path other than the path indicated by the turn determiner. Furthermore if the original path is sufficient to meet the above objectives then the turn determiner may prompt the pilot to stay on course. Alternatively the turn determiner may automatically maneuver the aircraft from the straight flight path to the straight path via e.g. a conventional auto pilot system not shown in onboard the aircraft .

Also in response to k and the current coordinates and velocity of the aircraft from the position determiner the Kalman filter begins to track the target T by generating right arrow over s k and C k in response to at least the values of k from the EWS and the coordinates and velocity components of the aircraft from the position determiner . The Kalman filter may track range the target T using a triangulation technique such as described above in conjunction with .

Between times tand t the pilot maneuvers the aircraft along the flight path to help speed the convergence of the Kalman filter to the azimuth range to the target T from the aircraft as described above.

At approximately time t the computing apparatus meets the above described criterion for providing a specified value of H k within the specified range of PRE k and within the specified time window.

The Kalman filter continues operating in the above described manner until the pilot destroys the target T the pilot evades or flies by the target or the pilot indicates that he she wishes the computing apparatus to track the target no longer.

As the pilot maneuvers the aircraft from the straight path through a turn and to another straight path then the Kalman filter may suspend tracking of the target T during the turn .

While the Kalman filter is generating right arrow over s k and C k the estimate generator is generating values for k k H k PRE k and k and a display not shown in is displaying one or more of these values to the pilot.

In an embodiment the pilot can determine the azimuth range to the target T within approximately 99 accuracy by mentally computing the azimuth range equal to H k m k in an embodiment m 3.

Furthermore the Kalman filter may be configured to provide sufficiently accurate values for right arrow over s k and C k even if the EWS introduces angle bias into k and or k .

Still referring to alternate embodiments of the computing apparatus are contemplated. For example the turn determiner may instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into the turn flight path at a different relative time such as after the Kalman filter begins ranging the target T. Or the turn determiner may instruct the pilot to maneuver the aircraft into a straight flight path different from the flight path . Furthermore although the flight path is shown as heading straight for the target T in the computing apparatus may be configured to range the target T even if the aircraft is flying along a different initial flight path with a different heading. Moreover although described as flying at a constant velocity the computing apparatus may be configured to range the target T even if the aircraft is not flying at a constant velocity. In addition although shown as returning the aircraft to a flight path that is different from the original flight path the pilot may return the aircraft to the original flight path.

Referring again to although the entity that ranges a target has been described as a manually piloted aircraft it is contemplated that one or more other entities such as unmanned vehicles may employ one or more of the above described targeting techniques and systems. Other examples of such other entities include manned and unmanned spacecraft manned and unmanned water craft manned and unmanned land craft and manned an unmanned tunneling craft.

For example one or more branches of the Armed Services may conduct an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV program for surveillance targeting or general situation awareness. 

And one or more of the same techniques and systems described above in conjunction with may be applicable to a UAV platform a major difference being that there is no pilot aboard the platform but instead there are one or more remote pilots e.g. on the ground watching the flight path of the UAV and guiding the UAV to its designated region for targeting and surveillance etc. via remote control. On such a UAV there may be one or more camera sensors and these coupled with a passive EW electronic warfare sensing ability may allow a UAV to perform ranging and gathering of data on surface emitters targets e.g. stationary and slow moving that aid the mission commander in gathering important data. Other differences between a piloted aircraft and a UAV may include reduced angle measurement accuracies of the sensors aboard the UAV and the speed at which the UAV travels. Regarding the latter some UAVs travel faster than piloted aircraft and other UAVs may travel more slowly e.g. at half the nominal speed of a piloted fighter aircraft. Such reduced angle measurement accuracy and reduced speed may result in a UAV taking a longer time to range an emitter target such as a surface emitter target because the amount of TBS traversed bearing spread is typically lower for the slower UAV platform. But the stealth aspects of such a slower UAV may allow it extra time to loiter in an area to gather a sufficient number of angle measurements to traverse the bearing spread and thus to range to an emitter target.

Furthermore the percentage range error PRE k in H k is typically a function of the number of noisy angle measurements the angle measurement accuracy and the TBS. Therefore a technique similar to those described above for piloted aircraft may be used to speed up the ranging convergence such as by using any form of k sensor aboard a UAV to determine an initial dip angle range which can be used to seed a 2 or 3 state Kalman filter such that the filter converges more quickly to the range e.g. azimuth or dip angle of the emitter target.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Furthermore where an alternative is disclosed for a particular embodiment this alternative may also apply to other embodiments even if not specifically stated.

