---

title: Methods and systems for displaying text using RSVP
abstract: Various embodiments are disclosed that relate to serially displaying text on an electronic display. In some embodiments, a user device displays a notification marker/icon representing a notification event associated with an application by displaying the notification marker/icon with an icon representing the application. The notification marker/icon further represents a presence of content that is displayable using RSVP. The communications device receives a user interface action to select the notification event, and in response to the user interface action, displays textual content associated with the notification event in a designated display area using RSVP.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632661&OS=09632661&RS=09632661
owner: Spritz Holding LLC
number: 09632661
owner_city: Park City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130822
---
This application is a divisional of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 730 163 filed on Dec. 28 2012. The content of that application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to apparatuses and methods for enabling improved display of textual content on an electronic display.

Communications devices including PCs smartphones tablets e readers etc. continue to grow in popularity and have become an integral part of both personal and business communications. As a result users continue to spend more time using their communications devices during the course of a day reading e mails reading web sites sending short message service SMS messages etc. The use of a communications device and particularly a mobile communications device for such functions however may present certain inconveniences to a user. For example the display area of a mobile communications device may be limited which may increase the time spent reading an e mail or web site as the user may have to scroll through multiple pages to read the entire e mail or web site. Moreover despite heavy technological digital advances the illustration of textual information on electronic displays has not fundamentally changed. Textual information is typically displayed in lines such that the reader s eye moves sequentially from word to word.

Rapid Serial Visual Presentation RSVP is a method of displaying textual content in which each word of the textual content is displayed in sequential order one at a time at a certain display rate at a fixed location on a display. RSVP was first introduced in the 1970s as a technique for presenting text one word at a time in a display. Many references since then have provided information on the use of RSVP in a variety of applications. Commercially available products based on RSVP include Zap Reader www.zapreader.com reader and Spreeder www.spreeder.com . Some prior methods exist for improving the effectiveness of an RSVP by varying the display time of a word in the display based on word length and word type see U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 968 to McIan et al. McIan and based on word frequency see WO 37256 by Goldstein et al. Goldstein 2002 . While these techniques are beneficial in improving comprehension of the displayed text new techniques and methods are needed to further increase a user s reading speed and improve the presentation of dense content on electronic displays.

Isolated efforts have also been made to apply RSVP to particular applications e.g. email application in mobile communications devices see US 2011 0115819 to Hanson . However the challenges and opportunities for integrating RSVP into user interfaces for increasing the density of displayable content remain largely unexplored.

Previous implementations of Rapid Serial Visual Presentation RSVP do not address using RSVP to improve user access to information from a homescreen e.g. a homescreen of a smartphone running a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Phone or a desktop screen of a PC laptop etc. running an operating system such as Windows or Mac OS or a homescreen desktop screen of an intermediate portable device such as notepad touchpad etc running a corresponding operating system all referenced herein as simply a homescreen for simplicity user interface or how to best integrate RSVP into a variety of applications. Given the increasing reliance on small screen devices particularly mobile communication devices but also notebook computers and other highly portable computing devices for a variety of purposes there is a growing need to efficiently utilize screen space within user interfaces. Moreover even with respect to larger screen devices there are unexplored opportunities to create more efficient interfaces by incorporating RSVP techniques. Embodiments of the invention relate to electronic interfaces that effectively utilize RSVP to improve user access to information.

In one embodiment a communications device displays a first icon representing a notification event associated with an application by displaying the first icon with an icon representing the application. The first icon further represents a presence of content that is displayable using RSVP. The communications device receives a first user interface action to select the notification event and in response to the first user interface action displays textual content associated with the notification event in a designated display area using RSVP. The RSVP content may contain embedded text a uniform resource locator URL or an attachment. If the user selects embedded text the RSVP content corresponding to the embedded text may be displayed in the designated display area using RSVP. In one embodiment if the user selects a URL the contents of the webpage corresponding to the URL may be displayed in the designated display area using RSVP. Alternatively the webpage may be displayed by a browser application. If the user selects an attachment an application associated with the attachment may be launched to open the attachment. For example if the attachment is a photo a photo viewer application may be launched to open the photo.

In another embodiment the communications device displays a first icon within an application interface. The first icon represents presence of textual content that is displayable using RSVP. The communications device receives a first user interface action to select the first icon and in response to the first user interface action displays the textual content in a designated display area using RSVP. In an alternative to this embodiment an application interface is configurable so that any selectable item within the application interface that is associated with textual content may have that content displayed using RSVP when the item is selected.

In yet another embodiment a search query is received by at least one server computer. At least one search result corresponding to the search query is transmitted to a browser application for display in the browser application on a user device. The search result is configured to be displayed by the browser application with an icon representing presence of content corresponding to the at least one search result that is displayable using RSVP.

In yet another embodiment textual information to be displayed as part of an online advertisement is received by at least one server computer. The textual information is configured to be displayable using RSVP. The configured text is transmitted to a user device in response to a request for an online advertisement.

In yet another embodiment RSVP content may be embedded in a map photo diagram presentation etc. A map photo diagram or presentation may be displayed by the appropriate application. A user may specify whether to add global RSVP content and or local RSVP content. If the user chooses to add global e.g. in reference to a document in its entirety RSVP content an interface which allows the user to add the global RSVP content may be displayed. If the user chooses to add local RSVP content an interface which allows the user to specify location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding local RSVP content may be displayed. For example the user may specify locations on photos maps etc. specify elements or objects in photos diagrams and presentations etc. In one embodiment the interface may also allow selection of text such that RSVP content may be associated with the selected text. In the case of a photo in addition to specifying locations on the photo the user may select areas of the photo such as for example a face of a person.

In yet another embodiment RSVP content may be embedded in a spreadsheet in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. RSVP content may be embedded as a comment on any cell in a spreadsheet. To embed RSVP content a cell may be selected. Once selected an interface which allows the user to input textual content may be displayed. In addition the user may specify a sequence number for the comment. The user input text may be subsequently displayable using RSVP. In one embodiment the content of every cell and or every comment corresponding to a cell may be displayable using RSVP. Optionally a notification marker icon may be displayed indicating the presence of content or a comment including RSVP content. In another embodiment a similar process may be used to embed RSVP content in a word processing application. For example text may be selected and a corresponding comment may be input by a user. The comment may then be embedded in the word processing document and may subsequently be displayed in a DRDA using RSVP upon user selection of the comment.

The present description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various example embodiments are shown. However many different example embodiments may be used and thus the description should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. Various modifications to the exemplary embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Referring now to there is shown a diagram of an illustrative computer system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. In this embodiment the text display system is implemented on an end user device which is configured by computer program product in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. Computer program product may be provided in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium however in a particular embodiment it is provided in a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. persistent i.e. non volatile storage volatile memory e.g. random access memory or various other well known non transitory computer readable mediums .

End user device includes a display . In some embodiments display may be configured to accept touch input. Computer program product configures device to serially present text in a designated Rapid Serial Visual Presentation RSVP display area on display for convenience referenced herein simply as DRDA . User device may include any type of electronic device capable of controlling text display. Some examples include desktop computers and portable electronic devices such as mobile phones smartphones multi media players e readers tablet touchpad notebook or laptop PCs and other communication devices. In some implementations e.g. a smart phone or e reader the display may be packaged together with the rest of device . However in other implementations a separate display device e.g. a monitor maybe be attached to device . While the illustrated embodiment shows a graphical border around DRDA DRDA simply refers to a region e.g. a window on display where text is serially presented in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention and in particular implementations DRDA may or may not be outlined by a graphical border.

In one embodiment user device has typical computer components including a processor memory and an input output subsystem. In some implementations e.g. a smart phone or e reader user device may include a wireless transceiver and one or more input interfaces including a touch enabled display a trackball keyboard microphone etc. In the illustrated embodiment computer program product is loaded into memory not separately shown to configure device in accordance with the present invention. In one embodiment text data may be loaded into memory for text processing and display processing by device as will be further described herein. Text data loaded into memory for text processing and display processing may be retrieved from persistent storage on a user device such as device and or may be received from one or more server computers through a connection to Network e.g. the Internet . One or more server computers may be for example one or more advertiser computers one or more search engine computers one or more web servers one or more application servers etc. In an alternative embodiment at least some processing pre processing of text data for display in accordance with the principles illustrated herein may be carried out by one or more remote computers such as server computers and then sent to end user device for display in DRDA on display . In such an alternative some or all of a computer program product such as computer program product for implementing an embodiment of the present invention may reside on one or more computers such as server computers that are remote from end user device . In some embodiments the entire computer program product may be stored and executed on remote computers and the results presented within a browser application component e.g. a media player application of user device browser application and media player application not separately shown .

In an embodiment of the invention text which includes for example strings of characters e.g. letters numbers symbols etc. which constitute words numeric figures and combinations of both with punctuation marks and symbols is presented serially for example one word at a time within DRDA . As referenced herein a display element will refer to a group of text data that is displayed at one time within DRDA . In other words display elements are displayed serially. In the primary embodiment discussed herein a display element will generally consist of one word. However in alternative embodiments two words may be presented as a single display element. Also in the primary embodiment two words are sometimes part of a single display element such as for example when a number e.g. 9 is displayed together with a unit e.g. feet so that for example the text 9 feet may constitute a single display element and be presented together.

In a conventional RSVP system each word is centered in the display area and the optimal fixation position shifts as words of differing lengths are sequentially displayed resulting in saccade movements as the eyes shift to the optimal fixation position. The reader has to refocus on the display every time a new word appears that is of a different length than the previous word. The reader s eyes will move from one character to the next to find the optimal position which is also referred to as a recovery saccade. In addition when a longer word follows a shorter one the saccadic movement direction will be from right to left. When reading text in lines in a traditional paragraph display most saccadic movement is from left to right so the reader is accustomed to this type of eye movement. Only occasionally if the optimal fixation position is not found directly the reader may have to move back from right to left. Thus conventional RSVP forces the reader to experience saccades which are not normal. Conventional RSVP approaches offer no solution to these problems. In order to prevent or minimize recovery saccades in an RSVP it is preferable to display each word such that the optimal fixation position does not shift in the display. The focal point of the reader can then remain fixed on the optimal fixation position which is a specific point in each word that is determined by the total number of characters or width of the word. This optimal recognition position hereinafter referred to as the ORP can be identified in the display such that the reader s eyes are directed to focus there as the words are serially presented. An RSVP which incorporates an ORP is hereinafter referred to as ORP RSVP. With an ORP RSVP text can then be presented at a faster rate because no saccades occur during the presentation. In addition the elimination of saccades reduces eye fatigue and makes it more comfortable resulting in a better reading experience for the user. Embodiments described herein may be implemented using conventional RSVP or ORP RSVP.

In addition words are rarely greater than 13 characters according to Sigurd only 0.4 of the words in the English language are longer than 13 characters see Sigurd B. et al Word Length Sentence Length and Frequency ZIPF Revisited Studia Lingustica 58 1 pp 37 52 Blackwell Publishing Ltd Oxford UK 2004 and therefore for the vast majority of words it is preferable to limit the number of characters to the right side of the fixation point to 8 characters. Also in some embodiments a word having a length of greater than thirteen characters is divided into first and second display elements such that a first portion of the word is displayed first along with a hyphen and then the second portion of the word is displayed next. In some embodiments an empirically determined ORP of each display element is presented at a fixed location of the DRDA . For example each word of a plurality of words is serially presented and positioned in the display such that the ORP is displayed at a fixed display location within DRDA and this enables recognition of each word in succession with minimal saccade by the reader. Determining and displaying the ORP for display elements and presenting display elements within DRDA is described in more detail in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 903 174 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Research has demonstrated that it is possible to get information about a word from up to 4 characters from the left side of the fixation position and up to 15 characters to the right side resulting in a perceptual span of 20 characters and that the maximum character length of a word without saccade movement is 20 characters. The DRDA can accommodate text of up to 20 characters in length without saccades although it is preferred to limit the display to 13 characters for improved comprehension.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a method for serially displaying text on an electronic display comprising identifying an ORP for a plurality of words to be displayed and serially displaying the plurality of words such that the ORP of each word is displayed at a fixed display location on the electronic display. In one embodiment the ORP is identified as a character in the word. In another embodiment the ORP is identified as a proportionate position relative to the width of the word in pixels. In some embodiments visual aids are used to mark the fixed display location see e.g. hash marks in and or an ORP within the word e.g. different colored font .

In one embodiment configuring text content for RSVP display comprises parsing text into a plurality of display elements inserting blank elements at the end of a sentence and determining a multiplier for each display element that can be used along with user selected settings and or other display parameters to determine a display time for each display element. While in alternative embodiments it is possible to display each element for the same amount of time it has been demonstrated empirically that a longer display time is beneficial for comprehension of longer words. It has also been demonstrated empirically that a longer pause between sentences is beneficial for comprehension of longer sentences. Further details of certain exemplary systems and methods for preparing and displaying text using RSVP are described in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 referenced above.

User device includes a desktop homescreen manager to control various elements to be displayed on a homescreen e.g. a homescreen of a smartphone running a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Phone or a desktop display of a PC laptop etc. running an operating system such as Windows or Mac OS or a homescreen desktop screen of an intermediate portable device such as notepad touchpad etc running a corresponding operating system all referenced herein as simply a homescreen for simplicity . For example desktop homescreen manager may control the icons widgets tiles windows folders etc. and other information that may be displayed on a desktop or homescreen. An input manager manages inputs received from one or more input mechanisms such as a touch screen trackball keyboard mouse microphone eye tracking a gesture detector or other natural interface input detector etc. For example text input may be provided using a virtual i.e. touch screen or physical keyboard mouse trackball etc. Alternatively or in addition a user may provide voice speech input via a microphone which may then be converted to text. Various applications including for example applications and may run on the device and may provide data to be displayed through desktop homescreen manager .

Various messages e.g. email SMS may be received over a network such as a wireless communications network connected to the Internet via a wireless interface not shown . Information received from the network such as from one or more remote servers may be provided to the applications by event manager and information may be passed from the applications back to the network. Event manager may manage notification events that are presented to a user e.g. through display . For example event manager may receive notification events from the wireless network. Notification events may include for example receipt of text messages emails voicemails social network updates file transfers etc. The event manager may in turn forward the notification events to corresponding applications. For example an email notification may be forwarded to the email application. The application may then instruct the desktop or homescreen manager to display status or notification information to alert the user.

As will be described in further detail below RSVP library allows user device to present display elements using RSVP. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment applications and which may be a word processing application a spreadsheet application a photo application a map application a webpage editor a browser application etc. may communicate with RSVP library through a RSVP application programming interface API such as API . As will be apparent to one of skill in the art an API is an interface used by software components to communicate with each other. In one embodiment each application and may include application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and respectively which may allow applications and to detect presence of RSVP content. Upon detecting RSVP content RSVP software such as RSVP software and or may call RSVP library via the API. In response RSVP library may display RSVP notification markers icons display DRDA display RSVP content in DRDA etc. In an alternate embodiment the application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and or may instead be included in RSVP library . In one embodiment application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and may additionally include logic to allow embedding of textual content within a file. Embedding textual content in a file is described in more detail in the description of and

In yet another embodiment for certain applications notification markers icons may not be displayed. For example for SMS and or email applications where notification events typically include textual content RSVP display may be enabled by default such that content associated with all notification events for these applications may be displayed using RSVP upon user selection of a notification event or upon user interaction with a selectable item e.g. an email or a text message .

In the example illustrated in if the user selects notification marker icon DRDA may be displayed on homescreen and DRDA may display using RSVP the first of two SMS messages which reads Martina please call me. It should be noted that illustrate time sequence snapshots of the content displayed in DRDA . For example shows that DRDA displays Martina at time 1 shows that DRDA displays please at time 2 shows that DRDA displays call at time 3 and shows that DRDA displays me at time 4. DRDA may display an ORP of each word at a fixed display location between hash marks . As previously discussed an empirically determined ORP of each display element may be presented at a fixed location of DRDA the fixed display location being between hash marks . It should be noted that hash marks are not shown in subsequent figures to avoid overcomplicating the figures and embodiments of the invention may be implemented using either ORP RSVP or conventional RSVP. In addition although DRDA is shown displayed on top of the display DRDA may be positioned in any portion of the display. Although the embodiment illustrated in shows display of textual content associated with a notification event using RSVP on a homescreen in some embodiments content may be displayed using RSVP on a screen other than the homescreen such as for example a lock screen. As will be apparent to one of skill in the art notification events are often displayed on a lock screen. In such an instance selecting the notification s on the lock screen may result in content associated with the notification event being displayed in a DRDA using RSVP on the lock screen. 

Upon user selection of notification marker icon DRDA may be displayed as shown in and Free breakfast may be displayed using RSVP in DRDA . It should be noted that illustrate time sequence snapshots of the content displayed in DRDA . For example shows that DRDA displays Free at time 1 and shows that DRDA displays breakfast at time 2.

However if the notification event is determined to be displayable using RSVP a notification marker icon may be displayed in step . In one embodiment the notification marker icon may be overlaid on top of the icon representing the corresponding application see . In other embodiments the notification marker icon may be displayed adjacent to above or below the icon representing the corresponding application. As previously described the notification marker icon may also include a numerical indicator which may correspond to the number of notification events for the corresponding application. The notification marker icon may be selected in response to user input received at step . The user input may include for example a touch and hold of the notification marker icon a tap of the notification marker icon a selection of the notification marker icon using a mouse or trackball etc. As previously discussed in some embodiments a notification marker icon may be selected by simply hovering over the notification marker icon. In response to user selection of the notification marker icon the designated RSVP display area DRDA may be displayed in step . Textual content associated with the notification event may be displayed using RSVP in the DRDA in step . In one embodiment the textual content associated with the notification event may be displayed in the DRDA as long as appropriate user input is present. For example in the case where appropriate user input is a press and hold of the notification icon marker if the user releases the notification icon marker the DRDA stops displaying the RSVP content and is then hidden. In one embodiment the amount and type of content that gets displayed in DRDA may be defined or selected in RSVP Settings . For example in the case of an email it may be selected that the sender name subject of the email and the body of the email may be displayed using RSVP in DRDA. Alternatively it may be selected that only the sender name and subject of the email be displayed using RSVP in DRDA. In some embodiments RSVP content may contain additional embedded RSVP content as illustrated in for example . It may be determined in step if additional embedded text is present. If so a notification e.g. notification in may be displayed in step . In response to user input received at step the additional embedded text may be displayed in DRDA using RSVP. In some embodiments steps and may be optional. In other words all available RSVP content may be automatically displayed sequentially without awaiting user input.

If it is determined in step that a URL is included in the RSVP content an indication of the presence of a URL is displayed in step as shown in . User input indicating selection of the URL is received in step . In one embodiment the webpage corresponding to the URL may contain RSVP content. As previously described RSVP content may be embedded in a webpage using for example a HTML tag. It is determined in step if the webpage corresponding to the URL contains RSVP content. If it is determined that the webpage does not contain RSVP content the DRDA is hidden and a browser application is launched in step to display the webpage corresponding to the URL. If however the webpage is determined to contain RSVP content the RSVP content is displayed in the DRDA using RSVP in step .

If it is determined in step that embedded text is included in the RSVP content an indication of the presence of embedded text is displayed in step as shown in . User input indicating selection of the embedded text is received in step . In step the RSVP content is displayed in the DRDA using RSVP.

If it is determined that the file contains no RSVP content the application may proceed as normal in step . For example if the file is a photo and it does not contain RSVP content the application may simply display the photo normally. If however it is determined that the file contains RSVP content the application requests display of notification markers icons in appropriate locations in step . In the example of a photo the notification markers icons may need to be displayed in specific locations on the photo. In one embodiment the application may request for example RSVP library to display the notification markers icons. In another embodiment the application may request the operating system to display the notification markers icons. In yet another embodiment the application may obtain the notification markers icons from RSVP library and display the notification markers icons. In an alternate embodiment step of displaying notification markers icons is optional. A user device may be configured e.g. using RSVP settings in such that certain applications may display all content using RSVP. For example applications such as an email application a SMS application etc. which primarily receive textual data may be configured to display all content using RSVP. In such instances displaying a notification marker icon indicating the presence of RSVP content is not necessary as further described with respect to

Continuing with the description of upon receiving user input comprising selection of a particular notification marker icon at step the application may request display of the DRDA in step . In one embodiment the application may request for example RSVP library to display the DRDA. In another embodiment the application may request the operating system to display the DRDA. In yet another embodiment the application may itself e.g. using RSVP software in display the DRDA. The RSVP content associated with the user selected notification marker icon may be displayed in the DRDA using RSVP in step . It is determined in step if additional RSVP content is present. If so the additional RSVP content may be automatically displayed sequentially. For example as shown in if there are multiple notification markers icons DRDA may automatically sequentially display the RSVP content associated with each marker icon. In another embodiment user input may be requested before displaying RSVP content associated with each marker icon. As previously discussed the RSVP content may include one or more attachments. After displaying RSVP content process may be used to display any attachments included with the RSVP content.

In addition to display advertisements RSVP content may also be incorporated in for example sponsored search results. is a flow chart diagram of a process for configuring search results with RSVP content in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. One or more servers may receive a search query in step . In response to the search query at least one search result corresponding to the search query may be configured with content that is displayable using RSVP in step . In step the at least one search result may be transmitted to a browser application for display in the browser application. In one embodiment the search result s may be displayed as shown in 

In some embodiments users may embed RSVP content into files such as for example photos presentations maps etc. is a flow chart diagram of a process for embedding RSVP content in a file e.g. map photo diagram presentation word processing document spreadsheet etc. in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In step displayable contents of a file may be displayed by the appropriate application. For example a diagram may be displayed in a drawing application e.g. Microsoft Visio or a presentation may be displayed in a presentation application e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint . In some embodiments the application may be a desktop application while in other embodiments the application may be a mobile application or a web based application accessible via a browser. A user may specify whether to add global RSVP content or local RSVP content in step . In one embodiment an interface which allows the user to choose between global and or local RSVP content may be displayed. In some embodiments both local and global RSVP content may be embedded. As used herein global content refers to RSVP content associated with the file e.g. photo map presentation and or diagram in its entirety. In the case of a map in the example shown in notification indicates presence of global RSVP content such as Check out these three restaurants and is associated with the whole displayed map. By contrast notifications and indicate presence of local RSVP content associated with each location specified by notifications and . Similarly in the case of a photo in the example shown in notification indicates presence of global RSVP content such as These are my friends and is associated with the whole photo. By contrast notifications and indicate presence of local RSVP content associated with each location specified by notifications and . In another embodiment global content may include a description of the file s contents. In such an embodiment selecting a file e.g. by clicking on or hovering over the file s icon or name that includes embedded global RSVP content from a file management interface e.g. Windows Explorer or a homescreen may result in the global content being displayed using RSVP. It should be noted that in such an embodiment viewing the global RSVP content does not require opening the file with an associated application.

If the user chooses to add global RSVP content an interface which allows the user to input textual content which will be embedded as global RSVP content is displayed in step . In the embodiment described above where global content includes a description of the file the global content may be provided in the metadata of the file. For example a user may right click the file icon select an option to enter an RSVP description for the file and input the textual content.

User input including textual content may be received in step . In embodiments where text input is required text input may be provided using a virtual i.e. touch screen or physical keyboard mouse trackball etc. Alternatively or in addition the user may provide voice speech input via a microphone. The voice speech input may then be converted to text. If the user chooses to add local RSVP content an interface which allows the user to specify location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding textual content which will be embedded as local RSVP content is displayed in step . For example the user may specify locations on photos maps etc. specify elements or objects in photos diagrams and presentations etc. User input including specified location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding textual content may be received in step . In one embodiment the interface may also allow selection of text such that RSVP content may be associated with the selected text. In the case of a photo in addition to specifying locations on the photo the user may select areas of the photo such as for example a face of a person. The location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in step . In one embodiment location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in the meta data of the file. For example in the case of a photo the location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in the EXIF data. In one embodiment the textual content may be saved as plain text in which case the textual data may be converted to RSVP content e.g. text that is configured to be displayed using RSVP prior to displaying. In other embodiments the textual content may be converted to RSVP content and the RSVP content may be saved in the meta data of the file.

While the present invention has been particularly described with respect to the illustrated embodiments it will be appreciated that various alterations modifications and adaptations may be made based on the present disclosure and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention. While the invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims.

