---

title: Conversion tracking for installation of applications on mobile devices
abstract: An application executing on a mobile device, such as an application associated with a social networking system provides a link to install a third-party application. The link may be presented in an advertisement, and the link is used to retrieve data comprising a client application for execution by the mobile device. To track installations, the client application stores an indication that the client application was installed in a shared memory location on the mobile device, as native applications do not have access to cookies. A social networking application executing on the mobile device retrieves the indication the client application was installed from the shared memory location and communicates it to a social networking system for storing in a user profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514478&OS=09514478&RS=09514478
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09514478
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130123
---
The present disclosure relates to conversion tracking and in particular to tracking installations of native applications on mobile devices.

Advertisement revenue provides an important revenue stream for social networking systems and other online system. Some advertisements may identify client applications allowing users to interact with content provided by a third party system. Often an advertisement includes a link to download the client application for installation. However users increasingly interact with content using mobile devices which frequently use an application store or other program to manage retrieval and installation of applications on the mobile device.

Hence a user may access a link to download a client application from an advertisement using a mobile device causing the client application to be installed via the application store. However this installation through the application store does not provide information to the third party system or advertiser promoting the application that the user interacted with the advertisement and subsequently installed the application. For example a user may interact with an advertisement for a client application on a mobile device which subsequently accesses the application store of the mobile device and elect not to install the application. Because the installation occurs through the application store the third party system or advertiser promoting the client application does not receive information whether the client application was installed on the mobile device.

Embodiments of the present disclosure allow a social networking system to identify installations of a client application on a mobile device. The client application is a native application executed by an operating system of the mobile device so the client application is unable to access cookies. Hence data comprising the client application includes one or more instructions from the social networking system that store an indication in a shared memory location of the mobile device that the client application was installed on the device. A social networking application executing on the mobile device and associated with the social networking system retrieves the indication from the shared memory location that the client application was installed on the device. User identifying information used by the social networking application and the indication the client application was installed are transmitted to the social networking system by the social networking application. Based on the user identifying information the social networking system identifies a user account and stores the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device. If this installation occurred after the user was presented with an advertisement for the application e.g. where the advertisement contains a link to a location such as an app store for installing the application the system may count the installation as a conversion event for the advertisement. Advertising metrics including conversions may then be reported to the advertisers.

In one embodiment the social networking system communicates the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device to a third party system associated with the client application. This allows the third party system to track a number of installations of the client application on mobile devices. In one embodiment the social networking system may anonymize the user identifying information and send the anonymized user identifying information to the third party system. Alternatively information describing the mobile device stored in the indication the client application was installed may be sent the third party system. For example a type associated with the mobile device or a mobile device identifier may be communicated to the third party system along with the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments described herein.

To provide advertisements the client application includes an advertisement application that retrieves advertisements to be presented to the user. Advertisements that are associated with a user profile or with a group of user profiles are known as targeted advertisements. The advertisement application retrieves user identification ID information for the user stored on the mobile device . In one embodiment user ID information is associated with a social networking application included on the mobile device . For example user ID information includes a user identifier uniquely associating the user with a user profile within a social networking system . The user ID information may be stored in a shared memory location of the mobile device to more readily allow the social networking application and the advertisement application to access the user ID information . Although the user ID information is depicted in FIG. lA as being derived from user information maintained by the mobile device in another embodiment the user ID information is derived independently from any user information on the mobile device . For example the user ID information may be an identifier provided by the social networking system or a system external to the social networking system . The social networking system may maintain a mapping of user ID information with each user of the social networking system and each social networking application .

In one embodiment the social networking application hashes the user ID information and stores the hashed user ID information in the shared memory location of the mobile device . The social networking application may generate the hash from any item of information associated with a user. Examples of items of information associated with a user include an account identifier an email a login name an identifier used by the social networking system or any other suitable information. The hashed user ID information is retrieved by the advertisement application or by the client application and communicated to the social networking system . Using user ID information stored by the social networking system the social networking system generates hash identifiers and compares the received hashed user ID information to the hash identifiers. If a hash identifier matches the hashed user ID information the social networking system retrieves a user profile associated with the hash identifier. The received user profile may be used to obtain information about a user for selecting an advertisement or to store information identifying an advertisement with which a user interacted with using the mobile device . Hashing of user ID information is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 306 901 filed on Nov. 29 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The advertisement application sends a request for an advertisement to a social networking system that includes the user ID information . In some embodiments the request for an advertisement may additionally include one or more request parameters. Request parameters are conditions which the social networking system may use to limit advertisements provided to the client application . For example a request parameter causes the social networking system to select advertisements that have not been previously displayed to the user.

The social networking system further described below in conjunction with selects one or more advertisements using the user ID information and any additional request parameters from the requests for advertisements. One or more of the selected advertisements are provided to the client application by the social networking system . In some embodiments the social networking system embeds social context information within a selected advertisement if the user identified by a request for an advertisement is presently logged into social networking system via a social networking application a browser located on mobile device or any other suitable mechanism.

The social networking system selects the advertisement from one or more candidate advertisements which are each associated with at least one advertisement ad object. An ad object includes an advertisement and an associated bid price. An advertisement generally includes any communication intended to cause the recipient of the communication to take some action concerning a product or service. For example an advertisement includes an offer for a deal.

One or more advertisers provide ad objects to social networking system . In some embodiments an advertiser provides the ad object directly to the social networking system . Alternatively an advertiser may provide the ad object to social networking system indirectly by using an ad network or an ad exchange .

Ad objects may also include targeting criteria that specifies characteristics of social networking system users to receive a particular advertisement. An advertiser may provide an ad object without targeting criteria. If no targeting criteria are provided the social networking system may analyze the content of the ad object to infer targeting criteria based on a fuzzy matching algorithm that may use the types of interactions performed by users user characteristics and or types of connections between users in the group as characteristics.

Social networking system as further described below maintains user profiles edge objects and content objects to provide information about its users. These user profile objects edge objects and content objects may be analyzed to identify users matching one or more targeting criteria of an advertisement. For example groups of users having a common characteristic satisfying one or more targeting criteria are identified by social networking system . One or more targeted advertisements are associated with users matching one or more targeting criteria. For example the social networking system associates one or more archery related advertisements with users matching one or more targeting criteria of the archery related advertisements. For example the social networking system generates a group of users matching one or more targeting criteria using user identifiers associated with the users in the group thus based on a user identifier the targeting criteria matched by a group of users may be associated with user identifiers of users matching the targeting criteria allowing more efficient identification of targeting criteria matched by an identified user. Alternatively targeting criteria matched by a user are associated with the user allowing retrieval of the user s matching targeting criteria based on a received user identifier.

The social networking system extracts the user identifier from the received user ID information and determines one or more targeting criteria satisfied by the corresponding user. Based on the targeting criteria the social networking system identifies one or more candidate advertisements for the identified user. Any request parameters associated with the targeted request for an advertisement are extracted and applied by the social networking system to filter the pool of candidate advertisements. For example if a request parameter dictates that the targeted advertisement has not been previously provided to client application social networking system removes previously presented advertisements from the candidate advertisements.

From the candidate advertisements the social networking system selects an advertisement associated with one or more targeting criteria satisfied by the user identified from the received user ID information . For example an advertisement associated with a user identifier included in a group of user identifiers matching targeting criteria is selected. As another example the social networking system performs an auction based on the expected value of each of the candidate advertisements and selects the advertisement based on the auction. An internal auction an external auction or both may be used by the social networking system to select a targeted advertisement to provide to client application . In some embodiments the user social networking system limits the candidate advertisements included in the objects. For example other information about the user or users connected to the user is used to select a subset of the candidate advertisements included in the auction. Alternatively the candidate advertisements included in the auction are not limited.

In some embodiments the social networking system or another advertising provider may select of the advertisement based on information about the user stored by the social networking system . For example information about the user maintained by the social networking system indicates that the user has previously viewed content from or is associated with e.g. a connection exists in the social networking system between the user and the advertiser the candidate target advertisements advertisers. This information may increase the likelihood that the advertisement selected is from an advertiser with which the user has previously interacted allowing advertisements to be retargeted based on content viewed by the user via the mobile device .

In some embodiments the social networking system may also embed social context information into a selected advertisement. To embed social context information the social networking system determines whether the user is logged into the social networking system via a social networking application on mobile device a browser operating on mobile device etc. If the user is logged onto the social networking system the social networking system may embed social context information associated with the user into the selected advertisement. Social context information identifies actions with the advertisement or with objects associated with the advertisement by other users of the social networking system connected to the user of the mobile device . For example if user X is connected to users Y and Z and user Y is has expressed a preference for a page in the social networking system associated with a product in a selected advertisement the selected advertisement is modified to include social context information that user Y likes this product when delivered to user X.

The social networking system then provides the selected advertisement to the client application which presents the selected advertisement to the user along with any embedded social context. For example the client application displays the selected advertisement to the user plays audio associated with the selected advertisement for the user or otherwise presents the selected advertisement to the user.

Additionally in the example of the social networking system determined that the user was logged into social networking system when the selected advertisement is requested. Hence the selected advertisement in includes social context information .

The advertisers provide ad objects to entities in system environment and one or more of the ad objects are selected for presentation to a user of mobile device . The ad exchange facilitates bidding buying selling or some combination thereof of ad objects from advertisers to systems facilitating delivery of advertisements associated with the ad objects to their intended audience e.g. all users targeted to particular groups etc. .

The mobile devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . Examples of a mobile device include a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smart phone or other devices operating without using cookies describing user actions. Mobile devices may be equipped for cellular communication Wi Fi communications or both.

The computing devices are also capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network but are capable of storing cookies describing user actions. Examples of computing devices include a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook computer or other similar device.

As discussed above each mobile device includes the social networking application and the client application . The social networking application allows a social networking system user to exchange data with the social networking system via a mobile device and the network . User identification ID information for each user of a mobile device previously accessing the social networking system via the social networking application is stored on the mobile device .

The client application may be any application capable of presenting content to the mobile device user and is configured to present advertisements in conjunction with client content. For example client application may be a news application that displays advertisements to the user along with news content. Additionally client applications may differ across different mobile devices . For example the client application may be a news application on a mobile device and may be a weather application on a separate mobile device .

As discussed above in conjunction with a client application includes an advertisement application that sends requests for advertisements to the social networking system . The advertisement application retrieves the user ID information associated with the social networking application that is stored in a shared memory location of the mobile device . Alternatively the advertisement application causes the client application to retrieve the user ID information from the shared memory location. By storing the user ID information in a shared memory location the social networking application allows other applications such as the client application to identify a social networking system user operating the mobile device . This allows the other applications to provide advertisements that are based on information maintained by the social networking system about the user corresponding to the user ID information . In embodiments where the user ID information is associated with multiple users the advertisement application may select components of the user ID information that are associated with one or more users. Using the user ID information the advertisement application sends a request for an advertisement including the user ID information to the social networking system . The advertisement application receives an advertisement selected by the social networking system and the advertisement application communicates with the client application to display the received advertisement. In some embodiments the advertisement application may be created using a software development kit SDK . The social networking system may make available the SDK software to software developers. And in some instances the social networking system may charge a fee for use of the SDK software.

The mobile devices are configured to communicate via network . A mobile device may execute an application e.g. client application social networking application etc. that interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on the native operating system of the mobile device such as IOS and ANDROID . Additionally the advertisement application may allow interactions between the client application and the social networking system and or the social networking application . In some embodiments the mobile device executes an application allowing a user of the mobile device to receive an advertisement from the social networking system or to otherwise interact with the social networking system .

In one embodiment network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus network may include wired and or wireless links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 family of standards worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used on the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

A third party system is one or more computing systems providing content to one or more mobile devices via the network . The third party system may be associated with one or more client applications and a mobile device receives data comprising the client application via the network . The mobile device executes the received data to install the client application on the mobile device allowing the third party system to provide content to the mobile device via the client application .

User account information and other related information for users are stored as user profile objects in user profile store . For example each user of the social networking system has an associated user identifier that is unique to the user and is part of their user account information. The user identifier is stored in a user profile maintained by the user profile store . The user profile information stored in user profile store also describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. User profile information may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. The user profile store also maintains references to the actions stored in an action log and performed on objects in the content store . The user profile store also includes data in a user profile indicating whether a user corresponding to the user profile is currently logged into social networking system . Additionally a user profile may include information received from the mobile device identifying content accessed or viewed by the user via the mobile device . This allows the user profile to include information describing content viewed by the user which may be used to subsequently select advertisements or other content for presentation to the user. In one embodiment the content is associated with an advertiser identifier or other information allowing an advertiser to be determined from the content.

The edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

The edge store also includes information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge in the edge store in one embodiment. For example a user that plays multiple songs from Miles Davis album Kind of Blue may have multiple edges between the user and different songs but a single edge between the user and an object for Miles Davis.

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos and audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social networking system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system. Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system .

In one embodiment advertisement objects ad objects are stored in the advertisement store however in other embodiments ad objects may be stored in the content store . Ad objects may be received from one or more of advertisers and the ad exchange . An ad object includes an advertisement and an associated bid amount and may also include targeting criteria specifying one or more characteristics of a user eligible to be presented the advertisement. The bid amount specifies an amount of compensation an advertiser will provide the social networking system for presenting the advertisement to a user for receiving a user interaction with the advertisement or based on any other suitable criteria. The bid amount may be used to determine an expected value to the social networking system for presenting an advertisement to a user. For example the bid amount specifies a monetary amount that the social networking system receives from the advertiser if the advertisement is displayed and the expected value is determined by multiplying the bid amount by a probability of the advertisement being accessed.

In one embodiment the social networking system includes a grouping module that retrieves targeting criteria from received ad objects. The grouping module accesses information about users from the user profile store the edge store and or the action log to identify users satisfying one or more targeting criteria. In one embodiment the grouping module associates groups of users with targeting criteria satisfied by users in a group. A group of user profiles includes users that have some common characteristic satisfying targeting criteria associated with the group. For example a group of users includes user identifiers associated with one or more users.

The grouping module may associate one or more advertisements with a group of users to expedite selection of users satisfying targeting criteria associated with the advertisement. For example the social networking system retrieves targeting criteria from an advertiser to target one or more advertisements to users that have previously checked in to a specified location. More generally targeting criteria associated with advertisements may be used to identify any edge action characteristic or other information for identifying users to received the advertisement. From the targeting criteria and accessed information the grouping module identifies groups of users having the characteristics specified by the targeting criteria e.g. having performed the check in action to the specified location . User identifiers associated with users satisfying the targeting criteria are included in the group of users which may be associated with the targeting criteria or with the advertisement. In some embodiments targeting criteria associated with an advertisement may not necessarily include objects. For example to advertise for a local marathon an advertisement may include targeting criteria to identify users that have previously run a marathon.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system and populates the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album enabling communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system .

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

The auction module selects advertisements from the advertisement store for presentation to a user such as presentation via a client application on the mobile device . In one embodiment the auction module accesses the advertisement store and or the grouping module to identify candidate advertisements for presentation to a user. Alternatively the auction module receives requests for advertisements including a user identifier and identifies candidate advertisements from the advertisement store associated with targeting criteria that the identified user satisfies. Based on bid prices associated with the candidate advertisements the auction module ranks the candidate advertisements and uses the ranking to select an advertisement for presentation by the mobile device . In various embodiments the auction module performs an internal auction an external auction or both to select an advertisement to provide to the client application . For example the auction module determines expected values for the candidate advertisements based on their associated bid amounts and the likelihood of the identified user accessing various candidate advertisements.

In some embodiments the auction module may base its advertisement selections at least in part on other information about the user stored on the social networking system . For example stored information about the user in the user profile store indicates advertisers from which the user has previously viewed content. For example a user profile identifies identifiers that a user has previously viewed so accessing the user profile indicates content that the user has previously accessed. Additional information associated with a user by the social networking system may also be used in advertisement selection. For example connections between the user and the advertiser may be retrieved from the edge store and used as a factor in selecting advertisements. The auction module may retrieve information from the action log the content store the advertisement store some other module or some combination thereof to determine what content the user has previously viewed. For example the retrieved information may indicate that the user had recently viewed content from Jack s Bow Hunting Supply. The auction module would then weight any candidate advertisement from Jack s Bow Hunting Supply such that it has an increased probability of being selected e.g. increases the expected value of the advertisement . Associating content that a user has accessed with the user s user profile allows a record of the content accessed by a user to be maintained even when the content is accessed from sources that do not support cookies or other conventional tracking such as applications on mobile devices . Similarly if the user was associated with Jack s Bow Hunting Supply candidate advertisements from Jack s Bow Hunting Supply would also have an increased weight.

In some cases the user ID information in a request for an advertisement is associated with multiple users. The auction module may identify a subset of the users identified by the user ID information . In one embodiment the auction module selects the user identifiers from the request for an advertisement that are associated with a user currently logged into the social networking system via the social networking application . For example user profiles may be selected based on most recent logging into the social networking system most frequently logging into the social networking system or based on any other suitable criteria. Or the auction module may select user profiles from the received user ID information based on connections between users in the received user ID information . For example the auction module selects users identified by the received user ID information that are connected to a common object or that are included in the same group by the grouping module . For example user ID information specifies user A and user B where user A is included in a group associated with targeting criteria X and Y and user B is included in a group associated with targeting criteria Y and Z. In this example the auction module associates a group including targeting criteria Z with the user ID information . In other embodiments the auction module identifies user profiles associated with each user identifier included in the user ID information .

If a request for an advertisement includes one or more request parameters the auction module applies the request parameters to filter the candidate advertisements before ranking the candidate advertisements. A request parameter may specify for example a parameter that a candidate advertisement has not been previously provided to the client application a specified size of the candidate advertisement a threshold number of times the candidate advertisement has been provided to the client application a threshold expected value associated with the candidate advertisement content of the candidate advertisement or some combination thereof.

If the user identified by the user ID information satisfies targeting criteria for multiple advertisements auction module may select specific targeting criteria and rank the advertisements associated with the selected targeting criteria. Auction module may select which targeting criteria to select based on characteristics of the advertisements associated with the targeting criteria. For example targeting criteria associated with advertisements having the highest average expected value having the highest or lowest frequency of display or any other applicable characteristics may be selected. In other embodiments auction module may conduct auctions including ads without limiting the advertisements included in the auction.

Social context module identifies social context information associated with a user identified by the user ID information for inclusion in a selected advertisement. For example social context module retrieves data from the user profile store to determine if a user associated with the user ID information is currently logged into the social networking system . If the user is logged in the social context module identifies users connected to the user from the user profile store and or the edge store and identifies actions or characteristics of the users connected to the user from the user profile store or from the action log . includes an example of embedded social context information specifically Brian and Dave like Robin s Archery Supply embedded in the targeted advertisement .

Communications module is configured to transmit and receive data via network from social networking system to a mobile device and or to another component. The communications module receives requests for advertisements from one or more requesting mobile devices and communicates information from the requests for advertisements to components of the social networking system . Additionally communications module sends an advertisement selected by the social networking system as well as embedded social context information to the requesting mobile device via the network .

Based on the retrieved user ID information the client application sends a request for an advertisement including the retrieved user ID information to the social networking system .

The social networking system processes the request for an advertisement and selects an advertisement for presentation via the client application . For example the social networking system may base the selection on targeting criteria associated with advertisements stored by the social networking system and or information about the user stored by the social networking system . In some embodiments the stored information about the user indicates that the user has previously viewed content from or is associated with the candidate target advertisements advertisers.

The selected advertisement is received by the client application or by the advertising application and is presented to the user via the client application . For example the client application displays the targeted advertisement to the user plays audio associated with the selected targeted advertisement etc. In one embodiment the selected advertisement includes a link to retrieve content comprising a client application allowing the client application to be retrieved and installed by interacting with the application. For example accessing the link communicates information to an application store executing on the mobile device and the application store retrieves data comprising the client application associated with the link. When the mobile device receives the data comprising the client application from the third party system or from another source the mobile device executes the received data to install the client application on the mobile device .

When the user of the mobile device interacts with the presented advertisement user ID information stored in a shared memory location of the mobile device by the social networking application is retrieved by the advertisement application . A description of the presented advertisement the interaction with the presented advertisement and the retrieved user ID information is communicated to the social networking system . Information describing the information with the advertisement is stored by the social networking system in a user profile associated with the retrieved user ID information allowing the user profile to include data describing advertisements with which a user corresponding to the user profile interacted. Additional information about the interactions may also be included in the user profile. For example a type of interaction a device type an identification of a client application identified by the advertisement an identifier of the application in which the advertisement was presented a time when the advertisement was presented a time when the interaction was received or other suitable information may also be stored.

To provide the third party system associated with the received client application or the advertiser with information describing installations of the client application identified by the advertisement the received data comprising the client application includes one or more instructions from the social networking system that when executed writes data to a shared memory location of the mobile device indicating the client application was installed. When the data comprising the client application is received and the client application is installed on the mobile device an indication the client application was installed is stored to the shared memory location. The social networking application accesses the shared memory location and retrieves the data indicating the client application was installed. In one embodiment the social networking application associates user ID information used by the social networking application with the data indicating the client application and communicates the user ID information and the data indicating the client application was installed to the social networking system .

The indication the client application was installed may be stored in a user profile associated with the user ID information by the social networking system . Hence the user profile maintained by the social networking system includes information describing client applications installed on one or more mobile devices by the user corresponding to the user profile. The indication the client application was installed may include a client identifier associated with the client application an identifier of the mobile device on which the client application was installed a type of the mobile device a date and time when the client application was installed or other information describing the client application or installation of the client application .

Based on information in the user profile associated with the user ID information the social networking system may provide a third party system or an advertiser associated with the client application or with the presented advertisement. For example the social networking system may determine if the user profile indicates an interaction with an advertisement associated with the client application was received before the client application was installed . For example the social networking system determines if the user profile includes an interaction with an advertisement associated with a client application has timing information within a threshold time of a time when the data indicating the client application was installed is received. If the user profile indicates an interaction with an advertisement associated with the client application occurred before receipt of the data indicating the client application was installed the social networking system may infer that the advertisement associated with the client device was converted. This inferred conversion may be communicated to a third party system or an advertiser to determine the effectiveness of advertisements associated with the client application .

A user of a mobile device may retrieve and install native applications such as the client application which execute using an operating system embedded on the mobile device . As described above in conjunction with the client application presents content to a user of the mobile device . The social networking application may identify one or more client applications for a mobile device user to install. For example the social networking application recommends one or more client applications for the mobile device user to retrieve and install based on information associated with the user via the user profile store the edge store and or the action log . In one embodiment the social networking system identifies objects associated with client applications for which a user of the mobile device has at least a threshold affinity and presents the objects to the user via the social networking application . The objects may include one or more links for retrieving a client application associated with the object from a third party system or from the social networking system . Alternatively an advertisement presented to the user includes a link for retrieving a client application .

By accessing a link for retrieving the client application a user of the mobile device retrieves data comprising the client application from a third party system or from the social networking system . In one embodiment accessing the link communicates information to an application store executing on the mobile device and the application store users the communicated information to retrieve data comprising the client application associated with the link. When the mobile device receives the data comprising the client application from the third party system or from another source the mobile device executes the received data to install the client application on the mobile device .

To provide the third party system with information describing the number of times the client device is installed the data comprising the client application includes one or more instructions from the social networking system that when executed writes data to a shared memory location of the mobile device indicating the client application was installed. The social networking application accesses the shared memory location and retrieves the data indicating the client application was installed. In one embodiment the social networking application sends the indication the client application was installed and associates user ID information used by the social networking application to the social networking system .

Based on the user ID information received from the social networking application the social networking system identifies a user profile associated with the user of the mobile device . The indication the client application was installed is stored in the identified user profile. As described above in conjunction with the social networking system may analyze additional interactions with content stored in the user profile to determine if the installation of the client application is a conversion of an advertisement associated with the client application with which the user was previously presented or with which the user previously interacted.

The social networking system may communicate the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device to a third party system associated with the client application . This allows the third party application to track installations of the client application . Similarly the social networking system may indicate to the third party system or to an advertiser that the social networking system infers the installation to be a conversion of a previously presented advertisement associated with the client device . Alternatively the social networking system may transmit the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device to an advertiser associated with the client application or with the third party system allowing the advertiser to track installations of client applications promoted by advertisements from the advertiser .

In one embodiment the social networking system may communicate additional information associated with the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device to the third party system . For example the type of the mobile device and or an identifier of the mobile device are included in the indication the client application . This allows the third party system to maintain analytics data describing characteristics of various mobile devices on which the client application was installed. The social networking system may also anonymize the user ID information and transmit the anonymized user ID information to the third party system for analytics. For example the social networking system hashes user ID information and transmits the hashed user ID information to the third party system . Hashing of user ID information is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 306 901 filed on Nov. 29 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Further subject to one or more privacy settings associated with the user profile limited information from the user profile may be retrieved and communicated to the third party system along with the indication the client application was installed on the mobile device .

Although described with reference to a social networking system and a social networking system application executing on a mobile device the preceding description may be used with other online systems that serve advertisements. For example an application associated with an online system and executing on a mobile device may retrieve user ID information from a shared memory location of the mobile device and communicate the retrieved user ID information to the online system along with additional information as described above.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

