---

title: Transforming application cached template using personalized content
abstract: Mechanisms are provided to implement a customizable mobile application utilizing a local template to personalize data. In one example, a local client application on a mobile device automatically changes the local content by utilizing a locally cached template and REST service supported by a remote application. In another example, the template further supports multiple phases of personalization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426201&OS=09426201&RS=09426201
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09426201
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present application is related to commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 830 entitled MOBILE ENABLEMENT OF EXISTING WEB SITES filed Mar. 13 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 820 entitled MOBILE ENABLEMENT OF WEB PAGES filed on Mar. 13 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 848 entitled MOBILIZING A WEB APPLICATION TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF A NATIVE DEVICE CAPABILITY filed on Mar. 13 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 892 entitled ENHANCED MOBILIZATION OF EXISTING WEB SITES filed on Mar. 13 2013 the entire contents and disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein as if fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to an environment where an application has cached hyper text markup language HTML cascading style sheets CSS and or JavaScript in support of providing a low latency rich user environment including interactions with a backend server for dynamic content and Representational State Transfer REST requests.

In such an environment the application is typically installed with a variety of HTML extensible markup language XML extensible hypertext markup language XHTML CSS JavaScript images and other documents helping provide a desired web experience. However a conventional application will typically be installed with a non personalized set of artifacts that is resources . The application is then limited as to what kind of user experience it can provide.

Other systems such as those utilized by developers building applications based on PHONEGAP also bundle local web artifacts on mobile devices while making REST calls to remote services for dynamic or real time data.

In one example the present disclosure relates to the field of transforming cached templates for personalized use.

In one specific example one or more systems may provide for automatically transforming cached templates for personalized use. In another example one or more methods may provide for automatically transforming cached templates for personalized use. In another example one or more algorithms may provide for automatically transforming cached templates for personalized use.

In one embodiment a computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the computer for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the program of instructions when executing performing the following steps generating the template including local content identifying in the template at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted adding the placeholder at the identified location in the template and generating one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder by the mobile device in cooperation with the server.

In another embodiment a method for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the method comprising generating by a processor the template including local content identifying in the template by the processor at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted adding the placeholder by the processor at the identified location in the template and generating by the processor one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder in cooperation with the server.

In another embodiment a computer implemented system for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the system comprising a template generating element configured to generate the template including local content an identifying element configured to identify in the template at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted an adding element configured to add the placeholder at the identified location in the template and a services generating element configured to generate one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder by the mobile device in cooperation with the server.

The present disclosure relates generally to implementing a customizable mobile application utilizing a local template to personalize data. In one example a local client application on a mobile device automatically changes the local content by utilizing a locally cached template and REST service supported by a remote application. In another example the template further supports multiple phases of personalization.

For the purposes of describing and claiming the present invention the term mobile device is intended to refer to a device that can communicate data e.g. receive transmit over a network and can be carried by a user. Examples include but are not limited to a mobile phone a cellular phone a smart phone and or a tablet.

For the purposes of describing and claiming the present invention the term webpage is intended to refer to the content shown in a user interface screen displayed by a web browser.

Referring now to a method for providing information to be displayed in a user interface of a device e.g. a mobile device wherein the device comprises a processor is shown. As seen in this the method of this embodiment comprises at obtaining by the processor a template of a graphical user interface at storing by the processor the template locally at the device at receiving by the processor data that is input to the device at obtaining from a server by the processor based at least in part upon the data a set of instructions comprising at least one customization to the template at applying by the processor the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface and at displaying by the processor the customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In one example the applying the customization may comprise hardcoding the customization into HTML code. In another example the applying the customization may comprise embedding the customization into HTML code. In another example the applying the customization may comprise saving data in a separate document to be merged with the template e.g. HTML document when rendered.

In another example the customized graphical user interface may be saved e.g. by being stored on the device . In one specific example the customized graphical user interface may be saved in the form of an HTML document. In another specific example the customized graphical user interface may be saved in the form of a template document. In one specific example the customized graphical user interface may be saved in the form of a GUI document.

In another example the above steps may be carried out in the order recited or the steps may be carried out in another order.

Referring now to a diagram showing interaction between a mobile device and a server according to an embodiment is shown. As seen at 1 the mobile device makes a request for a template of a graphical user interface. At 2 the server responds with the template. At 3 the mobile device stores the template locally at the device e.g. in a memory such as a solid state memory . At 4 data is input to the device see e.g. manually by a user and or automatically by a component of the device e.g. a GPS . At 5 the device transmits the data and or other information based upon the data to the server. At 6 the sever responds with a set of instructions based at least in part upon the data and or the other information comprising at least one customization to the template. At 7 the device applies the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface. At 8 the device displays the customized graphical user interface in a user interface of the device.

In one example the above steps may be carried out in the order recited or the steps may be carried out in another order.

In another example communication between the mobile device and the server of may be carried out via the Internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network and or any other desired communication channel s . In another example some or all of these components may be implemented in a computer system of the type shown in .

Referring now to an example implementation of operation according to one embodiment is shown. More particularly with reference first to a mobile device including a default unpersonalized graphical user interface which is an example of a template as used herein displaying information for a fictional retail store is shown in one example the graphical user interface may be part of a stand alone mobile app in another example the graphical user interface may be part of a web browser . As seen the example graphical user interface is directed to a search functionality and has various content including header section and my store selection section . These sections and this graphical user interface are of course provided as examples only and any desired graphical user interface s and or section s may be provided.

Referring now to it is seen that after geo location data has been input to the device after the geo location data has been sent to a server and after the server has responded with customization instructions see e.g. at steps 4 6 the store selection section of the graphical user interface which corresponds to the store selection section of is personalized see e.g. steps 7 8 of with My Store information in this example Raleigh . In one specific example the geo location data may be input to the device manually by a user e.g. by entering city zipcode or the like . In another example the geo location data may be input to the device automatically via an integrated GPS or other appropriate mechanism e.g. base station identification . In another example the graphical user interface transformation may be accomplished by sending the server the geo location data in an Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT format.

In one example the default unpersonalized graphical user interface of may be displayed first e.g. before geo location data has been input followed by the customized graphical user interface of e.g. after geo location data has been input . In another example the customized graphical user interface of is displayed instead of the default unpersonalized graphical user interface of .

Referring now to it is seen that additional personalization may be performed. In particular in this example it is seen that after log in credentials have been input to the device after the log in credentials have been sent to server and after the server has responded with additional customization instructions the header section of the graphical user interface which corresponds to the header section of is personalized with greeting information in this example Hello John . In one specific example the log in credentials may be input to the device manually by a user. In another example the graphical user interface transformation may be accomplished by sending the server the log in credentials in an XSLT format.

Referring now to a computer implemented system for providing information to be displayed in a user interface of a device is provided. This system may include the following elements a receiving element configured to receive data that is input to the device an obtaining element configured to obtain from a server a a template of a graphical user interface and b based at least in part upon the data a set of instructions comprising at least one customization to the template a storing element in operative communication with the obtaining element configured to store the template locally at the device a customization element in operative communication with the obtaining element configured to apply the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface and a displaying element in operative communication with the customization element configured to display the customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In one example the receiving element is further configured to receive additional data that is input to the device the obtaining element is further configured to obtain from the server based at least in part upon the additional data an additional set of instructions comprising at least one additional customization to the stored template the customization element is further configured to apply the additional customization to the stored template to generate an additional customized graphical user interface and the displaying element is further configured to display the additional customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In another example communication between and among the various components of may be bi directional. In another example the communication may be carried out via the Internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network and or any other desired communication channel s . In another example each of the components may be operatively connected to each of the other components. In another example some or all of these components may be implemented in a computer system of the type shown in .

Referring now to this figure shows a hardware configuration of computing system according to an embodiment of the present invention. As seen this hardware configuration has at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via a system bus to a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM input output I O adapter for connecting peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives to the bus user interface adapter for connecting a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface device to the bus a communications adapter for connecting the system to a data processing network the Internet an Intranet a local area network LAN etc. and a display adapter for connecting the bus to a display device and or printer e.g. a digital printer or the like .

As described herein mechanisms are provided which allow local HTML content to be personalized using locally cached templates the personalization may be accomplished for example using information that is provided by an external set of data . In various example the local application e.g. HTML application being accessed will allow for some input such as entering geo location data e.g. address zip code etc entering login credentials and or other types of information which may influence the preferences of the user of the application such as sports teams food preferences etc. . The local application will then contact a remote server with the input data and potentially other variables like application version and be provided back one or more customizations to be made to the local HTML. The application will then apply the customizations to the HTML transforming the HTML into a new personalized webpage or website.

In one specific example the transformations could be done using XSLT and or any other appropriate technologies .

In another specific example multiple transformations can occur on a given template e.g. set of HTML over time. In another specific example each template associated with each of the multiple transformations may be saved. In another specific example the template associated with the final one of the multiple transformations may be saved. In another specific example the transformations can be reversed e.g. if information is cleared and or an event like a logout occurs .

In another specific example some applications may keep the transformed personalized content only in short term volatile memory as opposed to long term non volatile memory in cases where a logout is required each time.

In another example a method for converting an existing web application to a mobile application comprises converting a web application to a mobile web application by parsing and separating the web application into static content and a dynamic content with data sources rendering the static content as hypertext markup language HTML pages with the links between the HTML pages converted to local links and references to dynamic content changed to Representational State Transfer REST requests utilizing a mobile gateway on a remote server for accessing the dynamic content with the data sources converting a section of a webpage for the mobile web application into a set of separate webpages views packaging the views into the mobile web application and installing the mobile web application on a mobile device.

In another example a series of templates may be provided. Each template may have one or more placeholders to indicate where dynamic content could be inserted by one or more REST interfaces see e.g. and of showing placeholders for the geo location and user identity fields .

In one specific example there are a finite number of templates in the web space that satisfy the vast majority of websites. Templates may be provided for the most common mobile user cases and based upon the customizations e.g. the dynamic content placeholders provide holding places for retrieving RESTful data from the enterprise services.

In another example in order to create a personalization template tooling is provided that allows personalization placeholder s to be entered a template created and one or more REST services to be generated which provide personalized data.

As described herein an example of what is meant by tooling is a graphical software tool that provides a What you see is what you get type of development experience. Using such tools you can for example point to an existing web site and drag and drop the components widgets of the page to form a mobile view . Once you have this you can then decide for example which parts can be deemed dynamic and would require the developer to connect to a server to get the data userid of a user would be one example .

In one example the dynamic aspects may be identified e.g. automatically by the tooling by the syntax defined by JSPs similar notions exist in PHP as well . For example the JSP tag allows the insertion of scripts or code snippets and the tag allows the output of dynamic content. These hints may be used to automatically extract out these elements and generate a RESTful service.

In another specific example a template for providing transformations with an application that works with personalized content may be provided. In one specific example an implementation may be as follows 1 Automatically generating the template based on some introspection of the content changes which will occur after personalization data is entered 2 Automatically generating a REST service which provides the personalized data needed for the template to provide the transformations 3 Providing a client application infrastructure which automatically transforms HTML content into personalized content using the template 4 Providing e.g. the infrastructure with policies which allow the personalized content to be persisted kept for a single session only and or to be available for a set amount of time.

In another specific example templates may be provided which allow for multiple phases of personalization to occur including but not limited to log in credentials geo location sports team preferences food preferences new topic preferences product brand preferences and or product shipping preferences.

In another specific example an infrastructure may be provided that will allow for multiple phases of personalization to be applied and or removed.

In another specific example an implementation may be as follows Step 1 User utilizes tooling to prepackage web artifacts into an application in this example the application is a mobile retail store . Step 2 User either generates a template or uses the tooling to generate the template based on a running web application e.g. in the form of default HTML . For the purposes of this example it will be assumed that a running web application was accessed remotely and that the tooling is used to generate the template and REST service s . Step 3 Tooling is used to capture changes which occur for each personalized content addition for example geo location is added and a template is created for when geo location data is provided in order to personalize what is available in local stores another example is that the user may log in which allows the user to have a new button for my orders in addition to adding shipping preferences to the cart. These personalization differences are used to create templates which help transform the generic default web artifacts to personalized ones. Step 4 The tooling helps generate REST service s for each template s personalized data. The tooling allows the user to optimize how this data is fetched e.g. rather than fetching the data from a web generated request . Step 5 Each of the template s are bundled in the application with the transformation infrastructure. Policies are set as to how long personalization information will be kept. Step 6 The application is provided to customers. Step 7 When the application is loaded it would initially come up with the default non transformed unpersonalized data and then personalization would be applied as described herein .

As described herein a method and associated system and algorithm are provided for transforming a local application having local content into transformed content from a remote application e.g. external source server cloud source utilizing local templates. The method of one example comprises providing a template for transforming local content to personalized content for a local e.g. client application generating REST services needed for the template to transform the content providing a client application infrastructure which automatically changes the local context utilizing the template and the REST services supported by a remote application and utilizing the client application infrastructure to transform the local application to utilize the personalized content.

Referring now to a method for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is shown. As seen in this the method of this embodiment comprises at generating by a processor the template including local content at identifying in the template by the processor at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted at adding the placeholder by the processor at the identified location in the template and at generating by the processor one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder in cooperation with the server.

In another example the above steps may be carried out in the order recited or the steps may be carried out in another order.

Referring now to a computer implemented system for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided. This system may include the following elements a template generating element configured to generate the template including local content an identifying element configured to identify in the template at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted an adding element configured to add the placeholder at the identified location in the template and a services generating element configured to generate one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder by the mobile device in cooperation with the server.

Further as seen the system may include receiving element for receiving data. In one specific example the receiving element receives one or more existing webpages. In another specific example the received webpage s may be used as a basis for generating one or more templates.

In addition as seen the system may include output element for outputting data. In one specific example the output element outputs one or more templates and or one or more services e.g. REST services .

In another example communication between and among the various components of may be bi directional. In another example the communication may be carried out via the Internet an intranet a local area network a wide area network and or any other desired communication channel s . In another example each of the components may be operatively connected to each of the other components. In another example some or all of these components may be implemented in a computer system of the type shown in .

In one specific example the local content is selected from a group including but not limited to HTML CSS and or JavaScript.

In another specific example the template is generated based on personalization data entered by a user.

In another specific example the template further comprises supporting multiple phases of personalization selected from a group including but not limited to login credentials geo location sports team preferences food preferences new topic preferences product brand preferences and or product shipping preferences.

In another specific example mechanisms may be provided for supporting a policy for handling personalized data selected from a group including but not limited to persistent single session and persistent for an elapsed time.

As described herein fetching of data from a remote server may be used to customize a local application e.g. transforming local application content into personalized content based upon instruction s which are fetched from an external server .

In one specific example mechanisms may be provided for transforming application cached HTML into personalized content.

As described herein various embodiments may be provided in the context of dynamic aggregation and personalization.

As described herein various mechanisms may provide for a local HTML transformations for personalization b mobile HTML transformations for personalization c personalizing cached HTML content d personalizing stored HTML content e personalization through transformation of HTML content and or f personalization through transformation of cached HTML content.

As described herein various embodiments may be provided in the context of a Converged Communications Mobile applications b Software Application development software c Software Application server middleware d Web technology Content management and use e Web technology Pervasive and or f Web technology Wireless.

As described herein mechanisms are provided to enable a user to change a user interface of one or more HTML pages using one or more templates.

As described herein mechanisms are provided to enable a server to provide to a device e.g. a mobile device a list of transformations that can be run on one or more HTML pages. In one specific example one or more RESTful services may be run on the one or more HTML pages.

In one embodiment a computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a device for providing information to be displayed in a user interface of the device is provided the program of instructions when executing performing the following steps obtaining a template of a graphical user interface storing the template locally at the device receiving data that is input to the device obtaining from a server based at least in part upon the data a set of instructions comprising at least one customization to the template applying the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface and displaying the customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In one example the graphical user interface is provided in one or more of a a mobile app or b a web browser or c a combination thereof.

In another example the template is received from the server after a request for the template is transmitted to the server from the device.

In another example the set of instructions is received from the server after a request for the set of instructions is transmitted to the server from the device.

In another example the program of instructions when executing further performs the steps of receiving additional data that is input to the device obtaining from the server based at least in part upon the additional data an additional set of instructions comprising at least one additional customization to the template applying the additional customization to the stored template to generate an additional customized graphical user interface and displaying the additional customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In another example the data is transmitted to the server from the device in order to obtain the set of instructions from the server.

In another embodiment a method for providing information to be displayed in a user interface of a device is provided wherein the device comprises a processor the method comprising obtaining by the processor a template of a graphical user interface storing by the processor the template locally at the device receiving by the processor data that is input to the device obtaining from a server by the processor based at least in part upon the data a set of instructions comprising at least one customization to the template applying by the processor the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface and displaying by the processor the customized graphical user interface to in the user interface of the device.

In another embodiment a computer implemented system for providing information to be displayed in a user interface of a device is provided the system comprising a receiving element configured to receive data that is input to the device an obtaining element configured to obtain from a server a a template of a graphical user interface and b based at least in part upon the data a set of instructions comprising at least one customization to the template a storing element in operative communication with the obtaining element configured to store the template locally at the device a customization element in operative communication with the obtaining element configured to apply the customization to the stored template to generate a customized graphical user interface and a displaying element in operative communication with the customization element configured to display the customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In one example the receiving element is further configured to receive additional data that is input to the device the obtaining element is further configured to obtain from the server based at least in part upon the additional data an additional set of instructions comprising at least one additional customization to the stored template the customization element is further configured to apply the additional customization to the stored template to generate an additional customized graphical user interface and the displaying element is further configured to display the additional customized graphical user interface in the user interface of the device.

In one embodiment a computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the computer for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the program of instructions when executing performing the following steps generating the template including local content identifying in the template at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted adding the placeholder at the identified location in the template and generating one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder by the mobile device in cooperation with the server.

In one example the local content is selected from one or more of a HTML b CSS c JavaScript and d any combination thereof.

In another example the template supports multiple phases of personalization selected from one or more of a login credentials b geo location c sports team preferences d food preferences e new topic preferences f product brand preferences g product shipping preferences and h any combination thereof.

In another example the template is provided to the mobile device in one or more of a a mobile app or b a web browser or c a combination thereof.

In another example the template is received from the server after a request for the template is transmitted to the server from the mobile device.

In another example the dynamic content is based at least in part upon input from a component of the mobile device.

In another embodiment a method for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the method comprising generating by a processor the template including local content identifying in the template by the processor at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted adding the placeholder by the processor at the identified location in the template and generating by the processor one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder in cooperation with the server.

In one example the local content is selected from one or more of a HTML b CSS c JavaScript and d any combination thereof.

In another example the template supports multiple phases of personalization selected from one or more of a login credentials b geo location c sports team preferences d food preferences e new topic preferences f product brand preferences g product shipping preferences and h any combination thereof.

In another example the template is provided to the mobile device in one or more of a a mobile app or b a web browser or c a combination thereof.

In another example the template is received from the server after a request for the template is transmitted to the server from the mobile device.

In another example the dynamic content is based at least in part upon input from a component of the mobile device.

In another embodiment a computer implemented system for providing a template to be personalized by a mobile device in cooperation with a server is provided the system comprising a template generating element configured to generate the template including local content an identifying element configured to identify in the template at least one location where a placeholder is to be added to indicate where dynamic content is to be inserted an adding element configured to add the placeholder at the identified location in the template and a services generating element configured to generate one or more representational state transfer services to be used to apply the dynamic content to the placeholder by the mobile device in cooperation with the server.

In one example the local content is selected from one or more of a HTML b CSS c JavaScript and d any combination thereof.

In another example the template supports multiple phases of personalization selected from one or more of a login credentials b geo location c sports team preferences d food preferences e new topic preferences f product brand preferences g product shipping preferences and h any combination thereof.

In another example the template is provided to the mobile device in one or more of a a mobile app or b a web browser or c a combination thereof.

In another example the template is received from the server after a request for the template is transmitted to the server from the mobile device.

In another example the dynamic content is based at least in part upon input from a component of the mobile device.

Another example related to REST operation is as follows. There are the client side API calls that are in javascript form and the server side hosted where the original JSPS were located that host the REST services that communicate with the databases and other enterprise data services.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any programming language or any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like or a procedural programming language such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention may be described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods systems and or computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus or other devices provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustrations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It is noted that the foregoing has outlined some of the objects and embodiments of the present invention. This invention may be used for many applications. Thus although the description is made for particular arrangements and methods the intent and concept of the invention is suitable and applicable to other arrangements and applications. It will be clear to those skilled in the art that modifications to the disclosed embodiments can be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The described embodiments ought to be construed to be merely illustrative of some of the features and applications of the invention. Other beneficial results can be realized by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or modifying the invention in ways known to those familiar with the art. In addition all of the examples disclosed herein are intended to be illustrative and not restrictive.

