---

title: Social filtering of user interface
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes identifying a content object for display based at least in part on one or more filtering criteria. The filtering criteria is a measure of suitability of each content object for presentation based at least in part on social-graph information between a first user and one or more second users or a current geo-location of the first user. The method also includes applying the filtering criteria to the content object; and providing for display on a user interface (UI) the content object based on whether the content object is suitable for presentation based at least in part on the filtering criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582589&OS=09582589&RS=09582589
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09582589
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments one or more content objects associated with one or more friends of the user displayed on a user interface UI may be filtered based one or more criteria. For example the content objects may be images or a status update directed to the user that are displayed on a UI of a computing device. One example criterion may be an amount of closeness between the user and each friend based on an amount of overlap between the user profile or other social graph information of each friend and the user. For example the UI may display content objects from friends with user profiles with a high amount of commonality with the user such as for example age education interests or religion. As another example the lock screen may display content objects from friends who based on social graph information are patrons of the same establishments or like similar music books TV shows or sports teams.

Another filtering criterion may be a maturity threshold level for particular geo location where content objects with a maturity rating above the threshold may be displayed on the UI. For example the maturity threshold might be lower when the mobile computing device is at an adult establishment such as for example a bar or dance club relative to the maturity threshold when the mobile computing device is at a more family friendly or upscale location such as for example DISNEYLAND a church or high end restaurant. As an example the lock screen may allow selection content objects with a high maturity rating shared by friends when the social networking system determines the user is currently at a bar. As another example the UI may prevent selection of content objects with a high maturity rating but below the maturity threshold associated with DISNEYLAND.

In particular embodiments the content objects displayed on the UI may be dynamically adjusted based on the current location of a mobile computing device. For example content objects with a high maturity rating may be displayed on the UI while the mobile computing device is currently at a dance club but replaced with content objects with a lower maturity rating when the mobile computing device is later determined to be located at a church.

Another filtering criterion for content objects to be displayed on the UI may be based on the user profile of the user. For example certain content objects may be selected for display on the UI of the mobile computing device based on particular aspects of the user such as age religion interests etc. As an example content objects with a high maturity rating shared by a friend may not be selected for display on the UI based on the user profile indicating the user may be socially conservative e.g. based on age and religion .

Another filtering criterion for content objects may be based on social spam reporting. Users on the social networking system may provide feedback that particular content objects may be objectionable. For example a content object shared by a friend that has been flagged by other users as being objectionable may be prevented from being displayed on the UI.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . In particular embodiments selection of content objects shared by friends for presentation on UI of client system may be based at least in part on the connection information described above. A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposure to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. As described below content objects shared by friends of the user that are stored on social networking or third party system may displayed in a user interface UI of client system . In particular embodiments filtering of particular content objects may be performed such that presentation of particular content objects may be suppressed on a UI that may be publicly accessible. As an example and not by way of limitation the content objects for presentation on client system may be identified based at least in part on one or more filtering criteria such as for example an amount of commonality between the user generating the content object and the user of client system based at least in part on social graph or user profile information a maturity threshold level associated with a particular geo location of client system social spam reporting or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments the filtering criteria may be considered a measure of suitability of each content object for presentation on a UI of client system and one or more filtering criteria may be applied to the content objects shared by friends of the user. Although this disclosure describes identification of content objects by a particular computing system based on particular filtering criteria this disclosure contemplates identification of content objects by any suitable computing system such as for example a third party system or client system based on any suitable criteria.

As described below connections of the user associated with client system and friends on social networking system with other users of social networking system may be stored on a social graph. In particular embodiments a particular filtering criterion may be the proximity between the user and the friend that generated each content object. Furthermore social networking system may access the social graph of the user and determine a proximity between the user and the friend that generated each content object that is considered for presentation on one or more UIs of client system . Alternatively social networking system may ranked by degrees of separation between nodes of the social graph where determination of degrees of separation between nodes of the social graph is described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. entitled System and Method for Managing Information Flow Between Members of an Online Social Network filed on Dec. which is incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may identify for presentation a content object generated by a friend connected to the user by an edge over a content object generated by a friend connected to the user though another friend. As another example social networking system may identify for presentation a content object generated by a friend connected to the user by a friendship edge over a content object generated by a friend connected to the user though a work relationship edge. As described below social graph information may include information related to activity e.g. liking or check in associated with a concept node such as for example a business. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may identify one or more content objects shared by a friend of the user that is a patron of the same establishments or entertainment venues as the user. As another example social networking system may identify one or more content objects shared by a friend of the user that likes of the same sports teams movies books or television shows as the user.

As described above social networking system may store user profile data associated with the user. In particular embodiments social networking or third party system may access the user profile data of the user and each friend sharing one or more content objects with the user. Furthermore social networking or third party system may identify one or more content objects for presentation on one or more UIs of client system based at least in part on a particular filtering criterion such as for example an amount of overlap between user profile data between the user and each friend sharing a content object. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may identify for presentation a content object from one or more friends with user profiles that have a degree of commonality with the profile of the user such as for example similar age education interests or religion.

In particular embodiments a filtering criterion may be based on a maturity rating associated with each content object. Furthermore social networking or third party system may associate a maturity rating with one or more content objects. As an example and not by way of limitation content objects e.g. check ins from particular geo locations e.g. bars or casinos or particular third party systems or websites e.g. associated with adult entertainment or online dating may be considered adult oriented and may have a relatively high maturity rating. As another example content objects from particular geo locations or third party systems e.g. DISNEYLAND or DISNEY.com may be considered family friendly and may have a relatively low maturity rating. In particular embodiments the identification of content objects shared by friends for presentation on client system may be based at least in part on the maturity rating of each content object relative to a maturity threshold level. As an example and not by way of limitation the maturity threshold level may be based at least in part on information associated with the current geo location of client system . For example the maturity threshold level may be relatively low when the current geo location of client system is at a church while when the current geo location of client system is at a nightclub the maturity threshold level may be relatively high. In particular embodiments identification of content objects for presentation on the UI of client system may determined at least in part on the maturity rating of the content objects in conjunction of user profile information of the user such as for example age religion interests or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation adult oriented content objects with a relatively high maturity rating may be suppressed from being presented based at least in part on user profile information indicating the user may be socially conservative e.g. based on age or religion .

In particular embodiments feedback of users regarding one or more content objects such for example one or more users of social networking system may flag particular content objects stored on social networking system as being objectionable or inappropriate for public viewing may be the basis of a filtering criterion. Furthermore while the particular content object may not be removed from social networking system presentation of the flagged content object on a UI of client system may be suppressed based at least in part on feedback of other users of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may flag content objects with crude language as being offensive. Furthermore a UI of social networking system may include an interactive element for users of social networking system to flag particular content objects as spam. 

In particular embodiments social networking or third party system may poll or ping client system using an activation signal to obtain location information from client system . In particular embodiments the location information may be stored in the location stores of social networking system as described above. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may poll an application or program executed on client system for location data by sending the activation signal to activate the location service of client system . The activation signal may be transmitted using network . In particular embodiments the location service of client system may use one or more methods of location determination such as for example using the location of one or more cellular towers crowd sourced location information associated with a WI FI hotspot or a global positioning system GPS function of client system . As described above social networking system may automatically and without manual input determine a geo location associated with client system based in part on the location data provided by client system . Alternatively social networking or third party system may receive location data of client system through the user initiating a location update through a check in performed by the user or any combination thereof.

As described above the maturity threshold level at a particular moment may be based at least in part on the current geo location of client system . As an example and not by way of limitation social networking or third party system may determine the geo location of client system and access directory information associated with the particular geo location such as for example the type of business or hours of operation to determine the maturity threshold level of the geo location. For example the location data sent from client system may be correlated with directory information associated to determine client system is currently located at a church. Furthermore social networking or third party system may assign a relatively low maturity threshold level to the particular geo location based at least in part on the directory information. In particular embodiments social networking system may identify content objects shared by friends for presentation on the UI of client system that have a maturity rating that is lower than the maturity threshold level associated with the current geo location of client system . As an example and not by way of limitation adult oriented content objects with a relatively high maturity rating may not be identified for presentation on UI of client system when client system is at a geo location with a relatively low maturity threshold level such as for example a petting zoo. As another example adult oriented content objects with a relatively high maturity rating e.g. a notification a friend likes a brand of alcoholic beverages may be identified for presentation on UI of client system when client system is at a geo location with a relatively high maturity threshold level such as for example a liquor store. As described below social networking system may dynamically adjust identification of content objects for presentation on the UI of client system based on movement of client system between geo locations with differing maturity threshold levels.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include an authorization server that allows users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. The authorization server of social networking system may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information or content objects associated with the user can be shared. In particular embodiments the content objects shared by other users and provided by social networking system for presentation on the UI of client system may be restricted by the privacy settings of users of social networking system .

Mobile computing device many include a communication component coupled to antennae A B for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as for example a WI FI network or modem for communicating with a cellular network such third generation mobile telecommunications 3G or Long Term Evolution LTE network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication component for it. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile computing device may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As another example mobile computing device may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3G or LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Mobile computing device may include any suitable communication component for any of these networks where appropriate. Although this disclosure illustrates and describes a particular type of computing device this disclosure contemplates a lock screen implemented on any suitable type of computing device such as for example a personal computer tablet computer connected television or a smartphone.

As described above mobile computing device may communicate with a social networking system through a network as described above. In particular embodiments mobile computing device may receive data corresponding to one or more content objects from the social networking system through the network. In particular embodiments upon powering up mobile computing device may communicate with the social networking or third party system and dynamically request one or more content objects stored on the social networking system for presentation on a particular UI of mobile computing system . As described above one or more of the content objects may be shared on the social networking system by friends of the user. As described below the content objects corresponding to the data received from the social networking system may be presented on one or more UIs of mobile computing device . In particular embodiments mobile computing device may perform application of one or more filtering criteria on content objects received from the social networking system and identify one or more content objects for display on one or more UIs of mobile computing device based at least in part on the application of the filtering criteria.

In particular embodiments a UI of mobile computing device may display content objects shared by friends of the user that may be identified based at least in part on social graph information as described above. In particular embodiments the UI with socially filtered content objects may be a UI such as for example a lock screen of mobile computing device . A lock screen prevents any or a particular interaction with mobile computing device while in a locked mode. The lock screen may be displayed when mobile computing device is in the locked mode and mobile computing device may be released from the locked mode or directed to a personal identification number PIN lock by performing a pre determined touch gesture. In particular embodiments the user may be able to access all or a subset of all the features of mobile computing device available to the user during normal operation of mobile computing device by performing a pre determined touch gesture. Although this disclosure illustrates and describes a particular UI with particular UI elements this disclosure contemplates any suitable UI persistent or non persistent with any suitable UI elements.

In particular embodiments identification of content objects A B for presentation on UI of mobile computing device may be dynamically adjusted based at least in part on movement of mobile computing device between geo locations with differing maturity threshold levels described above. Although this disclosure describes dynamically adjusting identification of socially filtered notifications for presentation based at least in part on a particular filtering criterion this disclosure contemplates dynamically adjusting identification of socially filtered content objects based on any suitable criteria such as for example the time of day. As illustrated in the example of one or more content objects A having a relatively low maturity rating may be presented on UI in response to mobile computing device being at a geo location with a relatively low maturity threshold level such as for example a children s fun house. As an example and not by way of limitation each content objects A presented in UI may have a maturity rating lower than the maturity threshold level associated with the current geo location. Furthermore presentation of content objects B with a maturity rating above the maturity threshold level may be suppressed. As illustrated in the example of one or more content objects B with a relatively high maturity rating may be presented on UI in response to mobile computing device moving from a geo location with a relatively low maturity threshold level to a geo location with a relatively high maturity threshold level such as for example a sports bar. As an example and not by way of limitation content objects B may be assigned a relatively high maturity rating based on content object B having characteristics such as for example graphic violence off color humor being flagged as spam by other users or being associated with an adult oriented entity. Conversely dynamic adjustment of presentation of content objects A B may be performed in response to mobile computing device moving from a geo location with a relatively high maturity threshold level to a geo location with a low maturity threshold level.

Alternatively or in addition identification of content objects for presentation and determination of the maturity threshold level may be based at least in part on the time of day. As an example and not by way of limitation adult oriented content objects B may be identified for presentation on UI during hours with a relatively high maturity threshold level such as for example after 10 PM. Furthermore presentation of content objects A B may be adjusted over time such that content objects A with a relatively low maturity rating may be presented on UI during daytime hours while content objects B with a relatively high maturity rating may be presented during late evening hours.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable like icon. As another example the socialized dash of a client system may include a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable like icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a like edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

