---

title: Lifting trolley
abstract: The present invention relates to a trolley, and more particularly to a lifting trolley capable of raising and lowering goods. The lifting trolley includes a trolley frame, a drive mechanism, and a bearing mechanism. The bearing mechanism is vertically slidably connected to the trolley frame, and the drive mechanism is disposed on the trolley frame and drives the bearing mechanism to slide vertically. Compared with the prior art, the lifting trolley provided by the present invention saves time and effort, is accurate in positioning, and facilitates conveying of goods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09039040&OS=09039040&RS=09039040
owner: DONGGUAN PRESTIGE SPORTING PRODUCTS CO., LTD.
number: 09039040
owner_city: Dongguan, Guangdong
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20131107
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a Chinese Patent Application No. 201310140568.9 filed Apr. 22 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to a trolley and more particularly to a lifting trolley capable of raising and lowering goods.

A trolley is a vehicle pushed and pulled by human strength for conveying and is widely used in production and life because the cost is low the operation is convenient and the short distance conveyance of goods is very convenient. However when goods are large or heavy the operation process of placing the goods on a carrying mechanism of a trolley or removing the goods from the carrying mechanism of the trolley is difficult and particularly it is more difficult to move goods in a high position to the trolley or move goods from the trolley to a high position.

Therefore currently an improved trolley is available a carrying mechanism thereof is movably connected to a trolley frame by a chain and the chain is operated manually through human strength to adjust height of a carrying rack so as to conveniently convey goods in a high position. However the trolley also has defects. If the chain is pulled directly by human strength to adjust the height of the carrying rack a lot of strength is demanded if a pulley block is disposed on the trolley to reduce the strength needed a long distance needs to be pulled when the chain is pulled by human strength through the pulley block to adjust the height of the carrying rack thereby wasting much time.

An objective of the present invention is to provide a lifting trolley that saves time and effort. The lifting trolley raises and lowers a carrying rack automatically so as to conveniently and rapidly convey and handle goods.

In order to achieve the objective the present invention provides a lifting trolley. The lifting trolley includes a trolley frame a drive mechanism and a bearing mechanism. The bearing mechanism is vertically slidably connected to the trolley frame and the drive mechanism is disposed on the trolley frame and drives the bearing mechanism to slide.

Compared with the prior art in the lifting trolley provided by the present invention the drive mechanism drives the bearing mechanism to slide vertically along the trolley frame so as to replace the human strength based operation in the prior art thereby saving time and effort. On the other hand the bearing mechanism of the lifting trolley provided by the present invention is slidably connected to the trolley frame so that the positioning of the bearing mechanism is accurate thereby facilitating conveying and handling of goods.

In one embodiment the drive mechanism includes a screw a nut and a power unit the screw is vertically pivotably connected to the trolley frame the nut is fixed on the bearing mechanism and is connected through threads to the screw and the power unit is fixed on one end of the trolley frame and drives the screw to rotate the drive mechanism drives the screw to rotate to drive the nut to move vertically relative to the screw so as to drive the bearing mechanism to slide vertically along the trolley frame.

In one embodiment the drive mechanism further includes a worm shaft and a worm gear the worm shaft is connected to an output end of the power unit the worm gear is socket connected to and fixed on one end of the screw and the worm gear is engaged with the worm shaft the output end of the power unit is connected to the worm shaft to drive the worm gear to rotate so as to change a direction of a driving force of the power unit so that a mounting position of the power unit may be arbitrarily set according to needs thereby making the structure of the lifting trolley of the present invention more compact.

In one embodiment the bearing mechanism includes a connecting plate and a bearing plate the connecting plate is slidably connected to the trolley frame and the bearing plate is rotatably connected to the connecting plate when the lifting trolley is not in use the bearing plate may be rotated about the connecting plate so as to be folded so that the lifting trolley of the present invention has a smaller volume in a non working state thereby reducing the area occupied by storage.

In one embodiment the connecting plate has a stopper portion and when the bearing plate is unfolded relative to the connecting plate one end of the bearing plate is pressed against the stopper portion so as to limit an unfolding position of the bearing plate thereby loading goods conveniently.

In one embodiment the lifting trolley further includes support feet and the support feet are foldably disposed on two sides of a lower end of the trolley frame. When the lifting trolley is in use the support feet are unfolded so that the support feet and the trolley frame form multiple support points not on a same line and therefore supporting and positioning of the lifting trolley on the ground are very reliable thereby resulting in high safety when the lifting trolley is not in use the support feet are folded so that the volume of the lifting trolley of the present invention is smaller thereby reducing the area occupied by storage.

In one embodiment an end of the support foot is provided with a foot mat when the lifting trolley loads and unloads goods on the uneven ground the large area of contact between the foot mat and the ground ensures the supporting and positioning of the lifting trolley on the ground.

In one embodiment the trolley frame includes a main frame body and two transverse supports the main frame body is vertically disposed the two transverse supports are symmetrically fixed on the two sides of the lower end of the main frame body respectively and the support feet are pivotably connected to the transverse supports the support foot pivots about the transverse support so as to be unfolded or folded.

In one embodiment the lifting trolley further includes a wheel and the wheel is pivotably connected to the lower end of the trolley frame.

In one embodiment the lifting trolley further includes a handle and the handle is disposed at an upper end of the trolley frame the lifting trolley can be conveniently pushed to move by operating the handle.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications therein may be affected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the invention.

The invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this invention will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the invention and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the invention are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the invention. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same thing can be said in more than one way. Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and in no way limits the scope and meaning of the invention or of any exemplified term. Likewise the invention is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on another element it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may be present therebetween. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on another element there are no intervening elements present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising or includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features regions integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features regions integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompasses both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present invention and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on attached to connected to coupled with contacting etc. another element it can be directly on attached to connected to coupled with or contacting the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being for example directly on directly attached to directly connected to directly coupled with or directly contacting another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

As used herein around about substantially or approximately shall generally mean within 20 percent In one embodiment within 10 percent and more In one embodiment within 5 percent of a given value or range. Numerical quantities given herein are approximate meaning that the term around about substantially or approximately can be inferred if not expressly stated.

The description will be made as to the embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A lifting trolley shown in and includes a trolley frame a drive mechanism and a bearing mechanism . The bearing mechanism is vertically slidably mounted on the trolley frame . The drive mechanism is fixed on the trolley frame and drives the bearing mechanism to slide vertically.

The trolley frame includes a main frame body and two transverse supports . The main frame body is vertically disposed. The two transverse supports are symmetrically fixed on two sides of a lower end of the main frame body respectively. The lower end of the main frame body is pivotably connected to an axle . Two ends of the axle are each connected to a wheel . An upper end of the main frame body is provided with an operation portion . The two sides of the main frame body are further provided with a slide groove . The bearing mechanism is connected to the slide groove and slides vertically along the slide groove . The drive mechanism is fixed on the main frame body and drives the bearing mechanism to slide vertically.

Referring to to the drive mechanism includes a screw a nut not shown and a power unit . The power unit is a motor. The screw is vertically pivotably connected to the main frame body . The nut is fixed on the bearing mechanism . The nut and the screw are fit connected to each other. The power unit is fixed on the lower end of the main frame body and drives the screw to rotate so that the nut and the bearing mechanism fixedly connected to the nut slide vertically along the main frame body . Further the drive mechanism includes a battery . The battery is also mounted at the lower end of the main frame body . The battery is connected to the power unit so as to provide power for the power unit . When the power in the battery is insufficient the battery may be removed to be replaced with a new battery and may also be charged definitely.

The drive mechanism further includes a worm shaft not shown and a worm gear . An output end of the power unit is disposed laterally and perpendicular to the screw . The output end of the power unit is connected to the worm shaft. The worm gear is fixedly socket connected to the screw and the worm gear is engaged with the worm shaft. When the power unit works and drives the worm shaft to rotate the worm shaft drives the worm gear connected to the worm shaft to rotate so as to drive the screw to rotate so that the nut and the bearing mechanism fixedly connected to the nut vertically slide along the main frame body . The power unit is transmission connected to the screw through the worm shaft and the worm gear so that the laterally disposed power unit drives the vertically disposed screw to rotate. By disposing the worm gear worm shaft structure a direction of a driving force of the power unit may be changed so that a mounting position of the power unit may be arbitrarily set according to needs thereby making the structure of the lifting trolley of the present invention more compact.

As shown in the bearing mechanism includes a connecting plate and a bearing plate . Slide blocks corresponding to the slide groove are fixed on two sides of the connecting plate . The slide block is embedded in the slide groove and may slide vertically along the slide groove . The nut corresponding to the screw is fixed on the connecting plate . When the screw driven by the power unit rotates the nut fitting the screw drives the connecting plate to slide vertically. The bearing plate is rotatably connected to the connecting plate . When the lifting trolley is not in use the bearing plate may be rotated about the connecting plate so as to be folded so that the lifting trolley has a smaller volume in a non working state thereby reducing the area occupied by storage when the lifting trolley is in use the bearing plate may be rotated about the connecting plate so as to be unfolded to load and unload goods. Referring to the connecting plate has a stopper portion . The bearing plate rotates about the connecting plate until the bearing plate is pressed against the stopper portion so as to limit an unfolding position of the bearing plate . Further the connecting plate has a pivotable connecting position and the bearing plate is pivotably connected to the connecting plate at the pivotable connecting position . A distance exists between the pivotable connecting position and a side edge of the connecting plate and the stopper portion is formed between the pivotable connecting position and the side edge of the connecting plate . The bearing plate pivots about the connecting plate until the side edge of the bearing plate is pressed against the stopper portion and at the moment an angle being substantially 90 is formed between the bearing plate and the connecting plate .

As shown in and the lifting trolley further includes two support feet . The two support feet are symmetrically pivotably connected to the two transverse supports . When the two support feet pivot and unfold towards the outside of the main frame body the support feet and the trolley frame form multiple support points not on a same line so that supporting and positioning of the lifting trolley of the present invention on the ground are very reliable thereby resulting in high safety. When the lifting trolley is not in use the two support feet may pivot and be folded towards the inside of the main frame body so that the volume of the lifting trolley of the present invention is smaller thereby reducing the area occupied by storage. In one embodiment an end of the support foot is provided with a foot mat . A side contacting the ground of the foot mat is of a planar structure with a large area so that when the lifting trolley loads and unloads goods on the uneven ground the large area of contact between the foot mat and the ground ensures the supporting and positioning of the lifting trolley on the ground.

The following illustrates in detail a working process of the lifting trolley of the present invention with reference to to . In a non working state the lifting trolley is in a folded state shown in when the lifting trolley is in use the two support feet pivot and unfold towards the outside of the main frame body and the two foot mats are supported on the ground and together with the two wheels form four positioning points not on a same line so as to support and position the lifting trolley so that the lifting trolley is in an upright state the bearing plate is rotated about the connecting plate until one end of the bearing plate is pressed against the stopper portion and at the moment an angle being substantially 90 is formed between the bearing plate and the connecting plate as shown in the lifting trolley is pushed to to be conveyed goods the power unit is enabled the power unit drives through transmission performed by the worm gear worm shaft the screw to rotate the screw rotates to drive the nut to drive the connecting plate and the bearing plate and the connecting plate and the bearing plate slide along the trolley frame so as to be flush with the to be conveyed goods the lifting trolley is pushed forward until the bearing plate holds up the to be conveyed goods from the bottom the lifting trolley is pushed to a destination of the conveying the power unit is enabled the power unit drives through transmission performed by the worm gear worm shaft the screw to rotate the screw drives the nut to drive the connecting plate and the bearing plate and the connecting plate and the bearing plate slide along the trolley frame to a target position the lifting trolley is pushed backwards until the bearing plate departs from the goods. A conveying process of the lifting trolley of the present invention is completed above.

Compared with the prior art in the lifting trolley provided by the present invention the bearing mechanism is slidably connected to the trolley frame the power unit is used to drive the worm shaft and the worm gear the horizontal output of the power unit is converted into vertical output and the screw and the nut are used to drive the bearing mechanism to slide vertically along the trolley frame so as to replace the human strength based operation in the prior art thereby saving time and effort further the screw fits the nut so that the positioning of the bearing mechanism is accurate thereby facilitating conveying and handling of goods.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the invention has been presented only for the purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention and their practical application so as to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention and various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains without departing from its spirit and scope. Accordingly the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and the exemplary embodiments described therein.

