---

title: System for evaluating infant movement using gesture recognition
abstract: A system and method for measuring the movement of one or more limbs of an infant using a video system for the purpose of determining whether the infant suffers from or is at risk of suffering from a medical condition such as cerebral palsy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232912&OS=09232912&RS=09232912
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09232912
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 218 528 filed Aug. 26 2011 and entitled SYSTEM FOR EVALUATING INFANT MOVEMENT and from U.S. Patent Application No. 61 377 207 filed on Aug. 26 2010 and entitled DEVICE TO MEASURE MOVEMENT METHODS OF USE THEREOF the disclosures of which including the drawings are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Over the past two decades the incidence of preterm births has increased dramatically. Technological advances in the medical and health sciences have increased the survivability of these preterm infants. The increase in survival however has been accompanied by an increase in the incidence of long term complications associated with premature births such as cerebral palsy CP with approximately 10 of preterm infants developing CP. Early diagnosis of CP and other motor abnormalities may enable clinicians to implement early interventions and provide an improved quality of life. Diagnosis is usually made between several months and 2 years of age.

Attempts have been made to develop techniques to be able to detect movement patterns predictive of neurological dysfunction such as CP. One conventional tool for diagnosis of CP is the physician s neurological exam. This exam focuses on the infant s reflexes but places little importance on spontaneous movements. It has been found however that spontaneous movements have a higher predictive value for the development of cerebral palsy compared to reflexive movements. As a result early diagnosis of CP is often unreliable.

Another tool for diagnosis of CP is the so called General Movements Assessment GMA a technique focused on an infant s spontaneous movements. The GMA is an observational assessment that judges the quality of infant movements and identifies key movements which are markers of neurological dysfunction. General Movements GMs of the infant are defined as movements involving the entire body of the infant. Specifically GMs are a distinct movement pattern carried out spontaneously without external stimulation and seen in fetuses of nine 9 weeks gestational age until about twenty one 21 weeks post term. In normal infants these movements are elegant smooth and variable in sequence intensity and speed with a clear beginning and end. The GMA identifies cramped synchronized general movements CSGMs as one type of abnormal movement. These movements are rigid in nature and involve an infant s limbs moving in synchrony with the limb muscles contracting and relaxing almost simultaneously. The presence of cramped synchronized movements has been shown to be highly predictive value for the development of cerebral palsy.

Conventional approaches to analyzing infant movement involve directly observing or videotaping subjects for variable periods of time and then qualitatively analyzing their movements using validated movement scales. One problem with video direct observation is observer fatigue. One study focusing on natural patterns of physical activity in 6 8 year old children indicated that with a 3 second observation protocol a typical observer needs a substantial break after about 20 minutes. Moreover attempting to quantify activity of four 4 limbs in a preterm infant by direct observation is a challenging task even for the most adept observer. In addition the clinician must have extensive training in order to accurately carry out these techniques. The time commitment for appropriate training is not always feasible for the neonatal physician or occupational therapist.

The present invention comprises a system for determining an infant s risk for experiencing a medical disorder such as a neurological or motor skills disorder. In one embodiment the system comprises one or more wireless accelerometers for attachment to one or more extremities of an infant subject with each accelerometer configured to measure physical movement from one of the subject s extremities such as an arm and or a leg. The wireless accelerometers preferably weigh less than 5 grams and have a surface area of 1 cmor less in order to facilitate their use with infants. The system further comprises a base station in wireless communication with the accelerometers and a processing circuit electrically coupled to the base station. The processing circuit which can be in a computer or server is adapted to perform statistical analyses of data from the accelerometers and to compare the processed data to a reference standard in order to determine whether the subject is at risk of experiencing the medical disorder. The processing circuit can utilize a statistical machine learning technique such as Na ve Bayes Support Vector Machines and a pruned Decision Tree. The medical condition being diagnosed can be for example cerebral palsy mental retardation autism and or intraventricular hemorrhage.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a gesture recognition system for determining an infant subject s risk for experiencing a medical disorder such as cerebral palsy mental retardation autism or intraventricular hemorrhage. The present gesture recognition system includes an optical input device for obtaining optical data of the subject. The optical input device can be a camera or more preferably can be an infrared source and an image sensor in which case the infrared source preferably projects structured light and the image sensor is an active pixel sensor such as a CMOS sensor. The gesture recognition system further comprises processing circuitry in communication with the optical input device for creating a point cloud or depth image of the subject using the optical data obtained by the optical input device in order to create a representational image of at least some of the subject s extremities. The processing circuitry is further adapted to determine movement parameters of the subject s extremities based on the representational image including acceleration and time data and to then evaluate the determined movement parameters to determine whether the subject s gestures comprise Cramped Synchronized General Movements thereby determining whether the subject is at risk of experiencing the medical disorder. The processing circuitry communicates with a user via a communications interface that receives information from the processing circuitry and provides commands to the gesture recognition system. In one embodiment the processing circuitry and communications interface are included in a computer system although they need not be part of the same physical device. The communications interface can be implemented in a mobile device for example.

The processing circuitry is preferably in communication with computer memory comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium which is encoded with computer readable program code for accomplishing the foregoing tasks and determining whether the subject s gestures comprise Cramped Synchronized General Movements. For example the processing circuitry can be adapted to determine a maximum acceleration magnitude of a plurality of limbs of the subject and or to determine a minimum across a 2 second window of the maximum acceleration magnitude of all limbs of the subject. The processing circuit further preferably utilizes a statistical machine learning technique such as na ve Bayes classifier a support vector machine or a pruned decision tree.

The present invention also comprises a method for diagnosing whether an infant subject is at risk for a predetermined medical condition such as cerebral palsy mental retardation autism or intraventricular hemorrhage. The method is particularly useful for diagnosing infants born prematurely. The method involves measuring the movements of a plurality of the subject s limbs wherein the measuring is performed by a plurality of wireless accelerometers attached to the plurality of limbs. The plurality of accelerometers provides data wirelessly to a base station which either then processes the data or transfers it to a device with a processor capable of performing such data processing including normalizing the data. One or more features is then calculated using the normalized data and the features are compared to a reference standard to determine whether the subject demonstrates certain predetermined movements which indicate that the subject is at risk for a medical condition. The presence of the predetermined movements such as Cramped Synchronized General Movements indicates that the subject may be at risk for a neurological or motor skills impairment.

As used herein the following terms and variations thereof have the meanings given below unless a different meaning is clearly intended by the context in which such term is used.

 Adapted to in regard to a processing circuit refers to the processing circuit being configured employed implemented or programmed as well as any combination thereof to carry out a process function step or routine.

 Base station refers to an electronic component of the present invention comprising a receiver or transceiver and circuitry adapted to receive data from the wireless accelerometers of the present system. The base station may also comprise circuitry for processing and or further transmitting such data as described herein. The base station may be a separate electronic component or may be a computer system with appropriate hardware or software for receiving and processing data from wireless accelerometers.

 Communication interface refers to a component of the present system by which information from processing circuitry of the present system is provided to a user of the present system and or from which commands are input by a user of the system. The interface can comprise the screen of a tablet computer for example.

 Computer system refers to an electronic data processing device adapted to execute software instructions. By way of example and not limitation a computer system can include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer e.g. an iPAD a smart phone e.g. an iPHONE or other data processing device.

 Depth image refers to an image that contains information relating to the distance of a portion of an object from a predetermined point or location in particular from a camera or other optical input device. A depth image can be in the form of a visible image or in the form of a data file containing image and distance information for example.

 Gesture refers to a movement of a part of a subject s body in particular motion of an extremity such as an arm or leg.

 Gesture recognition refers to the determination and or measurement of a parameter associated with a movement of a part of a subject s body such as the direction or speed of movement acceleration or other parameter.

 Infant refers to a subject who is less than 2 years of age preferably less than 1 year old and more preferably less than 6 months old although being at least newborn.

 Mobile device refers to a device which can communicate through a wireless communication platform such as WiFi or a cellular network for example a mobile phone laptop computer or tablet computer.

 Point cloud refers to a set of data points in a three dimensional coordinate system generally representing the surface of an object.

 Representational image refers to an image of the external form of a subject created from optical data which represents at least portions of that external form in particular portions of the extremities and or trunk of the subject. A representational image can be formed from a point cloud and or can comprise a stick figure representation.

 Software program refers to a collection of processor executable code or code segments that provide instructions telling a processor what to do. As used herein the term software program can include software firmware middleware testware or microcode as well as any combination thereof.

 Stick figure refers to an image or representation in which portions of a subject s body such as the arms legs and trunk are represented by straight lines.

 Structured light refers to a pattern of pixels e.g. points grids or horizontal bars which are projected onto an object. Structured light is used to calculate the depth and surface information of the object.

 Wireless accelerometer refers to an electronic component of the present system comprising an accelerometer and a transmitter for wirelessly transmitting data gathered by the accelerometer.

The term comprise and variations of the term such as comprising and comprises are not intended to exclude other additives components integers or steps. The terms a an and the and similar referents used herein are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless their usage in context indicates otherwise.

The present system measures quantifies and analyzes spontaneous movements of infants in order to predict the likelihood that an infant may suffer from a neurological disorder. In one embodiment the system includes one or more wireless accelerometers adapted to be reversibly attached to one or more extremities the limbs hands or feet of an infant at least one base station in wireless communication with the accelerometers and software running on the base station or on another device which analyzes the resultant signals from the accelerometers. The wireless accelerometers detect and measure physical movement of the infant and this data is transmitted to the base station which records the data during a predetermined monitoring time period.

Generally an accelerometer measures changes in velocity over time m s . The accelerometer of the present system preferably weighs 2 grams or less and is capable of measuring acceleration along three axes x y and z axes . It also preferably has a small surface area for example an area of 12 mm 12 mm square. The accelerometer may be more or less than 2 grams but should be light enough so that it does not interfere with spontaneous movements of an infant when placed on the infant s limbs.

Each accelerometer preferably takes measurements between 10 and 100 times per second. When more than one accelerometer is used with the present system the accelerometers are adapted to operate in a coordinated manner. Preferably all such accelerometers are synchronized to the same clock and take samples at the same time. In addition the accelerometers preferably communicate with the base station at different times so that they do not interfere with each other.

The accelerometers used in the present system are in electrical communication with a transmitter or transceiver so that acceleration data measured by the accelerometers can be transmitted wirelessly to a base station. The wireless accelerometers of the present system preferably weigh 5 grams or less and are 1 cmin surface area or less in order to facilitate their use with an infant. The transmission of data by transmitters of the wireless accelerometer component can take place in real time but in order to allow greater flexibility in the system the data is preferably transmitted with a predetermined latency or delay such as a 3 second delay. The use of wireless communication allows the movement of an infant s extremities to be measured without the possibility of the infant s extremities becoming tangled with wires that would otherwise be used for a wired connection thereby avoiding measurement errors and infant discomfort.

The wireless accelerometers of the present system can be attached to an extremity of an infant in any of a number of ways known to the art. Preferably a wireless accelerometer to be attached to an infant is secured to strap which can be reversibly secured to the infant s extremity such as with hook and loop fasteners. Other fasteners known to the art can also be used. In an alternative embodiment the accelerometer can be attached to the infant using a medically acceptable adhesive.

The wireless accelerometers can be attached to one or more limbs of an infant for example to the left arm LA right arm RA left leg LG and right leg RG . In one embodiment data from all four limbs of an infant is collected for diagnostic purposes. However data can be collected from just one limb for diagnostic purposes as well. The accelerometers capture movements from the one or more limbs which ultimately correlate to type number synchronicity and frequency among other information of limb movement during a predetermined time period i.e. a monitoring period.

The wireless accelerometers communicate acceleration data to a base station which can comprise a receiver or transceiver for receiving the acceleration data and circuitry for communicating such received data. The base station can in one embodiment also comprise circuitry for processing such data as described herein. Alternatively the base station can be a separate electronic component which transmits the data received from one or more wireless accelerometers to a computer or server with appropriate hardware and or software for processing the data from the wireless accelerometers. The computer and or server may be local or remote in this case preferably comprises software stored in memory for processing interpreting and modeling the data for example by comparing the processed data to standards to categorize an infant as being at high risk or low risk for development of a neurological disorder.

The base station receives data over the wireless link from one or more accelerometers preferably one at a time. Depending on the total number of accelerometers sampling rate and latency multiple base stations may need to be used. Each base station can define its own frequency hopping sequence to work with its set of accelerometers.

In one embodiment dynamic switching between different channels can be used to receive the accelerometer data. This can in some cases limit the sampling rate of the entire system. Therefore in a preferred embodiment two or more base stations are used to gather data from a plurality of accelerometers simultaneously. In one embodiment utilizing four wireless accelerometers a first base station s frequency can be set to 2.4 GHz and it can then gather data from two accelerometers that transmit data at 2.4 GHz and 2.4 GHz 8 MHz. A second base station s frequency can be shifted to 2.45 GHz so that it communicates with the other two accelerometers at 2.45 GHz and 2.45 GHz 8 MHz. Each base station then packages the data from the two accelerometers and forwards them to a host computer for processing.

A simplified diagram of an embodiment of the present system is shown in . As seen in that figure one or more wireless accelerometers are placed in wireless communication with a base station as indicated by the dotted lines . Data gathered by the accelerometers is then communicated either through a wired wireless or networked connection from the base station to a computer which processes the data. A user interface connected to the computer can be used to manipulate the raw or processed data as well as to send instructions to the base station and or wireless accelerometers.

In an alternative embodiment a gesture recognition system can be used to measure the acceleration of an infant subject s limbs as well as other movement parameters relevant to determining whether an infant is at risk for development of a neurological or motor disorder. The same types of measurements described herein in connection with an accelerometer based system can be taken by measuring and evaluating equivalent parameters from a three dimensional 3D model of a subject s extremities for example by measuring acceleration along three axes x y and z axes at a predetermined point of such a model of the subject s body. A gesture recognition system can also determine other movement parameters including the velocity of a subject s extremities and the position of the extremities such as at the joints relative to each other and relative to the centroid of the subject.

As shown in the present gesture recognition system generally comprises an optical input device for gathering optical data of a subject processing circuitry for processing such optical data and a communications interface for communicating such processed data to a user of the present system. The optical input device generally detects motion of a subject. A variety of such devices have been developed. One widely available commercial device is the KINECT system developed by Microsoft Corporation which makes use of a depth sensor consisting of an infrared projector combined with an optical sensor. The optical sensor can be for example an active pixel sensor APS such as a monochrome CMOS sensor commonly found in cell phone cameras . Active pixel sensors are image sensors consisting of an integrated circuit containing an array of pixel sensors with each pixel containing a photodetector and an active amplifier.

The KINECT system projects a plurality of infrared beams to determine position data for a corresponding plurality of points. These points are used to create a point cloud representation of the space in front of the camera and from this a depth image of objects found within the point cloud is determined. Algorithms for identifying the trunk and limbs of a person within the point cloud can then be used to produce a representational image of an individual within the depth image. Infrared systems such as the KINECT system are preferred because they work in low light conditions and therefore are useful in a wider variety of settings.

Other motion capture systems can alternatively be used to obtain motion data for use in the present system. Systems used to track or capture motion which have been used in the film industry for example can be used. Some such systems involve markers placed on the extremities of a subject in particular near each joint of a subject in order to identify motion by the positions or angles between the markers. The markers can be acoustic inertial LED magnetic or reflective markers or combinations of any of these. Such markers are tracked optimally at least two times the frequency rate of the desired motion. However markerless systems such as the infrared camera based systems described above are preferred.

The present gesture recognition system further comprises processing circuitry for creating a depth image of the subject using the optical data gathered by the optical input device and creating a representational image of at least some of the subject s extremities. The processing circuitry is further adapted to determine movement parameters of a subject s extremities based on such a representational image including acceleration and time data. Processing circuitry then evaluates the determined movement parameters to determine whether the subject s gestures comprise Cramped Synchronized General Movements thereby determining whether the subject is at risk of experiencing a medical disorder. The processing circuitry can be local or remote with respect to the optical input device and can be connected through either a wired connection a wireless connection and or over a network. The instructions needed by processing circuitry to process interpret and model optical data obtained from the optical input device can be stored in memory which can be in forms known to the art such as hardware software firmware and or middleware.

The processing circuitry is arranged to obtain process and or send data control data access and storage issue commands and control other desired operations. The processing circuitry can comprise circuitry configured to implement desired programming provided by appropriate media in at least one embodiment. For example the processing circuitry can be implemented as one or more of a processor a controller a plurality of processors and or other structure s configured to execute executable instructions including for example software and or firmware instructions and or hardware circuitry. Embodiments of the processing circuitry can include a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic component discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing components such as a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a number of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. These examples of the processing circuitry are for illustration and other suitable configurations within the scope of the present disclosure are also contemplated.

Instructions for operating the processing circuitry and performing the computations needed to determine a subject s risk for experiencing a medical disorder can be stored in a storage medium memory . The storage medium can represent one or more devices for storing programming and or data such as executable code or instructions e.g. software firmware electronic data databases or other digital information. The storage medium can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose processor. By way of example and not limitation the storage medium can include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other non transitory computer readable mediums for storing information. The storage medium can be coupled to the processing circuitry such that the processing circuitry can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processing circuitry . As used herein a storage medium or computer readable medium refers to a non transitory medium i.e. not a signal or wave comprising data.

The present system can operate through either wireless and or wired communications between the optical device processing circuitry and the communications interface of the present system. In some embodiments a user can control the optical device and processing circuitry wirelessly through the communications interface which can be for example a laptop or tablet computer. Wireless components of the present system can be coupled with an antenna and can include wireless transceiver circuitry for wireless communications and or components of the present system can communicate via connections such as a serial or parallel connection USB port Firewire interface flash memory interface floppy disk drive or any other suitable arrangement for communicating with respect to public e.g. Internet and or private networks or other wired arrangements. Remote components are preferably connected over a network.

The display of the communications interface is configured to visually present images to a user. For example the display can include a monitor television projector or other device for visually presenting graphics to a user.

A gesture recognition system has several advantages over the use of physical accelerometers in the present system. One advantage is that some or all of an infant s limbs can be tracked simultaneously by a single virtual system and in fact the limbs of several infants can be monitored using a single virtual system. By contrast a different accelerometer must be attached to each limb of an infant when physical accelerometers are used. Physical accelerometers are also more time consuming and difficult to attach to infants who are not in control of the movement of their limbs.

Moreover the use of a gesture recognition system avoids contact between infant subjects and the accelerometers thereby reducing the risk of infection. This is a significant risk for pre term infants who are at heightened risk for cerebral palsy and therefore represent a significant portion of the subjects to be tested using the present system. The use of a gesture recognition system also allows the same equipment to be reused for evaluating infant subjects since there isn t contact between the optical input device or any other portion of the system and a subject being monitored whereas accelerometers cannot be reused due to infection risk . Accelerometers also can t be used on infants with skin conditions which would be exacerbated by contact with the accelerometers.

In addition accelerometers are limited in duration due to battery life. Small batteries must be used with the accelerometers because infant subjects are small and because undue weight of an accelerometer may affect a subject s movements. Gesture recognition systems on the other hand avoid the weight of an accelerometer. Potential sources of error introduced by accelerometers such as calibration drift are also absent when a gesture recognition system is used.

Block represents the raw data captured from either a gesture recognition system or from one or more accelerometers. In one embodiment when the acceleration of an extremity is being measured the raw data can consist of data points for three 3 different axes i.e. the X Y and Z axes for a particular accelerometer or predetermined point on a representational image of a subject. Each axis preferably comprises of nineteen 19 points per second i.e. a resolution of 19 Hertz Hz .

Block represents the cleaning and smoothing of the raw data. Cleaning and smoothing of the data comprises calculating the mean for each axis i.e. gravity due to change in position. The first step in the data pre processing is to smooth the raw data by translation by standardizing the data points by centering on the mean for example as shown in the equation below mean 1 90 90 90 90 90 90 Equation 1A where j represents each axis x y z i represents an index for each data and N represents the number of data points. This step is repeated for each of the individual axes and for every data point i in N. The length of R is not constant in Equation 1A as data is collected non uniformly. That is the size of sliding window for R changes and the mean is adjusted accordingly. The adjustment removes artifacts due to the constant forces of gravity and when applicable accelerometer or other device calibration drift without reducing the number of data points. The smoothed values for individual x y and z axes are then converted into a magnitude by the following equation square root over 1 Equation 1B where Tequals the corrected magnitude of acceleration and t tand trepresenting the x y and z components of acceleration respectively. Hence the raw data for each limb and for each axis is preferably converted into a translated smoother absolute value as defined by equations above.

Block represents pre processing of the cleaned smoothed values to achieve feature extraction and annotation. The key purpose of feature extraction is to calculate features which are required for modeling the movement captured by the accelerometer or gesture recognition system and represented by the raw data. The following features may be calculated for example from the smoothed magnitude data from each limb of a subject s movement on a sample by sample basis max min Equation 2A Maximum Minimum Acceleration Values of Individual Limbs max T min Equation 2B Overall Maximum Minimum for all Limbs Equation 2C Power Product of Individual Limbs Equation 2D Overall Power Product of Individual Limbs Correl Equation 2E Correlation Between Left and Right Limb

A second set of features can be created by temporally aggregating information from the samples. For each data point a new set of features is added to that point based on a temporal aggregation of neighboring data values. For each of the sample based features the maximum minimum mean standard deviation and z value of all neighboring samples in a time window of 0.5 seconds 1 second and 2 seconds for example can be calculated.

After smoothing calculating and aggregating features the features can be extracted from the data. The feature vector combination for this modeling preferably consists of a total of one hundred and sixty six 166 features classified as either sample features temporal features or correlation features. Ten exemplary sample features include the smoothed magnitude of each of the limbs i.e. left arm LA right arm RA left leg LL and right leg RL product power of limbs overall power of the limbs maximum values for limbs and overall maximum of the limbs. One hundred and fifty 150 temporal features can be derived from the ten sample based features with five functions applied over three temporal windows. The five functions are maximum minimum mean standard deviation and z value. There are also six correlation features for the correlation of the arms RA with LA and legs LL with RL over three temporal windows.

In embodiments in which gesture recognition is used to obtain data concerning the movement of a subject s extremities movement of a subject s extremities is not being directly measured but instead is being determined based on a representational image of the subject. Optical data must therefore first be processed in order to create such a representational image of the subject.

A depth image of a subject can be created from optical data from the optical input device using commercially available gesture recognition software. For example the Kinect software development kit SDK provided by Microsoft Corporation can be used to create such an image. The Microsoft SDK produces a skeleton body pose from the depth image generated by the optical input device of the KINECT system. The process used by this software is described in International Patent App. No. WO 2007043036 and involves random dot matching of points dots detected by the optical input device . In this process a coherent light source preferably infrared projects structured light i.e. a random speckle pattern onto the subject. An imaging unit detects the light response of the illuminated region and generates image data. Shifts of the pattern in the image of the subject relative to a reference image of the pattern are used in real time reconstruction of a 3D map of the subject.

Any of a number of algorithms can be used to create such a depth image from optical data provided by the optical input device and thereby track the movement of a subject s limbs. For example appropriate methodologies have been developed by C. Bregler and J. Malik Tracking people with twists and exponential maps In Proc. CVPR 1998 and by Shotton et al. Real time human pose recognition in parts from single depth images 2011 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition CVPR pp. 1297 1304 2011 . Other methods of optical 3D mapping project different sorts of patterns onto the object to be mapped. For example PCT International Publication WO 93 03579 describes a three dimensional vision system in which one or two projectors establish structured light comprising two sets of parallel stripes having different periodicities and angles. As another example U.S. Pat. No. 6 751 344 describes a method for optically scanning a subject in which the subject is illuminated with a matrix of discrete two dimensional image objects such as a grid of dots. Other methods are also known for example that described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 142 which also involves the projection of speckled light in order to reconstruct a 3D map of the object.

Once a subject s movements have been modeled they can be evaluated as described above or using other methods known to the art. For example Elgendi et al. M. Elgendi F. Picon and N. Magenant Thalmann Real Time Speed Detection of Hand Gesture using Kinect Workshop on Autonomous Social Robots and Virtual Humans the 25th Annual Conference on Computer Animation and Social Agents pp. 9 11 May 2012 describe the determination of velocity and acceleration of a subject s limbs using the Kinect system see also Elgendi et al. Towards arm tremor diagnosis Singapore National Research Jul. 18 2013 .

A flow chart illustrating a preferred embodiment of a process for monitoring the motion of a subject s limbs using optical data is shown in . In this process light is first projected onto a subject and then analyzed to create a point cloud representation step by the optical input device . Using the optical data detected by the optical input device a stick figure representation is created by the processing circuitry step using an algorithm as described above. Once such a three dimensional representation of a subject is created other data concerning features of the representation such as the acceleration and timing of the motion of a subject s extremity can be extracted in a motion pre processing step step in the same manner as described above for embodiments of the present invention that make use of accelerometers i.e. as represented by block in . A determination of whether a subject s movements correspond to Cramped Synchronized General Movements can then be made in a graphical modeling step i.e. as represented by block .

Processed data can be evaluated by comparison to a reference standard in order to determine whether a subject whose extremity movements have been evaluated is at risk of a neurological or other condition. Preferably the standard is based at least in part on the maximum acceleration magnitude of one or more of a subject s limbs. When the maximum acceleration magnitude is measured across a 2 second window the resulting data when compared with a reference standard is indicative of whether a subject is at heightened risk of developing cerebral palsy.

Another use of the processed data is to generate models or standards for use in the clinical evaluation of neurological conditions for example. This is shown in in block which represents modeling e.g. by Graphical Models Toolkit GMTK of the sample temporal and or correlation features to create a reference standard. The features are used to train a statistical model in conjunction with a trained observers coding of videos which are then used as the reference standard. In one embodiment the statistical model is generated using statistical analysis software e.g. RANDOM FOREST support vector machines SVMs and or a naive Bayes classifier. An SVM training algorithm can for example build a model that predicts whether a new example falls into one category or the other for example into a category that matches patterns observed in infants found to have a medical condition such as cerebral palsy.

The model preferably correlates to Prechtl s qualitative assessment of general movements. Under the Prechtl model general movements GMs in normal infants are described as elegant smooth variable in sequence intensity and speed with a clear beginning and end while cramped synchronized general movements CSGMs in abnormal infants are described as rigid limbs moving in near synchrony in which limb and trunk muscles contract and relax almost simultaneously. CSGMs have high predictive value for the development of cerebral palsy. Once trained the models are fixed and used to recognize movements of monitored infants in a clinical setting.

According to embodiments of the invention the processed data from the monitored infant can be used to categorize the infant into a risk group i.e. a high risk or a low risk group. For example a monitored infant may be characterized as having the presence or absence of abnormal movements in the form of type number synchronicity etc. Abnormal movements may indicate that the infant has an increased risk for cerebral palsy seizures autism mental retardation intraventricular hemorrhage cognitive delay or other neurological or motor conditions. The information may be used by the clinician to assign or assess a risk status of the infant.

The present system and methods can be used to predict neurological disorders in infants using a non invasive measure based on spontaneous movements in infants. At least one advantage of the present system is that it substantially or completely overcomes the limitations associated with human observers i.e. subjectivity and observer fatigue among other limitations. The present system can also permit accurate assessment of energy expenditure due to physical activity in babies. Additionally many adult conditions such as obesity and osteoporosis are now known to have origins very early in life and of which correlate to infant movement and the present system can be used as a predictive tool to assess risk of developing these conditions later in life.

Ten 10 preterm infants at 30 43 weeks corrected gestational age were selected for observation. Five accelerometers were used for data collection. Devices were embedded in cloth bands that were placed around the wrists ankles and forehead of the infants with a canonical anatomical orientation. Each accelerometer measured three 3 orthogonal axes of acceleration on the head and each of the four 4 limbs. All infants were monitored and videotaped for one hour in an isolette wearing only a diaper and with all swaddling removed. The ambient temperature of the isolette was adjusted and maintained to standard levels. A video camera having a mid sagittal view of the infant was positioned above the isolette at a downward angle of 45 degrees to record motion for video scoring.

The accelerometers transmitted data that was sampled non uniformly at approximately 19 Hz in real time to a computer. The raw data consisted of real valued samples of the three 3 axes measuring the degree of acceleration due to gravity and changes in limb motion. Although data was collected from four limbs and the forehead subsequent analysis demonstrated that head movement did not substantially vary and was excluded from further analysis.

For comparison to the accelerometer data the collected video data was manually annotated based on the Prechtl model for identifying CSGMs. A healthcare provider trained in the assessment identified windows of time in the video in which the infants demonstrated CSGMs. The healthcare provider annotated start and stop time for each CSGM observed. This scoring technique provided a label for every time sample where the label was either Movement Observed or Movement Not Observed . The annotated data was then synchronized with the corresponding timestamps in the video and accelerometer data see .

The raw data was collected at 19 Hz and was indexed by a time stamp. Each time stamp had associated with twelve 12 real numbers corresponding to three 3 axes of acceleration data collected for each of four 4 limbs. This raw data required significant cleaning and processing to support effective modeling. The result of the data processing was to create one hundred and sixty six 166 values associated with each time stamp. These were features that could be correlated with video observations at the same time stamp and were the bases of the CSGM modeling.

There were three primary artifacts in raw data that were accounted for in preprocessing. The first was based on that the data was not collected at uniform intervals. Although each reading was accurately time stamped the sampling frequency was irregularly spaced with a 19 Hz average. This made calculating features based on frequency analysis outside the scope of this study. The second was that every triple of accelerometer readings contained a one 1 gram component due to gravity which was indistinguishable from a one 1 gram change in movement in an infant. Based on the orientation of the infant s limbs this component was distributed across the three 3 axes in different proportions at different times. The third was that there were periods of time in the collected data in which various NICU personnel medical interventions invalidated a few seconds of the data. The impact of these artifacts was reduced as follows.

By reviewing the video periods of time were identified in which the accelerometer data was not generated by spontaneous movements in the infant. Examples of non spontaneous movement periods included e.g. pacifier adjustments by the NICU nurses bumping of the isolette during temperature adjustments and adjustments to the monitoring equipment. Removing this data resulted in gaps in the data stream that were conceptually similar to the already irregularly collected data samples although they were an order of magnitude larger. Each infant subsequently had a different absolute number of data points N that nonetheless spanned an hour.

To eliminate systematic biases in the readings that were not related to motion such as gravity and accelerometer calibration drift the resulting data was smoothed by translation relative to the mean of a ten 10 second window centered on each data point 1 Equation 1 Translation mean 5 sec 5 sec 

For every sample time i and every axis j the mean of a ten 10 second window centered at time i was subtracted from the observed data point t. The number of data points over which the mean was calculated was not constant because the data was collected at non uniform intervals and because some data was removed due to intervention. However the mean was calculated over the same duration of time. This step served to eliminate the effect of gravity and any other systematic constant offset in our readings e.g. calibration drift without reducing the number of data points.

Modeling pertained to changes in the motion of the limbs of the test subject infants. As a result the three 3 axes from each accelerometer were merged into a single value that captured the overall magnitude of the smoothed data. For each time stamp this resulted in four 4 new data values one that aggregated the motion from each limb. These were the first four 4 features and represented the corrected acceleration magnitude .

This method of data preprocessing was invoked to ensure that the number of data points was not reduced so that they could be matched to the video annotations with high temporal fidelity.

From the smoothed stream of accelerometer data statistical features were extracted for analysis. The features chosen were based on CSGMs specifically and GMs broadly. The following instantaneous sample based features for each data point were calculated.

Several features were calculated based on functions that aggregated over windows of time the mean the maximum the minimum the standard deviation and the z value. The time periods included one 1 second two 2 seconds or four 4 seconds centered on the current data point. The data that we aggregated over included each of the first ten 10 features. This resulted in an additional one hundred and fifty 150 features.

The final six 6 features that were calculated were the Pearson correlation between the left and right arm and the right and left leg. Although the correlation was for a single pair of data points the same three time periods 1 second 2 seconds or 4 seconds as above as above to calculate the aggregate statistics required for each Pearson correlation calculation. Correl Correl 

The target data that was modeled were taken from the start and stop times that the trained healthcare provider marked when observing CSGMs. The feature vector for each data point consisted of a total of one hundred and sixty six 166 features derived from both instantaneous data and temporal features as described above. The healthcare provider s annotations provided a binary target class for each feature vector that was the value that we were trying to model and predict.

To predict a class RANDOM FORESTS was utilized. As known by one of ordinary skill in the art RANDOM FORESTS builds several trees based on a random subset of available features. Each tree is trained on a different bootstrap sample of the training data. During testing each decision tree in the forest is presented with a single feature vector with an unknown class and votes on a classification. The final classification is based on the votes from all the trees in the forest. Feature choices were additionally validated using support vector machines SVMs in a different software environment.

The average overall corrected acceleration magnitude for all infants was 0.095 m s with an average corrected arm acceleration of 0.11 m sand average corrected leg acceleration of 0.08 m s. The maximum arm acceleration noted in any infant was 3.80 m sand the maximum leg acceleration was 3.87 m s. shows the average corrected acceleration for each infant over the entire one 1 hour observation period average across all times of the average of four limbs at each time sample . A wide range of average accelerations reflected wide variability in limb motion. shows the Pearson correlation calculated between the arms and between the legs of each infant. The right arm and left arm had an average correlation coefficient of 0.47 with one 1 being perfectly correlated and zero 0 being no correlation. The right leg and left leg had an average correlation coefficient of 0.48. show a scatter plot of the arm and leg acceleration observed and the average corrected acceleration observed. A strong correlation is seen between arm and leg acceleration.

The healthcare provider identified 102 total CSGMs in six of the ten infants in the study. Each infant generated approximately 70 000 data points for a total of approximately 700 000 samples in our data. Using 10 fold cross validation we applied the RANDOM FOREST algorithm to the data. The algorithm was trained on 90 of the data points and then tested on 10 of the data points. The algorithm achieved an average sensitivity of 99.2 and an average specificity of 99.6 to recognize CSGMs identified by the healthcare provider at any given time point. RANDOM FOREST results were compared analysis by a separate support vector machine SVM machine learning algorithm providing independent validity of software implementation correctness. is a table of patient gestational age GA . is a table of Temporal Feature Calculation Components. is a table of Modeling Results.

In order to validate our experimental setup and the accelerometers ability to perform movement assessments we first conducted an analysis in which a nurse scored the videos for periods of infant activity. Using the 4 point Giganti scale 20 we had a nurse annotate the video data at 110 time points throughout the hour of data. 50 annotations were made at the top of every minute for 50 minutes and 60 annotations were made every ten seconds for the remaining 10 minutes. Visual and statistical analysis demonstrated high correlation between the nurse s labels and the raw data. A portion of the data is shown in . 10 minutes of data from the 4 limbs are shown in the top 4 graphs black with the nurse s scoring in red in the bottom graph.

The average overall corrected acceleration magnitude for all infants was 0.095 m s with an average corrected arm acceleration of 0.11 m sand average corrected leg acceleration of 0.08 m s. The maximum arm acceleration noted in any infant was 3.80 m sand the maximum leg acceleration was 3.87 m s. shows the average corrected acceleration for each baby over the entire 1 hour observation period average across all times of the average of four limbs at each time sample . A wide range of average accelerations reflected wide variability in baby motion. shows the Pearson correlation calculated between the arms and between the legs of each baby. The right arm and left arm had an average correlation coefficient of 0.47 with 1 being perfectly correlated and 0 being no correlation. The right leg and left leg had an average correlation coefficient of 0.48. show a scatter plot of the arm and leg acceleration observed and the average corrected acceleration observed. A strong correlation is seen between arm and leg acceleration.

The physical therapist identified 102 total CSGMs in six of the ten infants in the study. Each baby generated approximately 70 000 data points for a total of approximately 700 000 samples in our data. Using 10 fold cross validation we applied the 3 algorithms to the data. Each technique produced different results that traded off sensitivity and specificity. Accuracies ranged from 70 90 . achieved an average sensitivity of 99.2 and an average specificity of 99.6 . Detailed measurements are shown in Table 1 below.

We conducted an analysis of the most informative features that were identified by the decision tree modeling. For each decision tree that was created in each of the ten cross validation folds we ranked the features according to their independent information gain to identify which single feature was the most correlated with CSGMs. For each feature we averaged the rank across the ten trees. shows the result of the informative features.

The most informative feature was the minimum across a 2 second window of the maximum acceleration magnitude of all limbs for a given sample. This demonstrates that recognizing CSGMs requires observing a sustained motion. CSGMs are not particularly high energy motions however and this suggests that normal motions do not sustain a continuously observed acceleration on all limbs for an entire 2 second window. The next nine most informative features were based on recognizing peak accelerations. This suggests that the sensor signature of CSGMs has sudden stops and starts although the movement itself is not characterized by a lot of high frequency motion.

Finally 2 of the top 4 features were correlated with the right side of the body. This is a curious result but retrospective analysis of the cohorts medical records indicates that the majority of the patients had left side hemorrhaging that was apparently manifesting in right side motion.

The experiment resulted in a successful implementation of infant accelerometer monitoring for use in identifying CSGM s and therefore predicting risk of developing neurological based disorders manifested by abnormal motor movement. A successful model was created based on CSGMs using acceleration only data with high accuracy sensitivity and specificity. The results suggest a high correlation between the manual annotations of the healthcare provider based on the video and the accelerometer data. Since data was transmitted wirelessly in real time it is more suitable to clinical applications and potential real time feedback. The presence of CSGM s indicates high risk for CP development and therefore the accelerometer system s identification of CSGM s in an infant classifies that infant into a high risk category.

An accelerometer produced for use with the present system consisted of 1 a microcontroller and radio board and 2 a sensor and power board. The microcontroller and radio board included a 2.4 GHz RF transceiver with an embedded 8051 compatible microcontroller a chip antenna a 32K EEPROM and a 20 pin connector. The 32 KB serial EEPROM is used to store the application program. The transceiver used a GFSK modulation scheme in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. It had 125 different frequency channels that are 1 MHz apart and supported frequency hopping among them. The maximum RF output power was 0 dBm at the maximum data rate of 1 Mbps. The output power data rate and other RF parameters were set from software. A chip antenna was used to radiate RF signals with a high performance 2.4 GHz antenna measuring only 6.5 mm 2.2 mm 1.0 mm and its maximum gain was 0.8 dBi.

The power system of the accelerometer consisted of a lithium coin battery CR1632 a step up switching regulator a load switch and a power path switch. The battery was connected on the bottom side of the sensor and power board. The accelerometer used the CR1632 battery whose nominal output voltage and capacity are 3V and 125 mAh respectively. In order to supply stable power to the wireless accelerometer a step up switching regulator was used. This switching regulator generates a constant 3V regardless of the battery s actual output voltage.

One or more of the components steps features and or functions illustrated in the figures can be rearranged and or combined into a single component step feature or function or embodied in several components steps or functions. Additional elements components steps and or functions can also be added without departing from the invention. The apparatus devices and or components illustrated in the present figures can be configured to perform one or more of the methods features or steps described in the figures.

The algorithms described herein can also be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks can be stored in a machine readable medium memory such as a non transitory storage medium or other storage s . A processor can perform the necessary tasks. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments other embodiments are possible. The steps disclosed for the present methods for example are not intended to be limiting nor are they intended to indicate that each step is necessarily essential to the method but instead are exemplary steps only. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of preferred embodiments contained in this disclosure.

Recitation of value ranges herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method for referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless otherwise indicated herein each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

