---

title: Responding to an interactive multicast message within a wireless communication system
abstract: Wireless communication systems and methods of scheduling access terminal responses to an interactive multicast message are provided. A radio access network (RAN) generates an access control message (ACM), the ACM indicating feedback instructions for a plurality of access terminals (ATs) belonging to a given multicast group. The feedback instructions of the ACM designate a temporary manner in which the plurality of access terminals are to respond to an interactive multicast message. The target ATs receive the interactive multicast message as well as the ACM. The target ATs, or multicast group members, respond to the interactive multicast message based on the feedback instructions for the plurality of access terminals indicated by the ACM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185593&OS=09185593&RS=09185593
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09185593
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131024
---
The present application for patent is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 212 390 entitled RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 17 2008 which in turn claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 796 entitled METHODS OF RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 24 2007 and to Provisional Application No. 60 974 831 entitled METHODS OF MANAGING ACKNOWLEDGMENT TRANSMISSIONS FROM MULTICAST GROUP MEMBERS OF A MULTICAST GROUP WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Sep. 24 2007 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to methods of responding to an interactive multicast message within the wireless communication system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to wireless communication systems and methods of scheduling access terminal responses to an interactive multicast message are provided. A radio access network RAN generates an access control message ACM the ACM indicating feedback instructions for a plurality of access terminals ATs belonging to a given multicast group. The feedback instructions of the ACM designate a temporary manner in which the plurality of access terminals are to respond to an interactive multicast message. The target ATs receive the interactive multicast message as well as the ACM. The target ATs or multicast group members respond to the interactive multicast message based on the feedback instructions for the plurality of access terminals indicated by the ACM.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the Background section multicast messaging may be performed in a number of ways. In order to better understand embodiments of the present invention a conventional multicast messaging process will be described with respect to respectively. Then a multicast messaging process according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described in greater detail.

After receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN waits for a next available control channel capsule in . The control channel referred to herein is a downlink control channel which is assigned a different frequency coding and or bandwidth than the broadcast channel BCH . Generally less bandwidth is allocated to the control channel which is conventionally intended to include control messaging only while more bandwidth is allocated to the broadcast channel BCH which is conventionally intended to include data.

Referring to each control channel cycle includes a total of 256 slots. Each control channel cycle includes a synchronous control channel capsule SC an asynchronous control channel capsule AC and a number of sub synchronous control channels SSCs . One SC is regularly or periodically transmitted at a given timeslot for each control channel cycle having a period of 256 slots whereas the AC is transmitted at random or at non synchronous timeslots within the control channel cycle. The SC is first transmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 256 Offset and then retransmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 4 Offset where T denotes a system time and an Offset denotes a time value delayed from a fixed time which are included in the control channel header. Each SC may include a plurality of control channel MAC layer packets whereas each AC includes only one control channel MAC layer packet. As each MPT BS periodically transmits one or more control channel MAC layer packets interference e.g. inter cell interference may occur if each MPT BS transmits at the same time. Accordingly a different offset is applied to the SC for each MPT BS to avoid collisions. The MPT BS may transmit as many as three SSC capsules within one control channel period or 256 slot cycle. Each SSC typically transmits only one control channel MAC layer packet. Assuming an offset value of 2 the SSCs are transmitted at time slots and . Control channel capsules e.g. SCs ACs SSCs etc. are generally well known in the art within BCMCS systems and as such a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

Returning back to in the RAN may wait for either a synchronous control channel capsule SC e.g. timeslot in a next control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 or alternatively a sub synchronous control channel capsule SSC e.g. one of timeslots of the control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 that is periodically reserved for the BOM. For example one particular control channel capsule within each control channel cycle may be reserved for a particular BOM. Since other applications may be attempting to access the control channel and other messages may be scheduled a delay of multiple cycles may be incurred.

In after waiting for the next available SC or SSC the RAN transmits a broadcast overhead message BOM over the air interface to one or more multicast group members e.g. ATs A B C . The BOM is a forward link control message defined by EV DO standards. The BOM is used to notify each multicast group member of the BCMCS flows which are currently being carried in a sector. The BOM also provides Interlaced Multiplexed Pair IM Pair information which is information regarding the forward link physical layer timeslots that should be decoded to receive the desired packet flows and information on the number of physical layer slots per broadcast physical layer packet and physical layer rate used to transmit the flow. In the RAN waits a predetermined number of slots e.g. 8 to 16 slots for the BOM to be decoded at the target ATs. After the delay the RAN waits for the BCH slot designated by the decoded BOM . This creates another delay which may be further exacerbated based on the traffic on the broadcast channel. In the RAN transmits the announce message to each multicast group member or target AT which it is serving over the broadcast channel BCH on the designated BCH slot.

As described above with respect to conventional BCMCS multicast messaging typically requires each target AT or multicast group member to decode a broadcast overhead message BOM before a multicast message is transmitted over a broadcast channel BCH to the respective members of the multicast group. This creates delays both for the scheduling of the BOM delays for the decoding and potential subsequent delays for the scheduling the announce message.

In the embodiment of in the application server requests a multicast message be sent to a multicast group including ATs A B and C. The multicast message from is routed to the BSN . In the BSN forwards the multicast message along with the associated multicast group including the target destinations or ATs for the multicast message over the BCA10 connection to the RAN . For example the BSN may forward the multicast message to the BSC PCF which may analyze the multicast group members associated with the multicast message and forwards the multicast message to each MPT BS serving one or more multicast group members.

After receiving the forwarded multicast messages the RAN analyzes the received multicast message in . Based on the analysis in the RAN determines whether to apply special handling instructions or treatment to the multicast message in . For example the analyzing in may evaluate the internet protocol IP header of the multicast message. If a flag is determined to be present within the IP header for example the Difsery Code Point DSCP value of the IP header the flag may be interpreted as a trigger which requests special handling for the multicast message. Alternatively the flag may be provided within the well known BCA10 identifier ID or BCMCS flow ID e.g. separate from the IP header . For example before the multicast session the application server may select one or more BCMCS flow IDs to be reserved or associated with special handling e.g. multicast sessions reserved for emergency communications etc. . The application server may then share the selected or reserved BCMCS flow IDs with the RAN . Accordingly thereafter during a multicast session the RAN may check in whether the received multicast message corresponds to one of the reserved BCMCS flow IDs and if so determines to apply special handling for the received multicast message in .

In another alternative example the flag may be provided via both the IP header and BCA10 ID. Generally a flag within the IP header e.g. a multicast IP address and or port number may be recognized decoded by the BSC portion of the BSC PCF of the RAN and a flag within the DSCP may be recognized decoded by the PCF portion of the BSC PCF of the RAN . BCA10 identifiers and DSCP values are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

For example the flag may be inserted into the multicast message e.g. via the IP header the BCMCS flow ID or BCA10 ID etc. at any higher level position within the network architecture relative to the RAN . The flag may be inserted into the IP header by the application server the BSN etc. In another example the flag may be used to designate higher priority multicast messages. For example multicast messages associated with emergency alerts may be flagged whereas multicast messages associated with product advertisements may not necessarily be flagged .

In if the RAN determines not to apply special handling to the multicast message the process advances to block of and conventional BCMCS multicast message protocols can be used to transmit the multicast message to the multicast message group. Otherwise if the RAN determines that special handling has been requested for the multicast message in the process advances to .

In the RAN generates a data over signaling DOS message which includes the multicast message. DOS messages are well known in the art within EV DO protocols. DOS messages are defined by EV DO standard as a unicast message and are not associated with multicast messaging in the EV DO standard. However embodiments of the invention generate a DOS message including the multicast message. The DOS message may be reconfigured to support multicast messaging protocols as will now be described.

The CDMA2000 1x EV DO defines an access terminal identifier ATI for identifying an access terminal a broadcast ATI BATI a multicast ATI MATI a unicast ATI UATI and a random ATI RATI . The BATI is defined as 00 the MATI is defined as 01 the UATI is defined as 10 and the RATI is defined as 11 . The three ATI types excluding the BATI have a 32 bit field for representing an ATI. The UATI is used in a 1 1 call processing procedure.

As discussed above DOS messages are defined by EV DO standards as being associated with unicast messaging and not multicast messaging. However the DOS message generated in is addressed to the multicast access terminal identifier MATI where the MATI is set to the BCMCSFIowID associated with the multicast message. The BCMCSFIowID allows the ATs to identify the appropriate stream on the broadcast channel for the group call. Generally the BCMCSFIowID is known at each respective AT which is monitoring a particular BCMCS flow e.g. the BCMCSFIowID may be designated by the BOM etc. . Accordingly as will be described in greater detail below by tagging or addressing the DOS message of to the MATI the target ATs receiving the DOS message may interpret the DOS message as a multicast message associated with a particular BCMCS flow and directly receive the needed information to start the group call. Alternatively however it will be appreciated that other embodiments need not be limited to setting the MATI to the BCMCSFIowID to distinguish the DOS as a multicast message. For example the MATI may be set to any value which multicast group members or ATs may interpret as identifying the MATI to be a multicast message for a particular multicast group.

In the RAN waits for a next available control channel capsule on the control channel. In the RAN transmits the DOS message to the multicast group members over the control channel within the next available control channel capsule. As discussed above each synchronous channel SC e.g. or alternatively each sub synchronous channel of the control channel capsule may include a plurality of MAC layer packets. Accordingly in an example the DOS message may be included in the first MAC layer packet of the given control channel capsule.

In each target AT receives the DOS message transmitted in over the control channel. Because the DOS message is addressed to the MATI each target AT determines the DOS message to include the associated multicast message e.g. as opposed to a unicast message . It will be appreciated that a DOS message addressed to a MATI would likely be interpreted as an error in a conventional handset or AT. In this embodiment however each target AT may be configured to recognize a control message addressed to the MATI e.g. or otherwise identified as a multicast message as a multicast message such that the AT configured in accordance with this embodiment extracts the multicast message from the received DOS message in . The respective target ATs may acknowledge receipt of the multicast message included within the DOS message subsequent to a successful receipt or extracting of the multicast message. In another aspect of the invention the RAN may first confirm that one or more given target ATs is capable of interpreting for example DOS messages using the MATI as multicast messages in order to ensure that the DOS multicast messages are interpreted correctly by receiving ATs. In an example each AT receiving the DOS message may decode extract the multicast message in irrespective of whether the AT is actually one of the intended recipients of the multicast message. In another example only target ATs or ATs interested in the multicast session may decode extract the multicast message from the DOS message in .

As will be appreciated from the forgoing description of the exemplary multicast messaging process of the delays and potential loss of data associated with sending a BOM to the multicast group members waiting for BOM decoding and sending an announce message may be avoided for DOS multicast messages by allocating higher priority status via an IP header flag and transmitting the higher priority multicast messages via the control channel.

Further it will be appreciated that the processes of which have been described as being performed at the RAN and or MPT BS may be performed at one or more RANs and or MPT BSs at the same time in other embodiments of the invention and the description of has been directed to a single RAN and MPT BS implementation for the sake of convenience of description only. In another example if multicast group members are dispersed among different MPT BS s procedures through may be performed among the different MPT BS s independently.

Further while the embodiment of is directed to a DOS message in 1xEVDO being set to a MATI address or multicast bit signature as opposed to a UATI address or unicast bit signature it will be appreciated that any control channel message adapted to conform to a MATI type message may alternatively be used to transfer a multicast message on the control channel.

The embodiment of has generally been directed to multicast messaging in general and not specifically to interactive multicast messaging. An interactive multicast message is a multicast message that requests a response or feedback from each or a portion of target ATs or multicast group members within the multicast group. For example an interactive multicast message may correspond to a push to talk PTT message where a mobile subscriber selecting PTT desires to establish communication with one or more multicast group members within a given multicast group.

In order to better understand the present invention a conventional manner in which ATs respond to interactive multicast messages is described below followed by interactive multicast message response protocols according to embodiments of the present invention.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that as the number of target ATs increases the number of target ATs transmitting to the RAN on the reverse link access channel at the same time will increase thereby increasing interference and reducing each respective ATs chances of successfully reaching the RAN .

As discussed above concurrent responses on the reverse link access channel by multiple ATs may degrade system performance. which will now be described are directed to a set of interactive multicast message response protocols for increasing system performance through a more efficient allocation of the access channel for interactive multicast message responses.

After receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN analyzes the received multicast message in . Based on the analysis in the RAN determines whether the received multicast message is interactive in e.g. whether the multicast message requests a response from one or more of its multicast group members . If the RAN determines that the received multicast message is not interactive in the process advances to of where non interactive multicast message protocols can be used to transfer the multicast message to the multicast group members. Otherwise if the RAN determines that the received multicast message is interactive in the process advances to .

In the RAN generates one or more access control messages ACMs for scheduling AT responses to the interactive multicast message. An example of ACM generation as in will now be described in more detail with reference to .

In of the RAN selects e.g. a random selection etc. one of the plurality of sectors from among the determined sectors of . In the RAN initializes a multicast member set for the selected sector. The initialized multicast member set includes for the selected sector each target AT or multicast group member belonging to the multicast group associated with the interactive multicast message.

In the RAN may remove all ATs within the multicast member set having an active traffic channel. For example ATs having a current active traffic channel e.g. which is typically known at the RAN as the RAN monitors supports the traffic channel will respond over the traffic channel and as such may be excluded from the ACM. Next in the RAN selects a given number of target ATs expected to be most likely to respond to the interactive multicast message.

The selecting process may be performed in any number of ways. For example the RAN may select a set of ATs that have most recently provided location update reports to the RAN e.g. see discussion of above and below . In another example the RAN may perform the selecting process based on a channel quality metric. In this example the RAN selects one or more ATs based on a current or past measure of the ATs channel quality on a given channel e.g. an uplink channel as measured at the RAN a downlink channel as reported from the AT etc. . However it will be appreciated that the selecting process may be performed based on any well known metric and need not be limited to those disclosed above. Further the RAN may perform the selecting process based on any combination of metrics included among those listed above and or those well known in the art.

In of the RAN arranges the selected ATs from in a given order to generate the ACM. For example the given order may be arranged such that the AT expected to be most likely to respond timely to the interactive multicast message is arranged first followed by the next AT expected to be most likely to respond and so on. In an example the ACM may be structured as a control message being addressed to the MATI similar to the DOS message as discussed above with respect to . In another example the given order may be designated by the ACM by providing Unicast ATIs UATIs within the ACM with each UATI designating or addressed to one of the selected ATs from . Accordingly the first UATI within the ACM corresponds to the first AT within the given order the second UATI within the ACM corresponds to the second AT within the given order and so on. It will be appreciated that to reduce channel load less than all of the multicast group members located within a given sector may be designated by the UATIs within the ACM. Accordingly generates an ACM for the sector selected in .

In of the RAN determines whether an ACM has been generated for each sector determined in . If the RAN determines that not all ACMs have yet been generated the ACM generation process returns to and may repeat the process for a new sector. Otherwise if the RAN determines that all ACMs have been generated the process terminates at .

Further while steps through are described above as being sector based these steps may alternatively be performed at a location area LA level or multicast area MA level e.g. determines the number of MAs or LAs having at least one target AT selects one of the determined MAs or LAs and so on . MAs and LAs are described in greater detail below with respect to .

Returning to the embodiment of it will be appreciated that illustrates one example of ACM generation but the ACM may alternatively be generated in other ways. For example the ACM may be configured to include an APersistence value without first including an ordered designation of UATIs. For example as discussed above the Access Parameters message is typically broadcasted to all ATs and includes an APersistence value used by each respective AT. In an example the ACM may correspond to an AccessParameter message which is broadcasted but In an embodiment of the present invention may be configured to be associated with the multicast message e.g. addressed to the MATI . Accordingly the multicasted AccessParameter message may determine a temporary APersistence for multicast group responses to the interactive multicast message. Alternatively the temporary APersistence value may be sent in a Storage BLOB assignment message e.g. on the downlink control channel . Generally the APersistence value discussed above is temporary in the sense that it is used for responding to the interactive multicast message and is thereafter reset back to the default APersistence value as established by conventional AccessParameter messages. APersitence values are well known in the art and will be discussed in greater detail below with respect to of .

In another alternative ACM example the ACM need not include the actual APersistence value but rather may include a given value from which the respective ATs may derive their own temporary APersistence value. Thus in an example the ACM may be configured to include a value N indicating the number of ATs within the multicast group. The respective ATs may then use the value N to calculate the temporary APersistence value as will be described in greater detail below with respect to of .

Next the RAN determines whether to apply special handling instructions or treatment to the multicast message in . Generally the determination of is performed as in of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. If the RAN determines not to apply special handling the ACM is sent to the multicast group members or ATs along with a BOM in the next available slot designated for the BOM e.g. see general discussion of BOM transmission as described with respect to . For the sake of simplicity the following description relating to ACM handling are described as if the ACM is sent along with a multicast message included within the DOS message on the control channel. However it will be appreciated that the ACM may alternatively be sent with the BOM with regard to any responsive actions at the AT in response to the ACM described below.

Next steps and correspond to steps S and S as discussed above with respect to and as such a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

In of the RAN transmits the DOS message including the interactive multicast message and the generated ACMs to each target AT within each sector including more than one target AT or multicast group member. It will be appreciated that the ACM included in the transmission of varies from sector to sector e.g. or from LA to LA MA to MA etc. based on which ACM corresponds to which sector as determined in the process of as discussed above. In an example both the DOS message and the ACM are sent over the downlink control channel in e.g. in a first MAC layer packet of a next available control channel capsule . In an example the ACM may be transmitted as a StorageBLOBAssignment message on the downlink.

Next in of the target ATs e.g.AT A AT B and AT C receive the DOS message including the interactive multicast message and the ACM on the downlink control channel and extract the interactive multicast message from the DOS message e.g. as in of .

In the embodiment of in a given target AT analyzes the multicast message extracted in of and determines whether the multicast message is an interactive multicast message requiring a response or feedback e.g. a PTT call which requests a dialogue with one or more group members . If the given target AT determines that the multicast message is not interactive the process terminates at and the given target AT need take no further action in support of the multicast message. Otherwise if the given target AT determines that the multicast message is interactive the process advances to .

In the given target AT determines whether an ACM has been received which is associated with the interactive multicast message. If the given target AT determines that no associated ACM has been received the process advances to and the given target AT sends a response to the RAN via the uplink access channel without delay. In other words the given target AT does not wait before responding but rather responds as soon as possible e.g. based on a default APersistence value .

Alternatively in if the given target AT determines that an associated ACM has been received the process advances to . In the given target AT determines the AT order information stored within the associated ACM. The AT order information includes a sequential order or list of ATs which each target AT may interpret as an order e.g. a slot order in which the respective target ATs are granted access to the uplink access channel. For example as discussed above with respect to of the AT order information may be stored as a sequential list of UATIs addressed to different respective ATs with the sequence of UATIs corresponding to the AT order information.

In of the given target AT determines whether the AT order information designates the given target AT within the sequential list of ATs. An example of this determination will now be provided with respect to Table 1 below 

In if the given target AT determines that the AT order information designates the given target AT within the sequential list of ATs the process advances to otherwise the process advances to . For example if the given target AT is AT B and the ACM corresponds to ACM Example 1 from Table 1 the determines that AT B is present within the sequential list of ATs as UATI2. In an alternative example if the given target AT is AT B and the ACM corresponds to ACM Example 2 from Table 1 the determines that AT B is not present within the sequential list of ATs.

In the given target AT waits a number of slots based on the given target ATs position within the AT order information or sequential list of ATs of the ACM. For example if the given target AT is AT A and the ACM corresponds to ACM Example 1 from Table 1 the given target AT waits zero slots and responds e.g. on a next or first slot of the uplink access channel without delay because the AT A is the first listed AT within the sequential list of ATs of the ACM. In an alternative example if the given target AT is AT A and the ACM corresponds to ACM Example 2 from Table 1 the given target AT waits one slot and responds e.g. on a next slot of the uplink access channel only after the delay of one slot because the AT A is the second listed AT within the sequential list of ATs of the ACM e.g. the first available slot is reserved for another target AT . After waiting in accordance with the given target AT responds to the RAN in .

In if the given target AT is not present within the sequential list of ATs of the ACM the given target AT waits a number of slots based on the total number of ATs listed in the ACM. For example if three 3 ACMs are listed via three different UATIs in the ACM and the given target AT is not addressed by one of the three different UATIs the given target AT waits three 3 slots in e.g. to allow each of the ATs given access channel priority by the ACM to attempt access before a non listed or non priority AT .

Next in the given target AT determines whether to respond to the RAN in a next slot e.g. after the waiting . For example the given target AT may execute a probabilistic process or APersistence process to determine whether to access the uplink access channel in order to respond to the interactive multicast message. APersistence is defined by the 1 EV DO standard and is typically provided the AccessParameters message. As discussed above with respect to of the AccessParameters message is broadcasted e.g. over the broadcast channel BCH to all ATs and includes the APersistance value or function to be used by each AT. For example 0.85 is a commonly used APersistence value. Thus if a mobile subscriber is attempting to originate a call the likelihood of call origination for any given slot is 0.85 or 85 . If the call is not made in a first slot the mobile subscriber tries again with another 85 likelihood in a next slot and so on. Thus call origination is likely for each time slot while the likelihood of perpetual call origination failure e.g. a worst case scenario is unlikely because an interfering mobile subscriber will at some point not interfere with the mobile subscriber.

However this default form of APersistence may not be sufficient to avoid collisions of concurrent responses from multiple ATs and as such the ACM may be configured to include an APersistence which is particularly configured to handle concurrent simultaneous responses as may be expected in response to an interactive multicast message sent to a relatively large number of ATs. For example if N is the total number or an estimate of the total number of target ATs within a given cluster e.g. a physical area that may or may not correspond one or more sectors or sector e.g. in the initialized multicast member set of for the given target AT s sector the number of which may be included along with the AT order information within the ACM then the given target AT may determine to access the uplink access channel in with a probability based on N. For example the probability may be 1 N 1 N X wherein X is the number of ATs designated within the AT order information of the ACM etc. Generally may attempt to ensure that following the reserved slots for the listed ATs within the ACM on average a relatively small number e.g. 1 2 etc. of ATs accesses the uplink access channel per slot.

Accordingly the ACM may instruct ATs to respond to an interactive multicast message either based on i a designated order or slot sequence e.g. based on the UATI order in the ACM as shown in ACM examples 1 and 2 ii an APersistence value based on an estimate N of the total number of ATs within the sector or cluster which may potentially interfere with each other without any associated deterministic function or designated order or iii the estimate N from which the respective ATs may calculate their own APersistence value. It will be appreciated that ii and iii may each be used in conjunction with i e.g. the designated order may be followed by an APersistence function for any non designated ATs not present in the order . Further while the process of is directed to the embodiment wherein i is used in conjunction with ii or iii it will be appreciated that ii or iii may be used independently of i . For example if the designated order includes zero ATs only the APersistence function may be used to establish interactive multicast message feedback in accordance with either ii or iii .

In the given target AT determines whether the probabilistic process results in a determination to access the uplink access channel. If the given target AT does not determine to access the uplink access channel the process returns to and repeats for the next slot. Otherwise if the given target AT determines to access the uplink access channel the process advances to and responds to the RAN on the uplink access channel in the designated slot. After the given target AT resets the response protocols indicated by the ACM in and resumes normal operation in . In other words once the given target AT returns to the APersistence value designated in the ACM is no longer used and rather the given target AT returns to using the APersistence value specified by the broadcasted AccessParameters Message as in the conventional art until a new ACM is received designating a new temporary APersistence value.

As discussed above with respect to steps and of information related to group members of a given multicast group may be based on group member reports provided to the RAN by the respective multicast group members. Accordingly which will now be described illustrates a multicast group member reporting process according to an embodiment of the present invention.

In the embodiment of in a given AT belonging to one or more multicast groups powers on. After the given AT powers up the given AT sends group membership information group member report to the RAN in e.g. after locating a pilot signal sent by one or more base stations within the RAN and or performing any other initial power up procedures . For example the group membership information provided by the given AT may include a designation of each group to which the given AT wishes to belong. In an example the group member reports may be included within a standard BCMCSFlowRegistration message or alternatively may be included within a proprietary or non standard message such as a group membership notification GMN message encapsulated in a StorageBLOBNotification message on the uplink. For example the GMN may include a list of multicast IP addresses and port numbers.

In after reporting the group membership information the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls etc. . In the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a supplemental route update or report or alternatively whether to update its group membership information with a supplemental group member report. The determination of may be performed in any of a number of ways. For example the determining may be based on a distance based registration DBR protocol such that the given AT updates its location information after traversing a given distance e.g. based on which sector s the given AT has traversed etc. . The given distance may be based on which base stations the given AT has been handed off which base stations the given AT has been monitoring while in an idle state etc. In an alternative example the determination of may be based on a given period such that the given AT provides a report to the RAN once for each period. In another alternative example the given AT may send a location update report and a group member report to the RAN each time the given AT enters a new location area LA where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN . In another alternative example the determining may be based on whether the given AT wishes to change its group membership information e.g. the given AT wants to monitor a new multicast group communication wants to stop monitoring a previously requested multicast group communication etc. .

If the given AT determines not to update its location information and or its group membership information in the process returns to and the given AT resumes normal operation. Otherwise in the given AT sends a supplemental report e.g. one or more of a location report or a supplemental group membership report to the RAN before returning to .

While the multicast group members or ATs provide group member reports to the RAN the RAN monitors the reports. The RAN maintains a database including the number of ATs belonging to any particular group which ATs belong to which group how recently each group member has provided a location update report a position e.g. sector of each group member etc. The position of each group member may be stored at the RAN as being within a particular multicast area MA where each MA corresponds to a group of contiguous sectors which potentially serve one or more group members e.g. potentially because the location of the group members may not be in the granularity of a sector because the group members may not respond to an interactive multicast message etc. . In an example more than one MA may be identified for a group if group members are geographically dispersed.

While the embodiments of have been described as directed to scheduling responses to interactive multicast messages in conjunction with the earlier described embodiment of it will be appreciated that the embodiments of need not be so limited. For example the ACM may be used to schedule interactive multicast message feedback or responses even for conventional interactive multicast messages and need not be limited to examples where the multicast message is sent on the control channel encapsulated within a DOS message. In other words the scope of the embodiments of the present invention encompasses any type of multicast or broadcast message that receives feedback from the AT. Further the multicast feedback may be encapsulated in the initial response e.g. within an access probe or may be contained in a follow up message once a traffic channel has been established. However in either situation embodiments of the invention will reduce potential collision problems and may increase the probability that the response is received for the ATs having designated or reserved slots e.g. the ATs listed in the ACM .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

