---

title: Frequency arrangement for surface code on a superconducting lattice
abstract: A device lattice arrangement including a plurality of devices, a plurality of physical connections for the plurality of devices, wherein each of the plurality of devices are coupled to at least two of the plurality of physical connections, a plurality of identity labels associated with individual devices of the plurality of devices and an arrangement of identity labels such that pairs of devices of the plurality of devices connected by some number of the plurality of connections have different identity labels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111230&OS=09111230&RS=09111230
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09111230
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 10 1 0324 awarded by Army Research Office ARO . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to quantum information processing and more specifically to systems and methods for a frequency arrangements for implementation of surface code on superconducting lattices.

Quantum information processing holds potential for solving certain categories of mathematical problems that are intractable with conventional machine computation. Building a useful quantum computer requires the implementation of a quantum error correcting code on a system consisting of several million physical qubits. Recently the surface code has emerged as an architecture for a quantum computer due to its high tolerance to errors on the physical qubits. The surface code has a fault tolerant threshold of about 1 . In this architecture each physical qubit is coupled to it nearest neighbor forming a two dimensional grid with half the qubits being used to store the quantum information and the other half being used for the error correction.

Superconducting qubits have made considerable progress recently in experimental demonstration of the requirements for implementing a surface code quantum computer. Recently single and two qubit gates have been shown to have gate errors approaching the fault tolerant threshold and high fidelity measurements are becoming feasible.

Exemplary embodiments include a device lattice arrangement including a plurality of devices a plurality of physical connections for the plurality of devices wherein each of the plurality of devices are coupled to at least two of the plurality of physical connections a plurality of identity labels associated with individual devices of the plurality of devices and an arrangement of identity labels such that pairs of devices of the plurality of devices connected by some number of the plurality of connections have different identity labels.

Further exemplary embodiments include a superconducting qubit surface code system including a first plurality of superconducting qubits a second plurality of superconducting qubits and a plurality of resonators coupling the first and second plurality of superconducting qubits wherein the each of the plurality of first and second plurality of superconducting qubits includes an identity label.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein arrange a lattice of superconducting qubits on a skew symmetric lattice so that a universal quantum computer with the surface code can be implemented. In this way a reduced number of identifiers is realized i.e. about five identifiers . To realize a surface code with superconducting qubits a skew square or Pythagorean lattice of resonators can be implemented as in which illustrates a skew square lattice arrangement . Each qubit is coupled to two physical connections e.g. resonators . The resonators can be resonant cavities in the case of superconducting qubit technology. The skew square lattice arrangement has the benefit in that a single qubit only couples to at most two resonators. For example as shown in one qubit couples to two resonators . In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein implement a surface code mapping with fewer ancilla qubits than previously implemented i.e. one ancilla qubit per data qubit and show that with this arrangement fewer different unique labels are implemented e.g. up to about nine different unique labels . The systems and methods described herein implement arrangements for the surface code and include respective frequencies.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein arrange superconducting qubits for the implementation of a universal quantum computer using the surface code on a skew symmetric lattice. For a surface code quantum computer each data qubit is controllably coupled to its four neighboring ancilla qubits in order to perform a series of four controlled NOT CNOT gates which implement a step in the error correction procedure.

The surface code is a two dimensional grid with each qubit coupling to its four neighbors and so on. In order to implement the surface code controllers for surface code systems address two qubits at once and perform a two qubit entangling gate for example the CNOT gate . On this two dimensional grid at least at least five different unique labels are required for the CNOT gates to be realized without cross talk. For example with superconducting qubits the unique labels can be realized with different frequencies or tunable interactions. In superconducting qubits the interactions between the qubits are generally performed by a quantum bus e.g. a co planner resonator or 3D waveguide cavity . By implementing a quantum bus physical design can be realized in which every qubit is only coupled to at most two quantum buses. It has been shown that the surface code could be implemented on a skew symmetric lattice with many of the qubits acting only as ancilla qubits to simulate the effect of the fourfold connectivity implemented by the surface code.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein implement a surface code in which the lattice can be modified to reduce the number of identifiers and labels while maintaining the advantages of the known surface code. The systems and methods described herein enable an efficient mapping of the surface code onto the snub square lattice. As such half the qubits are implemented as data qubits and half the qubits are implemented as measurement ancillas. One mapping has been shown to achieve only of the qubits for data. illustrates a surface code lattice mapping which is a simple square lattice of data qubits that has been deformed into a tiling of trapezoids. The example in is a distorted square lattice representing the lattice for the surface code. In the example the qubits are spread out on the intersections of lattice points. Surface code measurements can be thought of as taking place in a middle point of the resulting trapezoid shapes measuring the X or Z parity of the four surrounding qubits .

The ancillas measurements are done on the interior of each resulting trapezoid shape defined by the qubits . illustrates an example of a snub square lattice arrangement . For illustrative purposes the same four qubits as in are illustrated. Resulting trapezoid shapes are no longer shown. Instead ancilla qubits are shown. The ancilla qubit is connected to the four data qubits whose parity the ancilla qubit measures. Similarly ancilla qubit measures the parities of the qubits on the vertices of next trapezoid to the right consisting of qubits and two more not labeled here. Each of the ancilla qubits measure X parities and each of the ancilla qubits e measure Z parities or vice versa.

As such the layout of the physical connections and qubits in the example in includes the connectivity of the snub square lattice of . The layout has each qubit connected to only two physical connections. The layout is a lattice with the p4g wallpaper group symmetry. A wallpaper group or plane symmetry group or plane crystallographic group is a mathematical classification of a two dimensional repetitive pattern based on the symmetries in the pattern.

The layout can optionally be deformed into the existing skew square layout without changing its basic connectivity properties. The skew square layout has the additional advantage that the physical distance between qubits directly across a physical connection can be increased.

In exemplary embodiments there are many possible combinations of layouts of the previous figures depending on various constraints explained below of the layout such that each qubit has an identity label that differs from every other qubit to which it may need to be connected by a CNOT in carrying out the surface code. Additionally these other qubits also have different labels than one another which allow addressability of both qubits involved in a CNOT while isolating them from other qubits. This labeling scheme is general enough to support various gate control schemes as well as gates other than the CNOT. Because the physical connections in our layout connect some qubits which need not be connected in the surface code see the exemplary embodiments described herein have that the qubits connected by physical connections also have distinct labels. shows how the snub square lattice can be stretched into a traditional square lattice. The squares are stretched versions of the resonators from . Data qubits are located at the upper right and lower left corners of a first set of alternating squares and ancilla qubits are located at the remaining corners the qubits are not shown . The lattice could be physically arranged this way as well but the example in illustrates the isomorphism to the simple square arrangement of the surface code. The labels can then be written down as simple tables of numbers corresponding to the grid points in .

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein can arrange the surface code connections to be addressable as above as described in the previous example having five labels. In this way each row repeats the pattern 123451234512345 and each consecutive row shifts the starting number by 2. In other exemplary embodiments if the data qubits are to have different labels from the ancilla qubits then eight labels can be implemented. The first row has the pattern 1A2B1A2B1A2B the next row is C3D4C3D4C3D4 the next is 2B1A2B1A2B1A the first row shifted by two places the next row is D4C3D4C3D4C3 the second row shifted by two places and then the pattern repeats. Numbers correspond to data qubits and letters to ancilla qubits. In further exemplary embodiments if isolation and addressability is implemented such that every qubit connected through two physical connections has a distinct label then nine labels can be implemented. In exemplary embodiments the pattern 123456789123456789 is implemented on the first row then shifted by three on the next row and so on which allows for every qubit to have the addressability to have two qubit gates performed between it and every qubit to which is connected by a physical connection.

In exemplary embodiments another implementation of nine labels is illustrated in . illustrates a physical lattice of qubits and physical connections as in but with the snub square overly removed for clarity. In the example of there are nine different types of qubits noting that there are different shapes to the data qubits . The red and green qubits are the ancillas while the blue qubits are the data. The large shaded square shows the extent of a unit cell of the lattice the area after which it repeats .

In the example the data qubits and the ancilla qubits have different labels and enough addressability so that every data qubit can have two qubit gates applied between it and every data qubit to which it is joined by a physical connection as well as the gates required for the surface code connecting data qubits to ancilla qubits.

For example certain labels can be different frequencies in the case of superconducting qubits. Additionally the physical connections may need to be isolated from one another being cavities of different frequencies for example. Two cavity labels are sufficient and have been indicated by the two types of physical connections throughout the examples herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just one example. There may be many variations to this diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

