---

title: Comparing subsets of user identities of a social networking platform
abstract: In one implementation, data associated with user identities is extracted from an electronic social networking platform. Based on the extracted data, at least some of the user identities are classified as fitting one or more of multiple different profiles. A first subset of user identities classified as fitting a first profile is identified. A second subset of user identities classified as fitting a second profile is identified. In addition, values for a particular characteristic associated with user identities identified as belonging to the first subset are identified, and values for the particular characteristic associated with user identities identified as belonging to the second subset are identified. A display then is caused that reflects the identified values for the particular characteristic associated with user identities identified as belonging to the first subset and the identified values for the particular characteristic associated with user identities identified as belonging to the second subset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361392&OS=09361392&RS=09361392
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09361392
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130608
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 668 394 filed Jul. 5 2012 and titled COMPARING SUBSETS OF USER IDENTITIES OF A SOCIAL NETWORKING PLATFORM which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

An electronic social networking platform may store data about or otherwise related to users of the electronic social networking platform.

An application may extract data from an electronic social networking platform on behalf of users of the application who also are represented by user identities within the electronic social networking platform. This data extracted from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to the users of the application. In addition this data extracted from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to user identities within the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of users of the application. After extracting this data from the electronic social networking platform the application may process the extracted data to enable analysis of the extracted data for example to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or user identities within the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application .

In one example the application may determine if the individual user identities for whom the application extracted data from the electronic social networking platform belong to any one of a number of different psychographic profiles based on the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. Generally speaking such psychographic profiles may represent one or more particular interests lifestyles values attitudes behaviors and or personality types. After identifying the individual user identities for whom the application extracted data from the electronic social networking platform that belong to the different psychographic profiles the application may enable comparison of characteristics of the user identities that the application identified as belonging to one psychographic profile to characteristics of the user identities that the application identified as belonging to another psychographic profile.

In some implementations the application may enable users of the application who also are represented by user identities within the electronic social networking platform to analyze the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively the application may enable administrators or other representatives of the application to analyze the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore the application may enable various other third parties to analyze the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are just a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be developed in the future. Techniques are described herein for extracting analyzing and or acting upon data from an electronic social networking platform. These techniques are widely applicable and may be employed in connection with any of the above electronic social networking platforms or any other electronic social networking platforms.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable an individual user identity to create a user profile that reflects various different types of information about or otherwise related to the user identity. Such a profile for a particular user identity may be helpful to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in learning more about the particular user identity. Similarly the profile for the particular user identity may be helpful to the user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in confirming that the particular user identity represents a particular human user within the electronic social networking platform.

For example an electronic social networking platform may maintain a user profile for a user identity that reflects the user identity s name gender age relationship status education history e.g. schools attended and or degrees awarded employment history e.g. employers and or positions held contact information e.g. e mail address es telephone number s other electronic addresses physical addresses etc. current residence information e.g. city state territory and or country hometown information e.g. city state territory and or country primary language and or sexual orientation.

Additionally or alternatively the user identity s profile also may reflect various different interests of the user identity and or indications of various different locations that the user identity or another user identity such as for example a member of the user identity s social network has registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited. Such locations may include a wide variety of different types of locations including for example geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. For ease of reference indications of locations registered with an electronic social networking platform as locations that a user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check ins and information stored in a user identity s profile that reflects such indications of locations registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check in information. 

Electronic social networking platforms also typically enable an individual user identity e.g. representing a human user who has registered with the electronic social networking platform and or a human user who has been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the electronic social networking platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users of the electronic social networking platform who are represented by the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users represented by the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms user identities may be able to form connections with other user identities unilaterally. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by requesting to form a connection to the second user identity without requiring authorization of the connection by the second user identity . Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may involve bilateral participation by both user identities. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity requests to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection between the first and second user identities only after receiving authorization to form the connection from the second user identity.

A user identity s social network within an electronic social networking platform may be defined based on the connections between the user identity and other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to extend beyond the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected to include other user identities who are within a threshold level of proximity to the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform. For example social proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of the number of degrees of separation or the number of other intermediate interconnected user identities required to form a connection between the two user identities within the electronic social networking platform and the social network of a particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities who are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity.

Commonly an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with certain increased functionality in connection with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform that the electronic social networking platform may not provide to the particular user identity in connection with user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with one or more different mechanisms for electronically communicating or otherwise sharing content with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may enable a particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform while not enabling the particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform.

The connections between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. As new user identities join and other user identities stop using the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections between user identities are formed and old connections between user identities are dissolved this graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time to represent the current state of connections between user identities within the electronic social networking platform.

As further discussed above an electronic social networking platform may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are members of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking platform also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to publish an electronic message e.g. a status post that is broadcast to all or some defined subset of all of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity who is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may define whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities an electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. Among other examples such other types of objects may include interest objects location objects event objects and application objects.

Interest objects may represent a variety of different types of interests including for example local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures media or other forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. As described in greater detail below in connection with interest objects may be manifested within an electronic social networking platform as so called pages that provide information about the interests that the interest objects represent. These pages may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests that the interest objects represent.

An electronic social networking platform that supports interest objects may enable an individual user identity to record various different interests within the electronic social networking platform by registering endorsements of the interest objects that represent the user identity s interests with the electronic social networking platform. The electronic social networking platform may represent the individual user identity s endorsement of different interest objects within the electronic social networking platform as connections between the user identity and the interest objects that the user identity has endorsed. Furthermore the electronic social networking platform may provide various different mechanisms that enable the one or more representatives of a particular interest object to share electronic communications or otherwise interact with those user identities who have endorsed the particular interest object. For example the electronic social networking platform may enable the one or more representatives of the particular interest object to publish status posts including for example text images and or videos that are broadcast publicly to user identities who have endorsed the particular interest object.

Location objects may represent a variety of different types of locations including for example geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. An electronic social networking platform that supports location objects may enable an individual user identity to form various different types of connections to different location objects. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to record information about the user identity s hometown by establishing a hometown connection with a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Similarly an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to record information about the user identity s current place of residence by establishing a current city connection with a location object that represents the user identity s current place of residence. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to register locations that the user identity has visited by establishing check in connections with location objects that represent locations that the user identity has visited.

In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS map and or other location identifying data available to the mobile computing device.

Event objects may represent events hosted by user identities of an electronic social networking platform and or events hosted by representatives of interest objects. Furthermore event objects may include mechanisms that enable the hosts of the events represented by the event objects to invite user identities to the events. In some electronic social networking platforms event objects may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as event pages that provide information about the events the event objects represent e.g. date time and location information for the events and the electronic social networking platforms may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user identities who have been invited to the event via the event page. 

An electronic social networking platform that supports event objects may establish a connection between an event object and the user identity or interest object responsible for hosting the event represented by the event object. In addition the electronic social networking platform also may establish a connection between an event object and user identities who have been invited to the event represented by the event object and or user identities who register with the electronic social networking platform that they will be attending the event represented by the event object.

As described in greater detail below electronic social networking platforms may enable independent applications to leverage the electronic social networking platforms for example to provide more compelling user experiences for the users of the independent applications by accessing and or extracting data from the electronic social networking platforms generally on behalf of user identities who have granted the independent applications authorization to access and or extract data from the electronic social networking platforms on their behalf. Application objects in an electronic social networking platform thus may represent different applications that leverage the electronic social networking platform.

A wide variety of different types of applications may leverage electronic social networking platforms. Among other examples gaming applications are one common example of applications that leverage electronic social networking platforms. Such gaming applications may allow user identities to engage in interactive or multiplayer games that involve other user identities of the electronic social networking platforms that they leverage. Other examples of types of applications that may leverage electronic social networking platforms include social electronic marketplace applications social event management applications content delivery and sharing applications collaboration applications and social recommendation applications.

An electronic social networking platform that supports application objects may establish connections between an individual application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and user identities who are users of the application represented by the application object and or who are users who have granted the application represented by the application object authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf. Furthermore the electronic social networking platform may provide various different mechanisms that enable an application that leverages the social networking platform to share electronic communications or otherwise interact with those user identities for whom connections have been established with the application object that represents the application within the electronic social networking platform. For example the electronic social networking platform may enable an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and or users of the application that leverages the electronic social networking platform to transmit communications within the electronic social networking platform to user identities for whom connections have been established with the application object that represents the application within the electronic social networking platform.

As illustrated in an edge that connects two nodes represents a connection between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the interest object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such an interest object by endorsing the interest object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and an interest object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects. For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city or current residence connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence. Furthermore in order to store a record of a location the user identity visited the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a location that the user identity visited.

The edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as an event connection. There may be various different types of event connections between user identities and event objects in an electronic social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity tentatively will be attending the event.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the application represented by application object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an application objected may be referred to here as an application connection. 

Electronic social networking platforms may provide various different types of user interfaces for interacting with the electronic social networking platforms. For example for each user of an electronic social networking platform the electronic social networking platform may provide a first GUI that generally presents a feed of content shared by or otherwise related to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network as well as content shared by or otherwise related to other objects e.g. interest location event and or application objects to which the user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform. In some electronic social networking platforms this feed may be referred to as the user identity s news feed. In addition the electronic social networking platform also may provide a second GUI for each user identity of the electronic social networking platform that presents a feed that generally records the activity of the user identity within the electronic social networking platform as well as content shared with the user identity directly by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and or by other objects to which the user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform e.g. interest location event and or application objects . In some electronic social networking platforms this feed may be referred to as the user identity s wall or timeline. 

An electronic social networking platform may include a variety of different content in a user identity s news feed. For example among other types of content a particular user identity s news feed may include i electronic messages such as for example status posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been published generally by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network ii electronic messages and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been published publicly by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which the particular user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform iii electronic messages such as for example walls posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been shared directly with recipient user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and who have configured their privacy settings to share such directed electronic messages and other content with the particular user identity and or iv information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network such as for example check ins events hosted and or attended and application usage e.g. participation in a gaming application .

Similarly an electronic social networking platform may include a variety of different content in a user identity s wall or timeline. For example among other types of content a particular user identity s wall or timeline may include i electronic messages such as for example status posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that the particular user identity published generally to other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network ii electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that the particular user identity shared directly with specific members of the particular user identity s social network iii electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network shared directly with the particular user identity iv electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that applications to which the particular user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform shared directly with the particular user identity and or v information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by the user identity such as for example check ins events hosted and or attended and application usage e.g. participation in a gaming application .

Referring first to GUI includes a news feed that includes different feed items . The items included within news feed include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with James by other user identities who are members of James social network as well as by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which James is connected within the electronic social networking platform.

For example item includes an image and a corresponding message shared with James by a member of James social network identified as John. Similarly item includes a message e.g. a status post shared with James by a member of James social network identified as Jane and item includes a hyperlink to a web page and a corresponding message shared with James by a member of James social network identified as Joe. Although not illustrated in in addition to enabling user identities to share images and hyperlinks with members of their social networks e.g. as illustrated by items and respectively the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to share other types of content with members of their social networks including for example videos. Items and may represent content and or messages that the particular user identities who shared these items i.e. John Jane and Joe respectively published generally to user identities who are members of their own social networks.

In addition to enabling user identities to publish electronic messages and other content generally to other user identities who are members of their social networks the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to send directed messages and other content to individual user identities who are members of their social networks. Such directed messages and other content may be presented within the walls or timelines of the user identities to whom they are targeted. Therefore these directed messages and other content may be referred to as wall posts or timeline posts. The electronic social networking platform may provide user identities with controls for configuring whether such directed messages and other content posted to their walls or timelines also are shared with members of their own social networks. In the event that a targeted user identity selects configuration settings that provide for directed messages and other content posted to the targeted user s wall or timeline to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s social network such wall posts or timeline posts may be presented to the other members of the targeted user identity s social network in their news feeds. 

Item in the news feed of the GUI is an example of a wall post or timeline post that was directed to a targeted user identity who is a member of James social network and who selected configuration settings that provide for the wall post or timeline post to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s own social network. More particularly message was posted to the wall or timeline of a member of James social network identified as John by another user identity identified as Jane. Because the user identity identified as John is a member of James social network and because the user identity identified as John selected configuration settings that provide for wall posts or timeline posts to be shared with other members of his social network the wall post or timeline post from the user identity identified as Jane is presented in James news feed . The user identity identified as Jane may or may not be a member of James own social network.

 News feed also includes information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of James social network. For example item indicates that a user identity identified as Joe checked in at a location identified as World Caf . The location World Caf may be represented as a location object within the electronic social networking platform and may correspond to for example a local restaurant.

The items included within news feed also include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with James by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which James is connected within the electronic social networking platform. For example item includes a message shared with James by an interest object manifested as a page within the electronic social networking platform that represents MicroStrategy Incorporated a software and technology company.

Invitations to events that a user identity receives within the electronic social networking platform also may be presented in the user identity s news feed. For example item in news feed represents an invitation to an event named Housewarming Party being held on April 17 in Washington DC that was sent to James by a user identity who is a member of James social network identified as Joe. As illustrated in item includes a selectable View control that when invoked may provide James with more information about the Housewarming Party event. In addition item also includes a selectable Join control that enables James to register with the electronic social networking platform that he will be attending the Housewarming Party event. As discussed above the Housewarming Party event may be represented as an event object within the electronic social networking platform.

The items presented in news feed provide mechanisms that enable James to react to the content included within the items presented in news feed . For example as illustrated in each of the items presented in news feed includes a selectable Endorse control and a selectable Comment control .

A selectable Endorse control in an item enables James to register an endorsement of the content e.g. message image video link activity etc. included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such endorsements and may present the number of endorsements registered in connection with the content presented in an item in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes an indication that six different user identities have registered endorsements of the picture and message included in item .

A selectable Comment control in an item enables the particular user identity to enter a responsive comment to the content included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such responsive comments and associates them with the content included in the item so that the electronic social networking platform may present any such responsive comments in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes a message by a user identity identified as Joe that was entered in response to the message originally posted by the user identity identified as Jane.

In addition to news feed GUI also includes a selectable Post A Message control a selectable Share A Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post A Message control enables James to compose and publish a status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share A Photo Video control enables James to share a picture or a video and to compose and publish a corresponding status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

Referring now to GUI includes a wall or timeline feed that includes different feed items . The items included within the wall or timeline feed include content and or electronic messages that the user identity identified as James shared with other members of his social network. Such content and or electronic messages may include status posts that James published generally to members of his social network responsive comments that James entered in response to content and or messages shared by other user identities who are members of James social network and wall or timeline posts that James posted to the walls or timelines of specific user identities who are members of his social network.

For example item includes a status post that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network. Similarly item includes an image and a corresponding message that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network. In the event that user identities who are members James social network enter responsive comments to and or endorse status posts that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network any such responsive comments or endorsements also may be presented within wall or timeline feed . For example item includes an indication that two user identities have endorsed message . Similarly item includes a message that was entered by a user identity who is a member of James social network identified as Joe in response to the picture and corresponding message originally posted by James.

Meanwhile item includes a responsive comment that James posted in response to content and or a message shared by a user identity who is a member of James social network identified as John. Item also includes a wall post or timeline post that James posted on the wall or timeline of a specifically targeted user identity who is a member of James social network identified as Joe.

The items included in wall feed or timeline feed also include content and or messages that were posted directly on James wall or timeline by user identities who are members of James social network. For example item includes a message that was posted directly on James wall or timeline by a user identity who is a member James social network identified as Jane.

In addition the items in wall or timeline feed also include information about activities that James has engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform. For example item includes an indication that James has endorsed the MicroStrategy Incorporated interest object as well as four additional interest objects all of which as described in greater detail below in connection with may be manifested within the electronic social networking platform in the form of individual pages. Meanwhile item includes an indication that James has established a connection within the electronic social networking platform to the user identity identified as Jane.

Although not illustrated in a user identity s wall or timeline feed also may include content and or messages that were shared with the user identity as a consequence of the user identity s interaction with an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform. For example in some cases an application that leverages the electronic social networking application may post messages to the user identity s wall or timeline. Additionally or alternatively another user identity may originate a message to the user identity within an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and the application then may cause the message from the other user identity that originated within the application to be posted to the user identity s wall or timeline. 

In addition to wall or timeline feed GUI also includes a profile section that presents a snapshot of profile information for the user identity identified as James. As illustrated in profile section includes information about James employment history software developer at MicroStrategy education history Massachusetts Institute of Technology current residence Washington DC hometown Chicago and birthday July 4 .

As with GUI GUI also includes a selectable Post A Message control a selectable Share A Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post A Message control enables James to compose and publish a status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share A Photo Video control enables James to share a picture or a video and to compose and publish a corresponding status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

As discussed above in some electronic social networking platforms interests may be represented as interest objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. is a diagram of an example of a GUI for an example of an electronic social networking platform within which interests are represented as interest objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. More particularly GUI displays the MicroStrategy page corresponding to the MicroStrategy interest object that represents the software and technology company MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform.

As illustrated in the MicroStrategy page includes a description section that provides background information about MicroStrategy. The MicroStrategy page also includes a feed that includes among other content messages generated by the MicroStrategy page and published to user identities of the electronic social networking platform who have endorsed the MicroStrategy page or otherwise established a connection to the MicroStrategy page within the electronic social networking platform. In addition as further illustrated in the feed also includes messages posted directly to the MicroStrategy page by user identities of the electronic social networking platform. The electronic social networking platform may provide a variety of different mechanisms that enable user identities of the electronic social networking platform to post messages directly to a page such as for example the MicroStrategy page . In one example the electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to post a message directly to the MicroStrategy page by entering text in text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Although not illustrated as such in feed also may include various additional or alternative types of content.

The MicroStrategy page also includes a selectable Endorse control that enables user identities who view the MicroStrategy page and who have not already endorsed MicroStrategy to record an endorsement of MicroStrategy as one of their interests. In response to invocation of selectable Endorse control by a particular user identity the electronic social networking platform records that the particular user identity has endorsed MicroStrategy as an interest for example by establishing a connection between the user identity and the interest object that represents MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform. As illustrated in the MicroStrategy page also includes an indication reporting that 7 443 user identities already have endorsed MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform.

In some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user identity may be shared with or otherwise made available to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In particular in some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user identity may be shared with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide user identities who are members of a particular user identity s social network with access to a detailed user identity profile page that includes among other information indications of interests that the particular user identity has endorsed within the electronic social networking platform.

As described above an electronic social networking platform may enable independent applications to leverage the electronic social networking platform for example to provide more compelling user experiences for the users of the independent applications by accessing and or extracting data from the electronic social networking platforms.

Electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing device connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. Electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

Computing system also may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the functionality ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

As described in greater detail below computing system hosts an independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing device . As such computing system is configured to extract and store data from electronic social networking platform . For example computing system may be configured to exploit API to extract data from electronic social networking platform .

Network may provide direct or indirect communication links between electronic social networking platform computing system and computing device . Examples of network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

Computing device may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example a tablet computer as illustrated in or a mobile phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant a laptop or netbook computer or a desktop computer. Furthermore computing device typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for computing device may store a client application for interfacing with electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with computing system . Additionally or alternatively computing device may be configured to interface with electronic social networking platform or computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser. As such one or more user identities of electronic social networking platform may be able to use computing device to access electronic social networking platform . Similarly one or more users of the independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform hosted by computing system may be able to use computing device to access the independent application.

Computing device also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . Computing device also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

As illustrated in the electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. The electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to construct social networks within the electronic social networking platform by establishing connections with other user identities. Electronic social networking platform enables user identities who are members of a social network within electronic social networking platform to share various different types of data and other content e.g. including electronic messages with each other within the context of the electronic social networking platform .

Furthermore in addition to the service s that electronic social networking platform itself provides to user identities electronic social networking platform also provides mechanisms e.g. API that enable independent applications to leverage electronic social networking platform to provide services to user identities of the electronic social networking platform . For example among other features electronic social networking platform enables user identities of electronic social networking platform to grant access tokens or some other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN to such independent applications that authorize the independent applications to which the tokens are granted to extract data from electronic social networking platform on behalf of the user identities.

In some implementations the token or other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN that a particular user identity grants to an independent application may enable the independent application to access and or extract the particular user identity s user profile data as well as the user profile data for any other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform . Additionally or alternatively the token or other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN that the particular user identity grants to the independent application may enable the independent application to access and or extract data shared or received by the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform as well as data shared or received by any other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform .

As discussed above computing system hosts an independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform . The electronic social networking platform is accessible to the application hosted by computing system over network and for example via API . In addition the application hosted by computing system is accessible to client devices e.g. computing device also over network .

As illustrated in in order for the application hosted by computing system to extract data about or otherwise related to a particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network from electronic social networking platform the particular user identity first may grant the application hosted by computing system a token or some other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN that authorizes the application to extract such data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity. Upon acquiring a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN for the particular user identity the application thereafter may transmit the token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN to electronic social networking platform along with requests to extract data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity. Although schematically illustrates token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN as being transmitted to the application hosted by computing system from the computing device of the particular user identity e.g. computing device it will be understood that token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN actually may be transmitted to the application by the electronic social networking platform e.g. after being authorized to do so by the particular user identity . 

Referring now to when electronic social networking platform receives a request from the application hosted by computing system on behalf of the particular user identity to extract data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network from electronic social networking platform that is accompanied by the appropriate token authorizing the application to extract data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity the electronic social networking platform locates and returns the requested data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network to the application hosted by computing system .

In some implementations the application hosted by computing system may extract the following data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity from the electronic social networking platform name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages within the electronic social networking platform check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the particular user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the particular user identity to other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the particular user identity.

Additionally or alternatively the application hosted by computing system also may extract the following data N about or otherwise related to each other user identity who is a member of the particular user identity s social network from the electronic social networking platform name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages within the electronic social networking platform check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the user identity to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the user identity.

The application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN . Additionally or alternatively the application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN . In this manner in some implementations the application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are not also users of the application hosted by computing system .

After extracting data from the electronic social networking platform the application hosted by computing system may store the extracted data e.g. in the storage components accessible to computing system . More particularly in some implementations the application hosted by computing system may store the extracted data in one or more databases. For example the application hosted by computing system may store the extracted data in one or more on line transaction processing OLTP databases. Such OLTP databases may be implemented as relational or other forms of databases. As described in greater detail below the application hosted by computing system may process the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application. In some such implementations the application hosted by computing system may process the extracted data stored in the database s and load the processed data into a data warehouse e.g. an on line analytical processing OLAP data warehouse that may facilitate reporting and analysis of the processed data.

In order to keep the data that is available to the application hosted by computing system generally synchronized with the data in the electronic social networking platform the application hosted by computing system occasionally may repeat the extraction from the electronic social networking platform of data about or otherwise related to each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN as well as data about or otherwise related to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN .

The application hosted by computing system may use the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for a variety of different purposes. For example the application hosted by computing system may use the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform to provide a compelling user experience for users of the application that is tied into the users social networks.

Additionally or alternatively as suggested above the application hosted by computing system may process the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application. In some implementations the application hosted by computing system may maintain the extracted data and or any intelligence gleaned from the extracted data internally for example to use such intelligence to enhance the performance of the application and or to provide a more personalized user experience. Additionally or alternatively the application hosted by the computing system may make the extracted data and or any intelligence gleaned from the extracted data available to one or more administrators or other individuals associated with the application as well as to various third parties. Furthermore the application hosted by computing system also may share the extracted data and or any intelligence gleaned from the extracted data with the users of the application.

The application hosted by computing system also may provide users with whom the extracted data is shared with various analysis and reporting tools for manipulating the extracted data. Such analysis and reporting tools may reside on or otherwise be provided by computing system . Additionally or alternatively such analysis and reporting tools may be provided within a client application that is resident on a computing device and that is configured to enable the client application to access the application hosted by computing system .

In some implementations the application may enrich the raw data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for example in an effort to enable better intelligence to be gleaned from the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For instance the application may derive various different characteristics or estimates of various different characteristics of the user identities for whom the application extracted data from the electronic social networking platform from the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for the user identities even if the electronic social networking platform itself does not record or make available data about such characteristics.

For example the hometown and or current residence information for a user identity returned by the electronic social networking platform may be incomplete providing only an indication of a city but not the state territory and or country in which the city is located and the application may identify the state territory and or country in which the city is located. Additionally or alternatively the application may determine if a user identity s current residence is urban or rural. The application also may determine if a user identity s current residence belongs to a particular metro area. In addition the application may estimate a user identity s income affluence influence and or popularity based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for the user identity.

Furthermore the application may determine if the user identity belongs to any one of a number of different psychographic profiles based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for the user identity. Examples of different psychographic profiles to which the application may attempt to determine if the user identity belongs may include music lovers movie lovers TV fans social activists sports lovers food lovers book lovers travel lovers art connoisseurs health and beauty conscious game lovers techies comedy lovers car lovers brand conscious religious people outdoor enthusiasts frequent travelers do it yourselfers party goers politics Democrats pet lovers brides to be budget shoppers deal hunters politics Republicans parents of young kids environmentally aware charity minded shopping lovers beverage lovers and on line shoppers.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine the state territory and or country in which a user identity s hometown or current residence is located when the hometown or current residence information for the user identity returned by the electronic social networking platform provides an indication of a city but not the state territory and or country in which the city is located. In some implementations the hometown or current residence information for the user identity returned by the electronic social networking platform may include geographic coordinates corresponding to the user identity s hometown or current residence city. In such implementations the geographic coordinates may be used to identify the location of the city from which the state territory and or country in which the city is located then can be determined. In other implementations the city returned by the electronic social networking platform may be compared to hometown or current residence cities already extracted from the electronic social networking platform for other user identities and if the city matches one of the cities already extracted from the electronic social networking platform for one or more other user identities the state territory and or country information associated with the matched city may be assumed to be the same. In the event that the city returned by the electronic social networking platform matches multiple cities already extracted from the electronic social networking platform located in different states territories and or countries the state territory and or country information associated with the matching city corresponding to the greatest number of other user identities may be assumed to be the state territory and or country to associate with the city.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity s current residence is urban or rural. For example a database of geographic locations e.g. identified by one or more of city state territory and or country name latitude longitude or other geographic coordinates etc. known to be urban locations may be maintained. When a user identity s current residence location is extracted from the electronic social networking platform the user identity s current residence location may be compared to the geographic locations known to be urban locations. If the user identity s current residence location matches one of the geographic locations known to be an urban location then the user identity s current residence may be determined to be urban. If the user identity s current residence location does not match any of the geographic locations known to be urban locations one or more databases that store population data for different locations may be accessed. If the population for the user identity s current residence location can be determined by accessing the database s storing population data and the population for the user identity s current residence location is greater than or equal to a defined threshold value e.g. 15 000 then the user identity s current residence may be determined to be urban. If the population for the user identity s current residence location can be determined by accessing the database s storing population data and the population for the user identity s current residence location is less than a defined threshold value e.g. 15 000 then the user identity s current residence may be determined to be rural. If the population for the user identity s current residence location cannot be determined by accessing the database s storing population data the application may be unable to determine if the user identity s current residence location is urban or rural.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity s current residence belongs to a particular metro area. For example a database of known metro areas may be maintained. This database may store geographic coordinates for each of the known metro areas. In some implementations these coordinates may correspond to the primary city around which the metro area is centered e.g. the coordinates may be the coordinates for the center of the city around which the metro area is centered . In other implementations these coordinates may correspond to the geographic center of the metro area. In still other implementations these coordinates may correspond to boundaries of the metro area. When a user identity s current residence location is extracted from the electronic social networking platform geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence may be determined. In some implementations geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence may be provided by the electronic social networking platform. In other implementations the electronic social networking platform may return the city state territory and or country name of the user identity s current residence. In such implementations a query may be run against the city state territory and or country name of the user identity s current residence to determine geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence. Once geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence have been determined distances between the geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence and any one or more of the geographic coordinates for the known metro areas may be calculated. If the distance between the geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence and the geographic coordinates for any known metro area is determined to be less than or equal to a defined threshold distance e.g. 60 miles the user identity s current residence may be determined to be a part of that metro area. In the event that the distances between the geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence and the geographic coordinates for multiple metro areas are less than or equal to the defined threshold distance the user identity s current residence may be determined to be a part of the metro area to which it is closest. If the distance between the geographic coordinates for the user identity s current residence and the geographic coordinates for all of the known metro areas is determined to exceed a defined threshold distance e.g. 60 miles the user identity s current residence may be determined to not be a part of any metro area.

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s income based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. One particular example is described below.

First a determination may be made as to whether the user identity likely has an income. This determination may be made based upon one or more of the user identity s age employment history and education history. If the user identity has a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income irrespective of the user identity s age and or education history. If the user identity is less than 18 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. If the user identity is between 18 years old and 21 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does not have a college university or a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income. In contrast if the user identity is between 18 years old and 21 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does have a college university or a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. If the user identity is between 22 years old and 25 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does not have a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income. In contrast if the user identity is between 22 years old and 25 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does have a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to not have an income. If the user identity is between 25 years old and 65 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity still may be determined to have an income. If the user identity is more than 65 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. Finally if no age information is returned from the electronic social networking platform for the user identity the application may not be able to estimate the user identity s income.

If the user identity is determined to have an income a base income then is determined for the user identity. Different techniques may be employed to determine a base income for the user identity. For example one or more databases may be maintained that store base incomes to be used for user identities based on the current residence locations of the user identities. In some implementations the same base income may be used for all user identities within a single country. In such implementations the base income to be used for user identities from each country may be the mean or median income for the country. In other implementations different base incomes may be used for user identities from a single country. In such implementations the base incomes to be used may vary at the regional state or even city level and may be based on the mean or median incomes for the corresponding regions states or cities. For example the base incomes to be used for user identities residing in one country may be determined based on the cities in the country where the user identities currently reside. More particularly the base income to be used for a user identity may be the mean income for individuals in the user identity s current residence city. Alternatively the base income to be used for a user identity may be the median income for individuals in the user identity s current residence city.

After determining the base income for the user identity age and education level multipliers then are determined for the user identity. The age multiplier for the user identity may be calculated according to Equation 1 below 

Meanwhile the education level multiplier for the user identity depends on the user identity s education history. If the user identity s age is less than 22 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 2 below. Similarly if the user identity s education history specifies a high school but no college university or graduate school the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 2 below 

If the user identity s education history specifies a college university but no graduate school and the user identity is at least 22 years old or no age is specified for the user identity the user identity s education multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 3 below. Similarly if the user identity s education history specifies a graduate school and the user identity is less than 25 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 3 below 

If the user identity s education history specifies a graduate school and the user identity is at least 25 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 4 below 

The education level multiplier for a user identity who does not satisfy any of the above conditions is 1. 

After the age and education level multipliers for the user identity have been determined the user s estimated income is determined according to Equation 5 below est. income base income age multipler education level multiplier Eq. 5 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s affluence based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. In one example an affluence score for a user identity may be determined for the user identity based on the income estimated for the user identity for example as described above. More particularly the affluence score for the user identity may be calculated by dividing the estimated income for the user identity by the highest estimated income for all user identities for which the application is able to calculate an estimated income and then multiplying the result by 100.

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s influence based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. One particular example is described below.

In this example an influence score may be calculated for a user identity based on the user identity s activity within the electronic social networking platform over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. . First the number of status posts M that the user identity has published within the electronic social networking platform during the defined period of time is determined. In addition the number of distinct users who endorsed each of the M posts is determined and the number of distinct users who commented on each of the M posts is determined. A raw influence score for the user identity then may be calculated according to Equation 6 below raw influence square root over distinct users endorsing post 3 distinct users commenting on post Eq. 6 

A final influence score for the user identity then is calculated for the user identity by converting the user identity s raw influence score to a logarithmic scale and dividing by a maximum cut off value so that the user identity s final influence score is within the range 0 99 according to Equation 7 below 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s popularity based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. One particular example is described below.

In this example a popularity score may be calculated for a user identity based on targeted wall or timeline posts from other user identities wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and or event invitations that the user identity received within the electronic social networking platform over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. .

First the wall or timelines posts from other user identities the wall or timelines posts from gaming applications and the event invitations that the user received within the electronic social networking platform during the defined time period are identified. In addition the sources of each of the identified wall or timeline posts from other user identities the wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and the event invitations are identified. Then for each identified source i of wall or timelines posts from other user identities wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and event invitations a weighted score is calculated according to Equation 8 below posts posted 0.1 of gaming posts 2 quality event invites sent Eq. 8 where of posts posted represents the number of wall or timeline posts from a user identity that originated from the source i of gaming posts represents the number of wall or timeline posts from gaming applications that originated from the source i and quality event invites sent represents the number of event invitations for which more than a defined threshold of invitees have accepted an invitation that originated from the source i.

After the score nhas been calculated for each source i a sum of the scores nfor all M sources may be calculated according to Equation 9 below Eq. 9 

A final popularity score for the user identity then is calculated for the user identity by converting the user identity s raw popularity score to a logarithmic scale and dividing by a maximum cut off value so that the user identity s final popularity score is within the range 0 99 according to Equation 11 below 

As discussed above the application may determine if user identities for whom the application extracted data from the electronic social networking platform belong to one or more different psychographic profiles based on the data for the user identities that the application extracted for the user identities from the electronic social networking platform. A variety of different techniques may be used to determine if a user identity belongs to a particular psychographic profile and the application may consider a variety of different types of data extracted for the user identity from the electronic social networking platform in determining if the user identity belongs to the particular psychographic profile. For example the application may consider the user identity s page endorsements check ins and or demographic characteristics when determining if the user identity belongs to a particular psychographic profile.

Each psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to a collection of certain pages within the electronic social networking platform. The collection of pages corresponding to any particular psychographic profile may be identified based on pages that have been specifically designated within the application e.g. pages that have been hardcoded within the application as belonging to the psychographic profile pages that have been assigned one or more category designations within the electronic social networking platform and or pages that include one or more specified keywords within the text of their page descriptions within the electronic social networking platform.

The application may determine if a user identity belongs to a particular psychographic profile based on the extent to which the user identity has endorsed pages that the application identities as corresponding to the particular psychographic profile. The application may consider any user identity who has endorsed at least one page that corresponds to the particular psychographic profile as a candidate for the psychographic profile. For a user identity that the application has identified as a candidate for a particular psychographic profile the application then may calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity according to Equation 12 below psychographic profile page score Eq. 12 where A represents the number of pages that the user identity has endorsed that correspond to the particular psychographic profile and B represents the total number of pages that the user identity has endorsed within the electronic social networking platform. As described in greater detail below the application then may use the psychographic profile page score calculated for the user identity in determining if the user identity belongs to the particular psychographic profile.

Another factor the application may consider in determining whether a user identity belongs to a particular psychographic profile is the user identity s check ins that the application extracted from the electronic social networking platform. Each psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to a collection of certain check in locations. The collection of check in locations corresponding to any particular psychographic profile may be identified based on check in locations that have been assigned one or more category designations within the electronic social networking platform and or check in locations that have been assigned one or more category designations by the application e.g. specific check in locations that have been hardcoded as belonging to one or more different categories by the application itself . The application may determine if a user identity belongs to a particular psychographic profile based on the extent to which the user identity has checked in at locations that the application identifies as corresponding to the particular psychographic profile.

Examples of techniques for determining if a user identity belongs to the different psychographic profiles introduced above are now described.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the music lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The music lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as musician band musical genre song music video and music. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the music lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the music lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the music lovers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the music lovers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the music lovers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the music lovers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as concert music venues or music stores more than six times within the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the movie lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The movie lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as movie actor director movie genre movie theater and movie general. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the movie lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the movie lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the movie lovers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the movie lovers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the movie lovers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the movie lovers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as movie theaters at least once a week every week for the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the TV fans psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The TV fans psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as TV show TV network TV channel TV and TV genre. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the TV fans psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the TV fans psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the TV fans psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the social activists psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The social activists psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as non profit organization and cause. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the social activist psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the social activist psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the social activist psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the sports lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The sports lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as athlete professional sports team sports league sports recreation activities recreation sports amateur sports team school sports team sport and sports. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the sports lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the sports lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the sports lovers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the sport lovers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the sport lovers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the sport lovers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as sporting venues more than six times within the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the food lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The food lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as restaurant caf and food. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the food lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the food lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the food lovers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the food lovers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the food lovers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the food lovers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as restaurants at least once a week for the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the book lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The book lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as book genre book author and library. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the book lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the book lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the book lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the travel lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The travel lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as hotel travel leisure bags luggage transportation and transport freight. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the travel lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the travel lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the travel lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the art connoisseurs psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The art connoisseurs psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as museum art gallery arts humanities and artist. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the art connoisseurs psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the art connoisseurs psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the art connoisseurs psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the art connoisseurs psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the art connoisseurs psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the art connoisseurs psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as museums or art galleries on average once a month for the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The health and beauty conscious psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as health wellness vitamins supplements health beauty lifestyle and spas beauty personal care or pages that include the keyword fashion in their descriptions. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized belonging to one of these categories or that includes the keyword fashion in its description the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the health and beauty conscious psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as fitness centers or exercise cosmetics fashion health and beauty beauty products fashion show health and fitness health and hygiene or hair care locations at least once a week for the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the game lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The game lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as games and games toys. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the game lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the game lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the game lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the techies psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The techies psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as appliance computers Internet computers technology Internet software software and computers. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the techies psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the techies psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the techies psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the comedy lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The comedy lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as comedians comedy or humor. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the comedy lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the comedy lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the comedy lovers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the comedy lovers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the comedy lovers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the comedy lovers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as comedy clubs more than three times within the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the car lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The car lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as automotive cars and automobiles and parts. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the car lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the car lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the car lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the brand conscious psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The brand conscious psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as jewelry watches and clothing as well as the following specific pages Givenchy Lord Taylor Calvin Klein Underwear Donna Karan New York GUESS by Marciano UNITED COLORS OF BENETTON DKNY Lucky Brand Nine West Kenneth Cole AIX Armani Exchange Diesel HUGO BOSS BCBG BCBGMAXAZRIA GUESS Inc. Juicy Couture ARMANI Barneys New York INTERMIX ALEXANDER WANG bebe Saks Fifth Avenue Marc Jacobs Intl Michael Kors The Official Page Neiman Marcus Dolce Gabbana Tory Burch Gucci Burberry ZARA Victoria s Secret Pink and Victoria s Secret. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to the categories jewelry watches or clothing or any of the other specific pages the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the brand conscious psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the brand conscious psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the brand conscious psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the religious people psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The religious people psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as church religious organization and religion. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the religious people psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the religious people psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the religious people psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the religious people psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the religious people psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the religious people psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as churches synagogues or places of worship at least six times within the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the outdoor enthusiasts psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The outdoor enthusiasts psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as sports recreation outdoor gear attractions things to do tours and landmark. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the outdoor enthusiasts psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the outdoor enthusiasts psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the outdoor enthusiasts psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the frequent travelers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The application may determine that the user identity belongs to the frequent travelers psychographic profile if the user identity has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as airports or hotels or to locations that are more than 100 miles away from his her current residence city at least once a week for the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the do it yourselfers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The do it yourselfers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as home garden farming agriculture household supplies home improvement and tools equipment as well as the following specific pages IKEA Lowe s Home Improvement and The Home Depot. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to the categories home garden farming agriculture household supplies home improvement and tools equipment or any of the other specific pages the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the do it yourselfers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the do it yourselfers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the do it yourselfers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the party goers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. To be considered as a potential member of the party goer psychographic profile the user identity may need to be within a defined age range e.g. between 18 years old and 45 years old . Furthermore the party goers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as arts entertainment nightlife bar and club. If a user identity is within the defined age range and has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the party goers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the party goers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the party goers psychographic profile. Even if the application determines that the user identity s page endorsements do not qualify the user identity for membership in the party goers psychographic profile the application still may determine that the user identity belongs to the party goers psychographic profile based on the user identity s check in activity. For example the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the party goers psychographic profile if the user identity is within the defined age range and has checked in to locations classified by the electronic social networking platform and or the application as bars nightclubs or adult entertainment at least once a week over the previous six months.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The politics Democrats psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages within the electronic social networking platform that represent politicians who are Democrats. If a user identity has endorsed at least some predefined number e.g. 3 of pages that represent politicians who are Democrats the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. Additionally or alternatively the application may identify the user identity as belonging to the politics Democrats psychographic profile if the user identity s profile indicates that the user identity is a Democrat or liberal leaning.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the pet lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The pet lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as pet supplies animal and animal breed. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the pet lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the pet lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the pet lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the brides to be psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The application may determine that the user identity belongs to the brides to be psychographic profile if the user identity s profile indicates that the user identity s gender is female and that the user identity s relationship status is engaged. To be considered as a potential member of the brides to be psychographic profile if the user identity s profile does not indicate that the user identity is female and engaged the user identity may need to be female unmarried and within a defined age range e.g. between 17 years old and 58 years old . Furthermore the brides to be psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages that include one or more of the keywords wedding bride and bridal in their descriptions as well as the following specific pages Kleinfeld Bridal Official Page DulhanExpo Bridal Shows BRIDES and Washingtonian Bride Groom. If a user identity is female unmarried and within the defined age range and has endorsed at least some threshold number e.g. 3 of pages from among the specifically identified pages or that include one or more of the keywords wedding bride and bridal then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the brides to be psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the budget shoppers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The budget shoppers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to the following specific pages Half Price Books Nasty Pig Artbeads.com Beyond the Rack Belk Soap.com Kmart Dollar General QVC Costco Sears Marshalls Wal Mart Kohl s and Target. If a user identity has endorsed any one of these specific pages within the electronic social networking platform the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the budget shoppers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the budget shoppers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the budget shoppers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the deal hunters psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The deal hunters psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to any page that includes at least one of the keywords bargains coupon groupon deals discount and thrifty in its description. If a user identity has endorsed any page including at least one of these keywords in its description the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the deal hunters psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the deal hunters psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the deal hunters psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The politics Republicans psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages within the electronic social networking platform that represent politicians who are Republicans. If a user identity has endorsed at least some predefined number e.g. 3 of pages that represent politicians who are Republicans the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. Additionally or alternatively the application may identify the user identity as belonging to the politics Republicans psychographic profile if the user identity s profile indicates that the user identity is a Republican or conservative leaning.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the parents of young kids psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. To be considered as a potential member of the parents of young kids psychographic profile the user identity may need to be within a defined age range e.g. between 17 years old and 45 years old and have a relationship status specified as married or in a relationship. Furthermore the parents of young kids psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as baby goods kids goods and games toys as well as the following specific pages Gymboree Toys R Us Diapers.com drugstore.com Amazon.com and eBay. If a user identity is within the defined age range has a relationship status specified as married or in a relationship and has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as baby goods kids goods and games toys or any one of the specifically identified pages the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the parents of young kids psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the parents of young kids psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the parents of young kids psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the environmentally aware psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The environmentally aware psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to the following specific pages Greenpeace Portugal Greenpeace Mexico National Wildlife Federation National Park Foundation Save The Waves Greenpeace India Keep Virginia Beautiful Piedmont Environmental Council Water.org Solar on the White House Greenpeace Akdeniz T rkiye Greenpeace USA Oceana Conservation International Environmental Defense Fund and Greenpeace International. If a user identity has endorsed any one of these specific pages within the electronic social networking platform the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the environmentally aware psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 25 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the environmentally aware psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the environmentally aware psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the charity minded psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The charity minded psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as cause non profit organizations and non governmental organization NGO . If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the charity minded psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the charity minded psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the charity minded psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the shopping lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The shopping lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as clothing. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to the clothing category the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the shopping lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the shopping lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the shopping lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the beverage lovers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The beverage lovers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to pages categorized within the electronic social networking platform as wine spirits and drink. If a user identity has endorsed any page within the electronic social networking platform categorized as belonging to any one of these categories the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the beverage lovers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the beverage lovers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the beverage lovers psychographic profile.

Various different techniques may be employed to determine if a user identity belongs to the on line shoppers psychographic profile. One particular example is described below. The on line shoppers psychographic profile may be defined as corresponding to the following specific pages drugstore.com Amazon.com and eBay. If a user identity has endorsed any one of these specific pages within the electronic social networking platform the application may consider the user identity to be a candidate for the on line shoppers psychographic profile and calculate a psychographic profile page score for the user identity. If the psychographic profile page score for the user identity is within a predefined top percentile e.g. the top 20 of psychographic profile page scores for all user identities identified as candidates for the on line shoppers psychographic profile then the application may determine that the user identity belongs to the on line shoppers psychographic profile.

As discussed above an application that leverages an electronic social networking platform may process data extracted from the electronic social networking platform in an effort to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application.

Depending upon the application and the scope of the information that the application extracts from the electronic social networking platform in some implementations the analysis of user identities of the electronic social networking platform enabled by the application may be limited to analysis of user identities who also are users of the application. In other implementations the application may enable analysis of user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are users of the application as well as user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the user identities who are users of the application. The discussion of the analysis of user identities of the electronic social networking platform enabled by the application that follows will not generally distinguish user identities of the electronic social networking platform who also are users of the application from user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are not also users of the application. Instead the following discussion generally will focus on the analysis enabled by the application of user identities of the electronic social networking platform for whom the application extracts data from the electronic social networking platform irrespective of whether the user identities are users of the application or are members of the social networks of users of the application.

As discussed above the application may extract a wide variety of different types of information from the electronic social networking platform for each user identity for whom the application extracts information from the electronic social networking platform. For example for each user identity for whom the application extracts information from the electronic social networking platform the application may extract or attempt to extract the following information name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the user identity to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the user identity.

In some situations the application may be unable to extract certain types of information from the electronic social networking platform for a particular user identity. In some cases this may be due to the fact that the particular user identity has not supplied the desired type s of information to the electronic social networking platform. Alternatively the particular user identity may have supplied the desired type s of information to the electronic social networking platform but the application may not be authorized to extract the desired type s of information from the electronic social networking platform for the particular user identity e.g. based on the particular user identity s privacy settings .

As described in greater detail below the GUIs and may enable comparison of i characteristics of user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who have been identified as belonging to one psychographic profile based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform to ii characteristics of user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who have been identified as belonging to another psychographic profile based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform.

Referring first to GUI displays a pop up window that includes a first psychographic profile selection menu and a second psychographic profile selection menu . Psychographic profile selection menus and enable a user to specify two different psychographic profiles for which the user desires to compare characteristics of the different user identities who have been identified as belonging to the psychographic profiles. In particular as illustrated in psychographic profile selection menus and enable a user to select from among the following psychographic profiles health and beauty conscious outdoor enthusiasts do it yourselfers budget shoppers brides to be travel lovers brand conscious techies pet lovers car lovers party goers book lovers art connoisseurs parents of young kids environmentally aware comedy lovers music lovers game lovers movie lovers food lovers social activists deal hunters sports lovers politics Republicans and politics Democrats. In addition GUI is configured to enable a user to scroll the views of psychographic selection menus and to enable selection from among additional psychographic profiles including for example TV fans religious people frequent travelers charity minded shopping lovers beverage lovers and on line shoppers.

Responsive to user selection of a first psychographic profile via psychographic profile selection menu the application identifies the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who belong to the first psychographic profile. Similarly responsive to user selection of a second psychographic profile via psychographic profile selection menu the application identities the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who belong to the second psychographic profile. As illustrated in a user has selected the politics Democrats psychographic profile with psychographic selection menu and the politics Republicans psychographic profile with psychographic selection menu .

Consequently the application identifies the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. In addition the application identifies data about various different characteristics of the user identities identified as belonging to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities identified as belonging to the politics Republicans psychographic profile from among the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example among other data the application may identify the gender current residence relationship status and page endorsements for the user identities identified as belonging to the politics Democrats psychographic profile as well as for the user identities identified as belonging to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. In addition the application may identify similar data for all user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform.

Thereafter as illustrated in the application presents various different data about the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile and the overall population of user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for example to enable comparison of characteristics of the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile and or the overall population of user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform.

Referring now to GUI presents aggregated statistics about various different characteristics of the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile and the overall population of user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For starters GUI indicates that the application has extracted data from the electronic social networking platform for 12 235 265 different user identities and that of these 12 235 265 different user identities 229 126 user identities have been identified as belonging to the politics Democrats psychographic profile while 96 809 user identities have been identified as belonging to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

In addition GUI includes a Gender panel that provides graphical representations of i a breakdown by gender of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom gender data is available ii a breakdown by gender of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom gender data is available and iii a breakdown by gender of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for whom gender data is available . As illustrated in slightly more than 50 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are male while just under 50 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are female. In comparison approximately 67 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are male while approximately 33 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are female. Furthermore just over 50 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are male while slightly less than 50 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are female.

GUI also includes an Urbanicity panel that provides graphical representations of i a breakdown of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom current residence data is available according to whether the user identities currently reside in urban or rural locations ii a breakdown of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom current residence data is available according to whether the user identities currently reside in urban or rural locations and iii a breakdown of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for whom current residence data is available according to whether the user identities currently reside in urban or rural locations. As illustrated in slightly more than 80 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile currently reside in urban locations while slightly less than 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile currently reside in rural locations. In comparison slightly more than 65 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile currently reside in urban locations while slightly less than 35 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile currently reside in rural locations. Furthermore approximately 80 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform currently reside in urban locations while approximately 20 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform currently reside in rural locations.

As described above the current residence information for user identities extracted from the electronic social networking platform may not actually indicate whether the locations of current residence of the user identities are in urban or rural areas. Instead the current residence information for user identities extracted from the electronic social networking platform may simply identify the current cities and perhaps states territories and or countries of residence of the user identities. As such the application may employ intelligent mapping techniques such as for example those described above to the current cities and perhaps states territories and or countries of residence of the user identities extracted from the electronic social networking platform to determine whether the current locations of residence of the user identities are in urban or rural areas. In some cases the application may not be able to determine whether a particular user identity s location of current residence is located in an urban or rural area based on the current residence information extracted from the electronic social networking platform for the particular user identity. In such cases the application may not include data for the particular user identity in the statistics presented in the Urbanicity panel .

GUI further includes a Relationship Status panel that provides graphical representations of i a breakdown by relationship status of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom relationship status data is available ii a breakdown by relationship status of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom relationship status data is available and iii a breakdown by relationship status of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for whom relationship status data is available . As illustrated in slightly less than 30 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have a relationship status of single approximately 15 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have a relationship status of in a relationship slightly less than 5 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have a relationship status of engaged and slightly more than 50 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have a relationship status of married. In comparison slightly over 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile have a relationship status of single slightly more than 5 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile have a relationship status of in a relationship approximately 3 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile have a relationship status of engaged and slightly less than 70 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile have a relationship status of married. Furthermore approximately 33 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform have a relationship status of single approximately 20 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform have a relationship status of in a relationship slightly less than 5 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform have a relationship status of engaged and slightly more than 40 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform have a relationship status of married. 

GUI also includes an Age Bracket panel that provides graphical representations of i a breakdown by age bracket of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom age data is available ii a breakdown by age bracket of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom age data is available and iii a breakdown by age bracket of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for whom age data is available . As illustrated in less than 1 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 13 16 year old age bracket slightly less than 5 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 17 21 year old age bracket approximately 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 22 29 year old age bracket approximately 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 29 35 year old age bracket slightly more than 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 36 45 year old age bracket slightly less than 20 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 46 58 year old age bracket slightly less than 10 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are in the 59 70 year old age bracket and approximately 3 of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are older than 71. In comparison less than 1 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 13 16 year old age bracket slightly less than 5 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 17 21 year old age bracket slightly more than 10 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 22 28 year old age bracket approximately 15 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 29 35 year old age bracket slightly less than 25 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republican psychographic profile are in the 36 45 year old age bracket slightly less than 30 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 46 58 year old age bracket approximately 10 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are in the 59 70 year old age bracket and slightly less than 5 of the user identities who belong to the politics Republican psychographic profile are older than 71. Furthermore slightly less than 5 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 13 16 year old age bracket approximately 15 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 17 21 year old age bracket slightly less than 30 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 22 28 year old age bracket slightly more than 20 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 29 35 year old age bracket slightly more than 15 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 36 45 year old age bracket slightly less than 10 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 46 58 year old age bracket approximately 3 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are in the 59 70 year old age bracket and approximately 2 of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform are older than 71. It will be understood that the age brackets illustrated in the Age Bracket panel may be arbitrary and that the application may use other age brackets instead. Moreover in some implementations the application actually may enable a user to configure the age brackets to be used within the Age Bracket panel . Furthermore in some implementations the application may display the average age of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom age data is available the average age of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom age data is available and the average age of all of the user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform for whom age data is available .

GUI further includes a Popular Interest panel . Popular Interest panel has a first sub panel that presents a list of different categories of interests determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. In addition Popular Interest panel has a second sub panel that presents a list of different categories of interests determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. Furthermore Popular Interest panel has a third sub panel that presents a list of interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing pages hosted within the electronic social networking platform by user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. Finally Popular Interest panel has a fourth sub panel that presents a list of interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing pages hosted within the electronic social networking platform by user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

As discussed above sub panel presents a list of different categories of interests determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. The categories of interests listed in sub panel may correspond to categories assigned by the electronic social networking platform to pages hosted by the electronic social networking platform. For example the electronic social networking platform may maintain its own taxonomy for categorizing pages and the application may determine categories of interests that are popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile by identifying categories of pages for which the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have endorsed relatively large numbers of pages. 

As illustrated in sub panel includes a Fans column that indicates the number of endorsements of pages belonging to each page category listed in sub panel by user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. As further illustrated in the categories of interests listed in sub panel are listed from top to bottom in descending order of the number of endorsements of pages belonging to each category by user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. In some implementations the application may identify the categories to list in sub panel by identifying some predefined number e.g. 20 of the categories for which user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile have endorsed the greatest number of pages. 

Given screen real estate constraints the view of sub panel displayed within GUI may not include all of the categories of interests identified by the application as being most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. Therefore GUI may be configured to enable a user to scroll the view of sub panel to display additional categories of interests identified by the application as being popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile.

Like sub panel sub panel presents a list of different categories of interests determined to be most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. As illustrated in sub panel includes a Fans column that indicates the number of endorsements of pages belonging to each page category listed in sub panel by user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. As further illustrated in the categories of interests listed in sub panel are listed from top to bottom in descending order of the number of endorsements of pages belonging to each category by user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. In some implementations the application may identify the categories to list in sub panel by identifying some predefined number e.g. 20 of the categories for which user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile have endorsed the greatest number of pages. 

Given screen real estate constraints the view of sub panel displayed within GUI may not include all of the categories of interests identified by the application as being most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. Therefore GUI may be configured to enable a user to scroll the view of sub panel to display additional categories of interests identified by the application as being popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

As discussed above sub panel presents a list of interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing pages hosted within the electronic social networking platform by user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile determined to be popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. More particularly sub panel includes a Fans column that indicates the number of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile who have endorsed each page listed in sub panel . As illustrated in the pages listed in sub panel are listed from top to bottom in descending order of the number of user identities who have endorsed each page. In some implementations the application may identify the pages to list in sub panel by identifying some predefined number e.g. 20 of the pages endorsed by the greatest number of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile.

Given screen real estate constraints the view of sub panel displayed within GUI may not include all of the pages identified by the application as being most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile. Therefore GUI may be configured to enable a user to scroll the view of sub panel to display additional pages identified by the application as being popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile.

Like sub panel sub panel presents a list of interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing pages hosted within the electronic social networking platform by user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile determined to be popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. More particularly sub panel includes a Fans column that indicates the number of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile who have endorsed each page listed in sub panel . As illustrated in the pages listed in sub panel are listed from top to bottom in descending order of the number of user identities who have endorsed each page. In some implementations the application may identify the pages to list in sub panel by identifying some predefined number e.g. 20 of the pages endorsed by the greatest number of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

Given screen real estate constraints the view of sub panel displayed within GUI may not include all of the pages identified by the application as being most popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. Therefore GUI may be configured to enable a user to scroll the view of sub panel to display additional pages identified by the application as being popular among the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

In some implementations the application may categorize interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform into different categories e.g. Companies Products Travel Games Apps General Entertainment etc. . In such implementations the application may present lists of interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform determined to be most popular among user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile within one or more of these different categories. For example the application may present lists of the most popular interests recorded by user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile within the Companies Products Travel Games Apps and or General Entertainment categories. Similarly the application also may present lists of the most popular interests recorded by user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile within the Companies Products Travel Games Apps and or General Entertainment categories.

In addition to the comparisons of the different characteristics of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile illustrated and described above in connection with the application also may enable a comparison of the current locations of residence of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile to the current locations of residence of the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

For example referring now to GUI presents a bubble chart overlaying a map that plots both i the number of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile for whom current residence data is available as a function of the geographic locations of their current residences and ii the number of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile for whom current residence data is available as a function of the geographic locations of their current residences. As illustrated in the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile are represented by relatively light bubbles and the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile are represented by relatively dark bubbles. Furthermore the size of a bubble plotted over a geographic location represents the number of user identities who belong to the corresponding psychographic profile who currently reside at the location where larger bubbles represent greater numbers of user identities.

In some cases a single city may be specified as the city of current residence both for user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and for user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. In such cases in some implementations the application may determine which psychographic profile has the greater number of user identities who have specified the city as their city of current residence and render e.g. shade color etc. the bubble plotted over the city in a manner that corresponds to the psychographic profile determined to have the greater number of user identities who have specified the city as their city of current residence. Responsive to user selection of the bubble plotted over the city the application may display an informational window that presents indications of the number of user identities belonging to each psychographic profile who have specified the city as their city of current residence.

Furthermore in some implementations GUI may be configured to enable zooming in and out on the map . For example as illustrated in the view of the map has been zoomed in to focus on the continental United States.

In addition to enabling the comparisons of the different characteristics of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile illustrated and described above in connection with the application also may enable a comparison of other characteristics of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile. For example among other characteristics the application may present breakdowns of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile by education history e.g. highest level of education completed for instance high school college graduate school etc. country of residence metro area and or primary language. Additionally or alternatively the application also may present estimated income information e.g. average estimated income estimated influence information e.g. average estimated influence scores and or estimated popularity information e.g. average estimated popularity scores for the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile and for the user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile.

In addition to enabling the comparison of characteristics of all of the user identities who belong to one psychographic profile to characteristics of all of the user identities who belong to another psychographic profile as illustrated and described above in connection with the application also may enable a user to apply filters to the two segments of user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles thereby enabling a comparison of characteristics of sub segments of the user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles who share one or more characteristics in common as defined by the filter s . Furthermore in some implementations the application may enable a user to first apply one or more filters to the user identities to identify a subset of the user identities who share one or more characteristics in common. Thereafter the user may specify psychographic profiles for which the user desires to compare the characteristics of the user identities who belong to the psychographic profiles.

Referring again to GUI includes a selectable filter button . Responsive to actuation of selectable filter button by a user GUI may cause a display of a menu of filter options to enable a user to specify one or more filters to be applied to the two segments of user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles in order to define sub segments of the user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles who satisfy one or more characteristics defined by the filters specified by the user.

For example referring now to responsive to actuation of selectable filter button by a user GUI causes a display of a menu of filter options. As illustrated in the menu of filter options includes a selectable psychographic profiles filter option a selectable gender filter option a selectable age filter option a selectable relationship status filter option a selectable education level filter option a selectable income bracket filter option a selectable urbanicity filter option a selectable country filter option a selectable state territory filter option a selectable metro area filter option a selectable country of origin filter option a selectable language filter option a selectable page filter option a selectable affluence filter option a selectable influence filter option and a selectable popularity filter option . In response to user actuation of any of these selectable filter options and GUI may display controls that enable a user identity to specify corresponding filters.

For example referring now to responsive to user actuation of selectable psychographic profiles filter option GUI expands psychographic profiles filter option to display a first psychographic profile specification field and a second psychographic profile specification field . Psychographic profile specification fields and enable a user to specify different psychographic profiles for which the user desires to compare characteristics of the user identities who belong to the psychographic profiles. As illustrated in the user has maintained the politics Democrats psychographic profile and the politics Republicans psychographic profile as the two psychographic profiles for which the user desires to compare characteristics of the user identities who belong to the psychographic profiles.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable gender filter option GUI expands gender filter option to display options e.g. male female undeclared for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by gender. In response to selection of any one or more of the options for filtering the user identities by gender the application will include only those user identities who satisfy the selected gender options in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Responsive to actuation of selectable age filter option GUI expands age filter option to display different age brackets for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by age. In response to selection of any one or more of the age brackets the application will include only those user identities who fall into the selected age brackets in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. It will be appreciated that the age brackets illustrated in are examples and that in other implementations other age brackets may be provided as filtering options.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable relationship status filter option GUI expands relationship status filter option to display options e.g. engaged in a relationship married single undeclared for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by relationship status. In response to selection of any one or more of the options for filtering the user identities by relationship status the application will include only those user identities who satisfy the selected relationship status options in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Referring now to responsive to user actuation of selectable education level filter option GUI expands education level filter option to display options e.g. high school college graduate school undeclared for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by education level. In response to selection of any one of the filter options for filtering the user identities by education level the application will include those user identities whose highest level of education corresponds to the selected filter options in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. For example in response to selection of high school as an education level filter the application will include those user identities whose highest level of education is high school in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. Similarly in response to selection of graduate school as an education level filter the application will include those user identities whose highest level of education is graduate school in the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable income bracket filter option GUI expands income bracket filter option to display different income brackets for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by income. In response to selection of any one or more of the income brackets the application will include only those user identities whose estimated incomes e.g. calculated based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform as described above fall into the selected income brackets in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. It will be appreciated that the income brackets illustrated in are examples and that in other implementations other income brackets may be provided as filtering options.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable urbanicity filter option GUI expands urbanicity bracket filter option to display different options e.g. urban rural NA undeclared for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles based on whether the application has determined their current residences to be in urban or rural areas e.g. using the techniques described above . In response to selection of any one or more of the urbanicity filter options the application will include only those user identities whose current residences satisfy the selected urbanicity filter options in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Referring now to responsive to user actuation of selectable country filter option GUI expands country filter option to display a country specification field . Country specification field enables a user to specify one or more countries where user identities current residences must be located in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable state territory filter option GUI expands state territory filter option to display a state territory specification field . State territory specification field enables a user to specify one or more states or territories where user identities current residences must be located in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable metro area filter option GUI expands metro area filter option to display a metro area specification field . Metro area specification field enables a user to specify one or more metro areas where the application must have determined user identities current residences to be located in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic segments.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable country of origin filter option GUI expands country of origin filter option to display a country of origin specification field . Country of origin specification field enables a user to specify one or more countries that user identities must have specified as their countries of origin in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic segments.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable language filter option GUI expands language filter option to display a language specification field . Language specification field enables a user to specify one or more languages that user identities must have specified as their primary languages in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic segments.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable page filter option GUI expands page filter option to display a page specification field . Page specification field enables a user to specify one or more pages hosted by the electronic social networking platform that user identities must have endorsed in order for the application to include the user identities in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic segments.

Referring now to responsive to user actuation of selectable affluence bracket filter option GUI expands affluence bracket filter option to display different affluence brackets for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by affluence. In response to selection of any one or more of the affluence brackets the application will include only those user identities whose estimated affluence e.g. calculated based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform as described above falls into the selected affluence brackets in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. It will be appreciated that the affluence brackets illustrated in are examples and that in other implementations other affluence brackets may be provided as filtering options.

Responsive to user actuation of selectable influence bracket filter option GUI expands influence bracket filter option to display different influence brackets for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by influence. In response to selection of any one or more of the influence brackets the application will include those user identities whose estimated influence e.g. calculated based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform as described above falls into the selected influence brackets in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. It will be appreciated that the influence brackets illustrated in are examples and that in other implementations other influence brackets may be provided as filtering options.

Referring now to responsive to user actuation of selectable popularity bracket filter option GUI expands popularity bracket filter option to display different popularity brackets for filtering the user identities belonging to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles by popularity. In response to selection of any one or more of the popularity brackets the application will include only those user identities whose estimated popularity e.g. calculated based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform as described above falls into the selected popularity brackets in the defined sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles. It will be appreciated that the popularity brackets illustrated in are examples and that in other implementations other popularity brackets may be provided as filtering options.

A variety of different options for filtering user identities belonging to different psychographic profiles have been described and illustrated above in connection with . Any of these options may be used individually or in combination with any other option to filter the user identities belonging to the different psychographic profiles to define sub segments of the user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles. After sub segments of the user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles have been defined the application may enable comparison of different characteristics of the user identities who belong to the defined sub segments of the user identities who belong to the different psychographic profiles.

Consider as an example the scenario where a user of the application uses the filtering options to specify that the sub segments of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles should include user identities who fall into the age brackets 22 28 29 35 or 36 45 who have a relationship status of engaged or married who have an education level of college or graduate school who have estimated incomes of 50 000 60 000 60 000 80 000 80 000 100 000 or 100 000 140 000 and who have popularity scores calculated by the application that fall into the popularity brackets 50 59 60 69 70 79 80 89 and 90 99. As illustrated in responsive to user specification of these criteria for the sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles the application identifies the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles who satisfy these criteria and updates GUIs and to enable comparison of different characteristics of the sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles.

In particular referring first to the application has updated GUI to reflect that the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile includes 295 user identities who fall into the age brackets 22 28 29 35 or 36 45 who have a relationship status of engaged or married who have an education level of college or graduate school who have estimated incomes of 50 000 60 000 60 000 80 000 80 000 100 000 or 100 000 140 000 and who have popularity scores calculated by the application that fall into the popularity brackets 50 59 60 69 70 79 80 89 and 90 99. Similarly the application has updated GUI to reflect that the segment of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile includes 156 user identities who fall into the age brackets 22 28 29 35 or 36 45 who have a relationship status of engaged or married who have an education level of college or graduate school who have estimated incomes of 50 000 60 000 60 000 80 000 80 000 100 000 or 100 000 140 000 and who have popularity scores calculated by the application that fall into the popularity brackets 50 59 60 69 70 79 80 89 and 90 99. Furthermore the application has updated GUI to reflect that there are a total of 6 566 user identities for whom the application extracted data from the electronic social networking platform who fall into the age brackets 22 28 29 35 or 36 45 who have a relationship status of engaged or married who have an education level of college or graduate school who have estimated incomes of 50 000 60 000 60 000 80 000 80 000 100 000 or 100 000 140 000 and who have popularity scores calculated by the application that fall into the popularity brackets 50 59 60 69 70 79 80 89 and 90 99.

The application also has updated the aggregated statistics about the various different demographic characteristics presented in Gender panel Urbanicity panel Relationship Status panel and Age Brackets panel of GUI to reflect the demographic characteristics of the sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and politics Republicans psychographic profiles who satisfy the filtering criteria. In addition the application has updated the popular interest information presented in Popular Interest panel to reflect the interests that are popular among the sub segments of the user identities who belong to the politics Democrats and the politics Republicans psychographic profiles who satisfy the filtering criteria.

Referring now to the application has updated the bubble chart of GUI to plot i the number of user identities who belong to the politics Democrats psychographic profile who satisfy the filtering criteria as a function of the geographic locations of their current residences and ii the number of user identities who belong to the politics Republicans psychographic profile who satisfy the filtering criteria as a function of the geographic locations of their current residences.

The computing system extracts data associated with user identities within an electronic social networking platform from the electronic social networking platform . For example for each user identity within a set of user identities the computing system may extract or attempt to extract from the electronic social networking platform some or all of the following types of data name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the user identity to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the user identity. After extracting the data from the electronic social networking platform the computing system may store the extracted data in a computer readable storage device.

Based on the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform the computing system classifies individual user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform as fitting one or more different profiles . For example in some implementations the computing system may classify individual user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform as fitting one or more different psychographic profiles based on the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform. In such implementations the computing system may classify individual user identities for whom data was extracted from the electronic social networking platform as fitting one or more of the following psychographic profiles e.g. according to the techniques described above music lovers movie lovers TV fans social activists sports lovers food lovers book lovers travel lovers art connoisseurs health and beauty conscious game lovers techies comedy lovers car lovers brand conscious religious people outdoor enthusiasts frequent travelers do it yourselfers party goers politics Democrats pet lovers brides to be budget shoppers deal hunters politics Republicans parents of young kids environmentally aware charity minded shopping lovers beverage lovers and on line shoppers.

The computing system receives an indication of a selection of a first one of the multiple different profiles for example for which a user desires to compare characteristics of user identities who have been identified as fitting the first profile to user identities who have been identified as fitting a second profile. In some implementations the computing system may receive an indication of the first profile as a consequence of a user selecting the first profile from within a profile selection menu displayed within a GUI presented to the user such as for example first profile selection menu of GUI illustrated in .

The computing system also receives an indication of a selection of a second one of the multiple different profiles for example for which a user desires to compare characteristics of user identities who have been identified as fitting the second profile to user identities who have been identified as fitting the first profile. In some implementations the computing system may receive an indication of the second profile as a consequence of a user selecting the second profile from within a profile selection menu displayed within a GUI presented to the user such as for example second profile selection menu of GUI illustrated in .

In response to receiving the indication of the selection of the first profile the computing system identifies a first subset of the user identities who have been classified as fitting the first profile . Similarly in response to receiving the indication of the selection of the second profile the computing system identifies a second subset of the user identities who have been classified as fitting the second profile .

In addition to identifying the first subset of the user identities who have been classified as fitting the first profile the computing system also identities values for one or more characteristics associated with user identities identified as belonging to the first subset . For example in some implementations among other characteristics the computing system may identify one or more of the gender city of current residence including in some cases an indication of whether the city of current residence is located in an urban or rural area relationship status and age of individual user identities identified as belonging to the first subset. Furthermore in some implementations the computing system also may identify interests that user identities identified as belonging to the first subset of user identities have recorded with the electronic social networking platform.

Similarly the computing system also identities values for one or more characteristics associated with user identities identified as belonging to the second subset . For example in some implementations among other characteristics the computing system may identify one or more of the gender city of current residence including in some cases an indication of whether the city of current residence is located in an urban or rural area relationship status and age of individual user identities identified as belonging to the second subset. Furthermore in some implementations the computing system also may identify interests that user identities identified as belonging to the second subset of user identities have recorded with the electronic social networking platform.

Thereafter the computing system causes a display that reflects the identified values for the one or more characteristics associated with user identities identified as belonging to the first subset of user identities and the identified values for the one or more characteristics associated with the user identities identified as belonging to the second subset of user identities . For example as illustrated and described above in connection with the computing system may cause a display that reflects aggregated information about one or more of the gender urbanicity of current residence relationship status age and city of current residence of the user identities identified as belonging to the first subset of user identities as well as aggregated information about one or more of the gender urbanicity of current residence relationship status age and city of current residence of the user identities identified as belonging to the second subset of user identities. In some implementations the computing system may cause the display on a display device communicatively coupled to the computing system itself. Additionally or alternatively the computing system may transmit data to another computing device or system enabling the other computing device or system to render the display on a display device communicatively coupled to the other computing device or system.

A number of methods techniques systems and apparatuses have been described. Nevertheless various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For example although various disclosed techniques generally are described herein as being performed externally to an electronic social networking platform using data extracted from the electronic social networking platform in some implementations the techniques disclosed herein may be performed internally within an electronic social networking platform using data stored by the electronic social networking platform.

In addition although one mechanism by which a user identity may record an interest with an electronic social networking platform that is described herein is to endorse a page hosted by the electronic social networking platform there are other ways in which a user identity may record an interest with an electronic social networking platform. Furthermore in some cases a user identity may record an interest with an electronic social networking platform by endorsing a page that is not hosted by the electronic social networking platform. For example in some cases a user identity may record an interest with an electronic social networking platform by endorsing a web page or website that is external to the electronic social networking platform.

Moreover while this disclosure generally tends to describe techniques for comparing characteristics of user identities who have been identified as belonging to different psychographic profiles in the context of comparing characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a first psychographic profile to characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a second psychographic profile the techniques described herein are applicable to comparing characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to any number of different psychographic profiles. For example the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to any arbitrary number of n different psychographic profiles may be compared. In one particular example the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a first psychographic profile the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a second psychographic profile the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a third psychographic profile the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a fourth psychographic profile and the characteristics of user identities identified as belonging to a fifth psychographic profile all may be compared.

The methods techniques systems and apparatuses described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or computer hardware for example by executing instructions stored in tangible computer readable storage media.

Apparatuses implementing these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a computer processor and or tangible computer readable storage media storing instructions for execution by a processor.

A process implementing techniques disclosed herein may be performed by a processor executing instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium for performing desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Suitable computer readable storage devices for storing executable instructions include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape and optical media such as Compact Discs CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs . Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

Although the operations of the disclosed techniques may be described herein as being performed in a certain order and or in certain combinations in some implementations individual operations may be rearranged in a different order combined with other operations described herein and or eliminated and desired results still may be achieved. Similarly components in the disclosed systems may be combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components and desired results still may be achieved.

