---

title: Small form-factor cryptographic expansion device
abstract: A cryptographic expansion device that can be attached to a communication component of a communication device to enable the communication device to perform cryptographic operations on communications sent to and from the communication device is described. The cryptographic expansion device can be a small-form factor cryptographic expansion device that can be used with a small-form factor communication component such as a micro-SIM (subscriber identity module) card. When used with a communication device, the cryptographic expansion device enables the communication device to send and received end-to-end secure encrypted communications. The end-to-end secure communications enabled by the cryptographic expansion device can be utilized by a user of the communication device to perform financial and/or banking transactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426127&OS=09426127&RS=09426127
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 09426127
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130502
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 641 686 entitled CHIP ARCHITECTURE FOR COMMUNICATION CARD filed May 2 2012 the contents of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference for all purposes.

In developing countries and rural areas less than 10 of the population may have access to banking services from traditional brick and mortar banks. In such areas a bank may be physically located too far away for a majority of the population to travel to. And even if a bank is nearby it may be the only bank location in the vicinity of a vast region covering a large number of the population. The brick and mortar bank may not have the resources and capacity to adequately support such a large number of customers resulting in long wait times and inconvenience for the bank s customers. In most developing countries building additional bank branches and or installing automated teller machines ATMs at various locations are often not a viable solution due to the high costs of the complex infrastructure involved. Even in developed countries where there are more bank branches and ATM locations available customers may still have limited access to banking services such as services that are not available from ATMs during non business hours. Furthermore certain customers such as the elderly or customers with disabilities may still have difficulty getting to the bank branches or ATM locations.

In recent years the use of mobile devices in developed and developing countries has grown rapidly. As such one way of providing these communities with access to banking services is to enable users of mobile devices to perform mobile banking transactions such as making mobile payments or money transfers or checking account balances or performing other account related services directly from their mobile devices. However security concerns are often a stumbling block that hinders the wide adoption and growth of mobile banking. Most mobile devices lack the capability to securely send end to end encrypted communication. As a result sensitive information such as a Personal Identification Numbers PINs and Primary Account Numbers PANs might be sent in plaintext form creating a vulnerability in which such sensitive information can be intercepted by malicious parties and be used for fraudulent purposes.

While some security measures can be provided by mobile network operators for example to provide encryption capabilities at a base station the protection provided by such solutions is still limited because the communication is still sent in plaintext form at some point during the transmission. Other solutions require re provisioning of users mobile devices for example by over the air OTA provisioning and such solutions can be costly in terms of both deployment and operating costs. Consequently mobile operators have to either pass this cost onto their customers or absorb it themselves. Thus the total cost of ownership TCO is also often a stumbling block that prevents the uptake and growth of mobile banking. Without a cost effective and efficient way to securely send and receive communication with mobile devices mobile banking operators are destined to incur losses or fail to roll out their mobile banking services entirely.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a cryptographic expansion device that can be attached to a communication component of a communication device to enable the communication device to perform cryptographic operations on communications sent to and from the communication device. In some embodiments the cryptographic expansion device is a small form factor cryptographic expansion device that can be used with a small form factor communication component such as a micro SIM subscriber identity module card. When used with a communication device such as a mobile phone the cryptographic expansion device enables the communication device to send and received end to end secure encrypted communications. The cryptographic expansion device according to various embodiments can be used with a communication device without requiring any changes to the internal software or hardware of the communication device and without requiring any modification to the communication protocols used by the communication device. In some embodiments the end to end secure communications enabled by the cryptographic expansion device can be utilized by a user of the communication device to perform financial and or banking transactions.

According to some embodiments the small form factor cryptographic expansion device is in the form of a label that includes a top electrical contact plate for interfacing to a communication device a bottom electrical contact plate for interfacing to a communication component and a substrate disposed between the top electrical contact plate and the bottom electrical contact plate. The small form factor cryptographic expansion device also includes a hardware security module embedded within the substrate and between the top and bottom electrical contact plates. The hardware security module is coupled to the top and bottom electrical contact plates and includes a secure processing unit and a public processing unit. In some embodiments the small form factor cryptographic expansion device includes an adhesive material disposed on the bottom of the small form factor cryptographic expansion device to attach the small form factor cryptographic expansion device to a communication component such as a SIM card.

According to some embodiments a communication system for sending secure communications includes a communication component and a cryptographic label that is attached to the communication component. The cryptographic label enables a communication device using the communication component to send encrypted data using a cryptoprocessor embedded in the cryptographic label. The cryptographic label includes a top electrical contact plate a bottom electrical contact plate electrically coupled to the communication component a cryptoprocessor embedded in the cryptographic label between the top and bottom electrical contact plates and a processor coupled to the cryptoprocessor and embedded in the cryptographic label between the top and bottom electrical contact plates.

According to some embodiments a method for enabling the transmission of secure communications from a communication device involves the use of a cryptographic label having two electrical contact plates and a cryptographic processor embedded in the cryptographic label. The cryptographic label is attached to a communication component of the communication device via one of the electrical contact plates. The method includes receiving a message at the cryptographic label and determining if the message is associated with a secure operation. The messages is determined to be associated with a secure operation for example if the messages is being used in a financial or payment transaction or if the message includes sensitive data or information such as account numbers and PINs. A secure operation can involve one or more of encryption decryption message authentication code generation or verification hash generation or verification or other functions to be performed by the cryptographic label.

If it is determined that the message is associate with a secure operation the cryptographic processor embedded in the label between the two electrical contact plates performs a cryptographic operation on the data or information associated with the secure operation. The data or information processed by the cryptographic processor is sent from the cryptographic label to the communication device via one of the electrical contact plates for transmission in a secure communication. If the message is determined to be associated with a non secure operation the message is passed through between the communication component and the communication device without being processed by the cryptographic processor. In an exemplary embodiment the communication device can be a mobile phone the communication component can be a SIM card and the secure communication can be sent as an encrypted Short Message Service SMS message an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD message a Near Filed Communication NFC communication or a Radio Frequency RF communication.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a cryptographic expansion device that can be attached to a communication component of a communication device to enable the communication device to perform cryptographic operations on communications sent to and from the communication device. The cryptographic expansion device includes embedded processors and storage capabilities that can be used to implement a Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS compliant hardware security module HSM to provide the communication device with the set of security features and functions as found in industry standard HSMs. When used with a communication device the cryptographic expansion device enables the communication device to send and received end to end secure communications and enables mobile operators to utilize their otherwise unsecure communication channels to send and receive encrypted communications. Furthermore the cryptographic expansion device according to various embodiments can be used with a communication device without requiring any changes to the internal software or hardware of the communication device and without requiring any modification to the communication protocols of the communication device. Thus the cryptographic expansion device according to embodiments of the invention can be widely deployed in a cost effective and efficient way. In some embodiments the end to end secure communications enabled by the cryptographic expansion device can be utilized by a user of the communication device to perform financial and or banking transactions.

Examples of the security features that the cryptographic expansion device can provide include running a secure operating system and secure key management related functions such as cryptographic key generation configuration of security limits and capabilities of the cryptographic keys cryptographic keys backup and recovery secure cryptographic keys storage and revocation and destruction of cryptographic keys. The cryptographic expansion device can encrypt and decrypt data using various encryption standards and protocols including but not limited to Advance Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES Triple Data Encryption Standard Algorithm TDES TDEA Secure Socket Layer SSL Blowfish Serpent Twofish International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA Tiny Encryption Algorithm TEA extended TEA XTEA and or other encryption algorithms or protocols. The cryptographic expansion device can also generate and verify message authentication codes MAC and cryptographic hashes on communications sent to and from a communication device.

It should be appreciated that the cryptographic expansion device according to embodiments of the invention uses dedicated cryptographic hardware components provided in the cryptographic expansion device to perform cryptographic operations. This is different from software encryption technologies that use software with a general purpose processor to perform encryption and provides enhanced security protection over such software encryption technologies. In some embodiments the cryptographic expansion device is implemented as a dual processing unit device that includes a FIPS compliant secure processing unit and a public processing unit. This division in hardware roles introduces an additional level of security by providing a physical and logical separation between interfaces that are used to communicate critical security parameters and other interfaces that are used to communicate other data. Furthermore the cryptographic expansion device can also provide a tamper resistant mechanism that provides a high risk of destroying components in the cryptographic expansion device and the cryptographic keys stored therein if any attempt is made to remove or externally access the cryptographic expansion device.

According to some embodiments the cryptographic expansion device is a label that is attachable to a communication component such as a subscriber identity module SIM card of a mobile device such as a mobile phone. In implementations in which the SIM card is a full size SIM or a mini SIM the circuitry of the cryptographic expansion device implementing the HSM or the processing units are positioned on the label in an area that is located away from and outside the footprint of the electrical contact regions of the label that interfaces with the SIM card. While this may be a viable option for form factors that have considerable unused area outside the electrical contact region for smaller form factors such as that of a micro SIM the area outside of the electrical contact region may be too small to accommodate the circuitry of the cryptographic expansion device. Accordingly embodiments of the invention provide a way to outfit a small form factor communication component such as a micro SIM card with a cryptographic expansion device by sandwiching the circuitry of the cryptographic expansion device implementing the HSM or the processing units between two electrical contact plates that form the electrical contact region of the cryptographic expansion device.

As used herein the term secure communication refers to a communication that includes at least some portion of the communication that is sent or received in an encrypted format. The term secure operation refers to a process or a function that involves performing one or more cryptographic operation. Examples of a secure operation can include sending or receiving of a secure or encrypted communication or performing a financial or banking transaction with encrypted data. The term cryptographic operation refers to any of encryption decryption MAC generation or verification hash generation or verification and or any of the functions provided by the cryptographic expansion device as described herein. The term non secure communication refers to a communication that is sent or received in plaintext form. The term non secure operation refers to a process or a function that does not involve performing a secure operation.

According to various embodiments the cryptographic expansion device can be attached to a communication component of a communication device to enable the communication device to send and receive secure communications. A communication device is a device that is capable of sending and receiving communications with a recipient device. The communication device can be a mobile device such as a mobile phone or other types of portable communication device e.g. a personal digital assistant portable computing devices such as tablet computers or laptops or portable multi functional devices that can send and receive communications such as portable media players readers portable gaming devices etc. . The recipient device that the communication device communicates with can be another communication device a payment device such as point of sale POS device or an automated teller machine ATM networking equipment and or telecommunication equipment of a mobile network operator. In some embodiments of the present invention the communication device may lack the capability to perform cryptographic operations to encrypt and decrypt communications sent to and from the communication device. A cryptographic expansion device can be attached to a communication component of the communication device to provide the communication device with the capability to perform cryptographic operations. In other embodiments the communication device may be capable of performing some cryptographic operations for example to encrypt or decrypt data using encryption software. In such embodiments a cryptographic expansion device can still be used with the communication device to expand and or enhance the cryptographic capabilities of the communication device for example to provide encryption algorithms that may otherwise be unavailable in the encryption software of the communication device.

According to some embodiments the communication component that the cryptographic expansion device attaches to is a user removable communication component of a communication device. For example the communication component can be a subscriber identity module SIM card or other types of communication card that is used in conjunction with the communication device to send and receive communications. The communication component can also be other types of user removable component of a communication device such as various types of memory card for example a secure digital SD memory card that can be used in conjunction with the communication device to send and receive communications.

The communication component of a communication device can come in various form factors. For example in embodiments in which the communication component is a SIM card the communication component can have a form factor according to a full sized SIM card or a mini SIM card as specified in the ISO IEC 7810 standard or a micro SIM card or a nano SIM card as specified in the ETSI TS 102 221 standard. In other embodiments for example in which the communication component is a SD memory card the communication component can have a form factor according to a full size SD card a micro SD card or a mini SD card as specified in the SD standard of the Secure Digital Association.

According to various embodiments the cryptographic expansion device includes one or more integrated circuits implementing a hardware security module HSM disposed therein. illustrate a cryptographic expansion device according to one embodiment of the invention. According to the embodiment as shown the cryptographic expansion device is a cryptographic label and the communication component that the cryptographic label attaches to is a SIM card such as a micro SIM card as shown. illustrates a perspective view of cryptographic label over SIM card . illustrate the planar views of the top and bottom of cryptographic label respectively. illustrates a cross section view of cryptographic label . It should be noted that the figures are illustrative and may not necessarily be drawn to scale.

It should be understood that while the description and explanation provided herein may be made with reference to a particular embodiment the description and explanation provided below are applicable to and can be adapted for other embodiments for example embodiments in which the cryptographic expansion device is used with a SIM card with a different form factor or in which the cryptographic expansion device is used with other types of communication component such as a memory card.

Cryptographic label includes a top electrical contact plate for interfacing to a communication device disposed on the top side of cryptographic label a bottom electrical contact plate for interfacing with a communication component disposed on the bottom side of cryptographic label and a substrate disposed between the top electrical contact plate and the bottom electrical contact plate . Cryptographic label also includes a HSM embedded within substrate and between the top and bottom contact plates and . HSM is electrically coupled to the top and bottom contact plates and and includes a public processing unit PPU which can be implemented with one or more processors or controllers and a secure processing unit SPU which can be implemented with one or more cryptoprocessors. In some embodiments HSM is a packaged semiconductor chip that includes both SPU and PPU in a single package but with a logical and physical separation between SPU and PPU. In other embodiments SPU and PPU can be individually packaged semiconductor chips or semiconductor dies that are coupled together in cryptographic label to implement HSM .

Cryptographic label can also include a coupling element that can be used to attach cryptographic label to a communication component such as SIM card . In some embodiments the coupling element is an adhesive material e.g. shown in disposed on the bottom side of cryptographic label . Thus cryptographic label can be applied to the surface of SIM card similar to an adhesive label or a sticker. In other embodiments the coupling element can be a mechanical mechanism such as notches provided on cryptographic label or a clip that can be used to physically secure cryptographic label to SIM card . In some embodiments cryptographic label can have a substrate that is flexible or semi flexible for example to facilitate the application of cryptographic label to the surface of SIM card . Substrate of cryptographic label can also be rigid or semi rigid for example to provide stiffness to protect the cryptographic label .

According to various embodiments cryptographic label can have various different form factors. In some embodiments cryptographic label can have a form factor with planar dimensions e.g. length and or width that are substantially the same as the planar dimensions of a micro SIM card as shown in the figures. One or more planar dimensions of cryptographic label can be within 1 2 5 10 15 or 20 of the corresponding planar dimension of a micro SIM card. For example in a particular embodiment in which the length of a micro SIM card is 15 millimeters mm and the length of cryptographic label is within 10 of the length of the SIM card the length of cryptographic label can be between 13.5 mm 90 of 15 mm and 16.5 mm 110 of 15 mm .

In other embodiments cryptographic label can have a form factor with one or more planar dimensions that is different than the corresponding planar dimension of the communication component with which cryptographic label attaches to if the size of cryptographic label does not prevent the communication component from being used with a communication device. In other words referring to the embodiment shown in the planar dimensions of cryptographic label should allow SIM card attached with cryptographic label to fit into a SIM card receiving slot of a communication device. It should be noted that this does not mean that the planar dimensions of cryptographic label has to be smaller than SIM card . For example in some embodiments cryptographic label can be longer than SIM card and can extend out of a SIM card receiving slot of a communication device if the communication device can tolerate such a configuration. In other embodiments in which the substrate of cryptographic label is a flexible substrate when cryptographic label is applied to SIM card the excess portions of cryptographic label that extends over the surface of SIM card can be folded over to wrap around SIM card .

Furthermore in some embodiments a cryptographic label with a form factor corresponding to one type of SIM card can be used with a SIM card that has a different form factor. For example although cryptographic label as shown in has a form factor with planar dimensions that are substantially the same as a micro SIM card cryptographic label can be attached to a full size SIM card or a mini SIM card instead of a micro SIM card.

According to some embodiments electrical contact plate is etched cut or otherwise has grooves formed thereon to define individual electrical contacts and to electrically isolate the defined electrical contacts from one another. In some embodiments electrical contact plate may have eight electrical contacts C C defined and formed thereon in accordance with ISO IEC 7810 as shown in . The eight electrical contacts are arranged with four electrical contacts C C in one column along one edge of electrical contact plate and with four electrical contacts C C in another column along an opposing edge of electrical contact plate . In some embodiments the C electrical contact is an electrical ground and can be electrically connected with the central region of electrical contact plate which is the area between the two columns of electrical contacts. In some embodiments the C electrical contact may be electrically isolated from central region or the etch pattern of electrical contact plate may lack a central region . In other embodiments electrical contact plate may only have six electrical contacts with C C in one column and C C in the opposing column because electrical contacts C and C may be unused. In further embodiments any number of electrical contracts can be used to correspond to the number of electrical contacts on the communication component with which cryptographic label interfaces to.

It should also be understood that the etch pattern as shown in the figures is for illustrative purpose only and different embodiments may use different etch patterns to define the electrical contacts in accordance with ISO IEC 7810.

Similar to electrical contact plate electrical contact plate can be etched cut or otherwise has grooves formed thereon to define individual electrical contacts and to electrically separate each electrical contact from one another. In some embodiments the etch pattern of electrical contact plate may be similar to that of electrical contact plate and is a mirror image of electrical contact plate when viewed from the bottom as shown in . The number of electrical contacts defined on electrical contact plate may correspond to the number of electrical contacts on electrical contact plate e.g. electrical contact plates and may each have eight electrical contacts defined or may each have six electrical contacts defined in accordance with ISO IEC 7810 . In other embodiments the number of electrical contacts formed on electrical contact plate may be different than electrical contact plate e.g. one electrical contact plate may have eight electrical contacts and the other electrical contact plate may have six electrical contacts etc. .

According to some embodiments an adhesive material is disposed on the bottom side of cryptographic label around at least a portion of the perimeter of electrical contact plate . The planar area of substrate is sized larger than electrical contact plate and in some embodiments is substantially the same size as the planar area of a micro SIM card. The planar area of substrate that extends beyond the footprint of electrical contact plate allows an adhesive skirt of adhesive material to be disposed on the bottom of substrate . In some embodiments the adhesive skirt corresponds to the plastic region of a micro SIM card surrounding the electrical contact region of the micro SIM card. When cryptographic label is applied to a micro SIM card the adhesive skirt attaches to the plastic region of the micro SIM card and cryptographic label in place to physically and electrically couple the cryptographic label to the micro SIM card.

In some embodiments adhesive material may be disposed along the outside of all four edges of electrical contact plate such that adhesive material surrounds electrical contact plate as shown in . In other embodiments adhesive material may be disposed along the outside of just one or two or three edges of electrical contact plate . In some embodiments adhesive material may extend from the edges of electrical contact plate all the way to the edges of the bottom surface of substrate or cryptographic label as shown. In other embodiments adhesive material may cover just a portion of the area between the edges or perimeter of electrical contact plate and the edges or perimeter of the bottom surface of substrate or cryptographic label .

In addition to securing cryptographic label to SIM card in some embodiments the adhesive material can also serve as a tamper resistant mechanism to provide a high risk of destroying cryptographic label if an attempt is made to remove cryptographic label from SIM card after cryptographic label has been attached to SIM card . For example after cryptographic label has been applied to the surface of SIM card if an attempt is made to remove cryptographic label from SIM card by peeling off cryptographic label the adhesive material may rip apart the electrical contacts of cryptographic label and or the interconnects and circuits electrically coupling the components of cryptographic label to render cryptographic label unusable. Alternatively or in addition the adhesive material may rip apart portions of SIM card to render SIM card unusable as well if an attempt is made to remove cryptographic label from SIM card .

The thickness of cryptographic label is made to be thin enough such that when cryptographic label is attached to SIM card SIM card can still be inserted or removed by a user from a SIM card receiving slot of a communication device such as a mobile phone without the use of complicated tools. In one embodiment substrate has a thickness of 50 microns um the bottom electrical contact plate has a thickness of 30 um and the top electrical contact plate has a thickness of 50 um to yield a total thickness of 130 um for cryptographic label . In other embodiments the total thickness of cryptographic label maybe less than 200 um and in some embodiments less than 150 um. By keeping the thickness of cryptographic label to be less than 200 um cryptographic label can be applied to a SIM card and still allows the SIM card to be inserted into a SIM card receiving slot of a communication device.

As mentioned above HSM can be a single packaged semiconductor chip or die. Alternatively SPU and PPU of HSM can be individually packaged semiconductor chips or semiconductor dies that are coupled together in substrate to implement the circuitry of HSM . Interconnects and circuits electrically coupling the various components i.e. electrical contact plates and HSM and or SPU and PPU of cryptographic label can be formed by etching the circuits into substrate of cryptographic label screen printing the circuits in substrate or by providing the components of cryptographic label with solderable contacts that when heated would bind to circuitry in substrate to form the interconnects and circuits.

In the embodiment as shown in the planar area of the circuitry of HSM which includes SPU and PPU is substantially the same size or smaller than the planar area of the central region or of the top or bottom electrical contact plate or . This allows the interconnects and to be routed from top electrical contact plate to the bottom of HSM around the sides of HSM instead of having interconnect routing in the region between top electrical contact plate and the top of HSM . This may allow substrate to be made as thin as possible because the substrate does not need to accommodate any interconnect routing on the top of HSM .

It should be noted that some signals such as a clock signal corresponding to the C electrical contact in accordance with ISO IEC 7810 can be directly connected between top electrical contact plate and bottom electrical contact plate as shown with interconnect if the signal can be passed through from the communication component e.g. SIM card to the communication device e.g. mobile phone without security consequences. For other signals such as the data I O signal e.g. interconnect corresponding to the C electrical contact in accordance with ISO IEC 7810 which is used to transmit data such as sensitive information or data of financial transactions there is no direct connection between the top electrical contact plate and bottom electrical contact plate because the signal carrying the sensitive data should first be processed by HSM e.g. to encrypt the data before being sent to the communication device for transmission to a recipient device.

It should also be noted that although shows for illustrative purpose the routing of data I O signal from top electrical contact plate to HSM i.e. interconnect as being above or on top of the routing of data I O signal from HSM to bottom electrical contact plate the two interconnects can be routed on the same interconnect layer and only one interconnect layer is required between HSM and bottom electrical contact plate .

It should also be understood that in embodiments in which the circuitry of HSM is of other sizes such as those described with reference to the electrical contact plates can also be formed directly on the package of HSM as shown in . Furthermore in some embodiments there may be only one electrical contact plate C or C that is formed directly on the package of HSM C.

According to some embodiments PPU includes processor memory a communication device interface a communication component interface and a PPU to SPU interface . Processor can be implemented as one or more processors or controllers. Memory is coupled to processor and provides storage to store data and executable code that when executed by processor causes processor to run an operating system OS and or applications that can be complaint with Payment Card Industry PCI and International Organization for Standardization ISO standards to manage the functionality and operations of cryptographic expansion device and to process the exchange of information between the various interfaces of PPU .

Communication device interface is coupled to electrical contact plate that interfaces with a communication device such as a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone and provides a set of signals that can include a clock signal and one or more data input output I O signals to send and receive commands and information between PPU and the communication device. Communication component interface is coupled to electrical contact plate that interfaces to a communication component such as a communication card e.g. a SIM card and provides a set of signals that can include a clock signal and one or more data input output I O signals to send and receive commands and information between PPU and the communication component. PPU to SPU interface is coupled to SPU and provides a set of signals that can include a clock signal and one or more data input output I O signals to send commands and information such as encryption and decryption requests to SPU and to receive commands and information such as encryption and decryption results from SPU . Because of the logical and physical separation between SPU and PPU SPU is exposed to PPU only and is not accessible to the communication device or to the communication component except through PPU . Hence PPU can serve as a firewall or a gatekeeper to ensure unauthorized or unwanted communications such as hacking attempts are not sent to SPU .

According to some embodiments SPU includes cryptoprocessor secure memory and SPU to PPU interface . SPU can also include tamper detection sensors . As mentioned above SPU is accessible from PPU only and receives commands and information from PPU through SPU to PPU interface . SPU to PPU interface provides a set of signals that can include a clock signal and one or more data input output I O signals coupled to PPU to SPU interface that SPU can use to communicate with PPU . In some embodiments SPU will only respond to encryption and decryption requests to perform cryptographic operations from PPU received through SPU to PPU interface .

Cryptoprocessor can be implemented as one or more cryptographic processors. A cryptographic processor is different from a general purpose processor in that a cryptographic processor includes dedicated circuitry and hardware such as one or more cryptographic arithmetic logic units ALU that are optimized to perform computational intensive cryptographic functions. Cryptographic ALU can include optimized pipelines and widen data buses to enable cryptoprocessor to perform cryptographic operations faster and more efficiently than general purpose processors.

Secure memory is coupled to cryptoprocessor and can be partitioned into a cryptographic key storage and a data storage . Data storage can be read and written by cryptoprocessor and provides storage memory to store user data such as data that are received on SPU to PPU interface from PPU and encryption and decryption results that are sent to PPU through SPU to PPU interface . Cryptographic key storage can be read only to cryptoprocessor and is used to store cryptographic keys and encryption algorithms. The cryptographic keys and algorithms stored in cryptographic key storage are provisioned by the manufacturer during manufacturing of cryptographic expansion device and cannot be altered by an external source without a master key that is only known to the manufacturer and or authorized parties who are authorized to provision cryptographic expansion device such as a mobile network operator or a wireless service provider. In some embodiments the contents of cryptographic key storage are never transmitted outside of SPU and is inaccessible by PPU . The cryptographic keys and algorithms stored in cryptographic key storage can be provisioned to perform various encryption standards and protocols including but not limited to Advance Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES Triple Data Encryption Standard Algorithm TDES TDEA Secure Socket Layer SSL Blowfish Serpent Twofish International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA Tiny Encryption Algorithm TEA extended TEA XTEA and or other encryption algorithms or protocols.

In some embodiments SPU may also include tamper detection sensors to detect external attempts to tamper with cryptographic expansion device . For example tamper detection sensors may include temperature sensors to detect temperatures that may be indicative of someone attempting to desolder components of cryptographic expansion device and or mechanical sensors to sense structural changes to cryptographic expansion device that may be indicative of someone attempting to dissect or cut open cryptographic expansion device . Tamper detection sensors may also include electrical sensors to sense certain voltage current or impedance changes to the circuitry of cryptographic expansion device that may be indicative of someone attempting to probe the components of cryptographic expansion device and or electromagnetic sensors to sense certain radiation such as X rays that may be indicative of someone attempting to examine cryptographic expansion device . In some embodiments tamper detection sensors may include circuitry that can erase and whip out the contents of secure memory to render SPU and or cryptographic expansion device unusable in response to detecting an attempt to tamper with cryptographic expansion device . Cryptographic expansion device can also be configured with organic or soluble interconnects that can be dissolved by a solvent released by tamper detection sensors in response to detecting an attempt to tamper with cryptographic expansion device .

Communication device API provides a programming interface to translate commands and information received from communication device into instructions and data that OS can process and execute and vice versa. For example communication device API may translate commands from communication device according to a mobile phone s SIM toolkit protocol into instructions and data that OS can process and execute to respond to the commands and vice versa. Communication component API provides a programming interface to translate commands and information received from communication component into instructions and data that OS can process and execute and vice versa. For example communication component API may translate commands from communication component according to a SIM card s SIM toolkit protocol into instructions and data that OS can process and execute to respond to the commands and vice versa.

OS manages the functionality and operations of cryptographic expansion device and responds to commands and information from communication device e.g. a mobile device such as a mobile phone and or communication component e.g. a SIM card . The functionality and operations of cryptographic expansion device that OS can manage includes responding to user input received on communication device that relates to cryptographic operations masking PIN entries on a user interface of communication device creating ISO PIN blocks in SPU sending encryption and decryption requests to SPU for secure communications sent to and from a communication interface of communication device sending requests to SPU to create or verify MAC or hash values for messages or portions of messages sent to and from a communication interface of communication device providing certificates for HTTPS applications storing encrypted communications history providing basic encryption to external applications and managing commands and information exchange through the various interfaces such as passing through commands and information between communication device to communication component .

For example in response to encryption and decryption commands received from communication device on communication device API OS can send encryption and decryption requests and associated data to SPU . OS may access and process information stored in communication component in response to a command to perform as such received from communication device on communication device API . OS can also access information stored in communication component and forward the information to SPU in response to encryption and decryption commands involving such information. OS can forward encryption and decryption results from SPU to communication device and or communication component . OS can also issue commands to communication device and or communication component for example commands to request communication device to send a secure communication with data encrypted by SPU .

For non secure commands and information i.e. commands and information that do not involve cryptographic operations OS can pass through or forward the non secure commands and information between communication device and communication component . For example in response to non secure commands and information from communication device intended for communication component received on communication device API OS can pass through or forward the non secure commands and information to communication component through communication component API . In response to non secure commands and information from communication component intended for communication device received on communication component API OS can pass through or forward the non secure commands and information to communication device through communication device API .

SPU of cryptographic expansion device includes a cryptographic module API and cryptographic module . Cryptographic module API provides a programming interface to translate commands and information received from OS into instructions and data that cryptographic module can process and execute and vice versa. For example OS may send an encryption decryption request to SPU and cryptographic module API may translate the encryption decryption request into an encryption decryption instruction for cryptographic module to execute. In some embodiments cryptographic module API may also include in the translated encryption decryption instruction which particular encryption algorithm cryptographic module should use based on the particular application that is requesting the cryptographic operation.

According to various embodiments cryptographic module includes a secure application module an encryption decryption module a secure key module a seed key module a random number generator an ISO 0 1 PIN module a MAC HASH module and a certificate module . In other embodiments cryptographic module may include additional modules to perform other cryptographic operations. Secure application module can store one or more secure applications such as mobile banking applications or contactless payment applications. Secure application module can process user input selecting a particular function of the secure applications stored therein and can respond with one or more commands instructing communication device to perform certain operations for example to send an encrypted communication or send a sequence of messages to initiate communication with another device to carry out the user selected function. Secure application module can also instruct encryption decryption module to perform specific cryptographic operations depending on the user selected function.

Encryption decryption module can store and execute various encryption algorithms such as Advance Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES Triple Data Encryption Standard Algorithm TDES TDEA Blowfish Serpent Twofish International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA Tiny Encryption Algorithm TEA extended TEA XTEA and or other cryptographic or encryption algorithms. In response to encryption and decryption requests from PPU or from secure application module encryption decryption module can look up the requested encryption algorithm obtain any necessary keys from other modules in cryptographic module perform the encryption decryption request and respond with the encrypted decrypted data.

Secure key module stores the set of cryptographic or encryption keys that are used in the various encryption algorithms performed by encryption decryption module . The encryption keys can include symmetric keys and or asymmetric keys. Seed key module stores a set of seed keys that are used to initialize the encryption decryption module in certain encryption algorithms such as AES. Seed key module also stores seed keys that are used by random number generator to generate random numbers used in certain encryption algorithms such as RSA and DSA. The encryption keys stored in secure key module and or the seed keys stored in seed key module are provisioned during manufacturing and cannot be altered by an external source without a master key that was used during manufacturing to program cryptographic module . The encryption keys and seed keys can also be provisioned to be specific to a particular cryptographic expansion device and hence the encryption keys and seed keys can be user specific and unique to the user of the cryptographic expansion device . One advantage of providing user specific keys is that if the cryptographic keys stored in cryptographic module is somehow compromised the infiltration will be isolated to a single user and the remaining user base of the mobile network will not be compromised. The affected user s keys can be changed without impacting the configuration of the remaining user base.

In some embodiments cryptographic module includes an ISO PIN module to mask a user s PIN entry into the communication device and to generate PIN blocks e.g. ISO format 0 1 PINs in accordance with ISO 9564 standard. The PIN blocks generated by ISO PIN module stores PINs in an encrypted format that are used to verify a user s identity in banking transactions. The encrypted PINs stored in the PIN blocks of ISO PIN module can be passed from SPU to PPU to be included in secure communications sent from communication device . It should be noted that the PINs stored in ISO PIN module are never stored in plaintext form but are instead stored in an encryption format.

Cryptographic module also include Message Authentication Code MAC Hash module to generate and verify MACs and or hashes for secure communications sent to and from communication device . A MAC or a hash can be generated for a message or a portion of the message such that the recipient can verify the message s data integrity and authenticity. Cryptographic module can also include a certificate module to provide certificates such as Transport Layer Security TLS and Secure Sockets Layer SSL certificates used to verify a user s identity in Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS applications such as web applications accessed on a web browser of communication device .

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention when mobile device is equipped with cryptographic label mobile device can use one or more of the communication interface available in mobile device to send and receive end to end secure communications with a recipient device. For example cryptographic label can enable mobile device to send encrypted Short Message Service SMS or Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD messages using the cellular interface of communication device . In some embodiments in which mobile device has a Near Filed Communication NFC or Radio Frequency RF interface cryptographic label can enable mobile device to send encrypted data in NFC or RF communication using the NFC or RF interface of communication device . Thus cryptographic label can be used with mobile device to encrypt and decrypt any type of communication that mobile device is capable of sending and receiving. In some embodiments the end to end secure communications enabled by the cryptographic label can be utilized by a user of the communication device to access mobile banking services such as managing financial accounts and performing various financial and or banking transactions. Examples of these mobile banking services include but are not limited to making mobile payments making mobile money transfers buying and selling of securities checking account balances and or making other financial account inquiries.

When cryptographic label is attached to SIM card and installed in a SIM card receiving slot of mobile device cryptographic label can provide and or expand the capability of mobile device to perform cryptographic operations to send and receive secure communications. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments cryptographic label provides mobile device with the cryptographic capabilities without requiring any modifications to the internal hardware and or software of mobile device and without requiring any modifications to the internal hardware and or software of SIM card . According to various embodiments SIM card is a standard SIM card that conforms to the ISO IEC 7810 or ETSI TS 102 221 standards and cryptographic label can be applied to the surface of SIM card without requiring any physical modifications to the SIM card itself. For example cryptographic label can be attached to a standard SIM card and be used in a mobile device without requiring the SIM card to be cut or trimmed and without requiring any holes or openings to be formed in the SIM card.

The interactions and the exchange of commands and information between cryptographic label mobile device and SIM card in the exemplary communication system according to one embodiment will now be described in more details with reference to . It should be understood that while the description and explanation provided below are made with reference to the particular embodiment shown in the description and explanation provided below are applicable to and can be adapted for other embodiments for example embodiments in which the cryptographic expansion device is used with other types of communication component such as a memory card. Furthermore the description and explanation provided below are made with reference to commands according to SIM toolkit STK protocol to illustrate that cryptographic label can interoperate with mobile device using the protocol that mobile device uses to communicate with SIM card . In other embodiments in which the communication device communicates with a communication component using a different protocol the description and explanation provided below can be adapted to use the commands in accordance with that protocol such that cryptographic label can interoperate with the communication device seamlessly with requiring any modifications to the software of the communication device.

For example after power up mobile device may send a select file command to select a designated file in the file system of SIM card that stores subscriber information or other types of SIM card related information. Upon receiving the select file command cryptographic label determines that the file being requested is a file in the file system of SIM card and passes through or forwards the select file command to SIM card . SIM card receives the select file command accesses the requested file and sends an response towards cryptographic label indicating that the requested file was accessed successfully and is ready to be read. Cryptographic label then passes through or forwards response to mobile device . In response to receiving response notifying mobile device that the requested file is ready to be read mobile device sends a read command towards SIM card . Upon receiving the read command cryptographic label passes through or forwards the read command to SIM card . In response to the read command SIM card sends file content of the requested file towards mobile device . Depending on the file being requested file content may include subscriber information location region information configuration information such as language preference and or other types of SIM card information. Upon receiving file content cryptographic label passes through or forwards file content to mobile device . The above series of commands and exchange of information may occur multiple times to allow mobile device to read any information stored in SIM card that mobile device may use during its SIM card initialization sequence.

After mobile device finishes reading the information stored in SIM card mobile device may send a terminal profile towards SIM card to inform SIM card of the properties and capabilities of mobile device . The terminal profile may include properties of the mobile device such as the types of communication interfaces available on the mobile device. Upon receiving terminal profile cryptographic label may inspect terminal profile to learn the properties and capabilities of mobile device . Cryptographic label then passes through or forwards terminal profile to SIM card . SIM card may send a response towards mobile device to indicate that terminal profile was successfully received. Upon receiving response cryptographic label passes through or forwards response to mobile device .

Next the process of installing a user menu that lists the features of SIM card and cryptographic label onto mobile device according to one embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to . After the SIM card initialization sequence of mobile device may send a fetch command towards SIM card to obtain any pending commands that SIM card wants mobile device to perform. Upon receiving fetch command cryptographic label may pass through or forward fetch command to SIM card . SIM card may respond with a set up menu command that includes a list of features of SIM card to be included in the user menu of mobile device . Upon receiving set up menu command from SIM card cryptographic label can add its own list of user selectable features to the features of SIM card listed in set up menu command and generates a set up menu command that lists the features of both SIM card and cryptographic label . The list of features added by cryptographic label can include for example mobile banking features such as a menu selection for making mobile payments a menu selection for making mobile money transfer a menu selection for a financial account inquiry a menu selection for making a contactless payment and or other menu selections for services related to financial or banking transactions that a user can perform using mobile device equipped with cryptographic label . Cryptographic label then sends set up menu command that includes the list of features of both SIM card and cryptographic label to mobile device . In response to receiving set up menu command mobile device adds the list of features of SIM card and cryptographic label to the user menu of mobile device .

Mobile device can send a terminal response towards SIM card to indicate that the user menu is set up successfully. Upon receiving terminal response cryptographic label passes through or forwards terminal response to SIM card . SIM card may reply with a response indicating acknowledgement of terminal response towards mobile device . Cryptographic label then passes through or forwards response to mobile device . Mobile device can then display to a user the features and services that cryptographic label can provide on mobile device and the user can select one or more features of cryptographic label from the user menu of mobile device to send secure communication to perform various financial and or banking transactions. A user can also select non secure features of SIM card for example to send unencrypted SMS messages from the user menu of mobile device .

Upon receiving response indicating menu selection command has been received by SIM card cryptographic label passes through or forwards response to mobile device . Mobile device may then send a fetch command towards SIM card to obtain any pending commands that SIM card wants mobile device to perform to carry out the non secure operation selected by the user. Upon receiving fetch command cryptographic label passes through or forwards fetch command to SIM card . SIM card responds to fetch command by sending a device command towards mobile device to instruct mobile device to perform one or more functions of mobile device to carry out the non secure operation. For example device command may instruct mobile device to send an unencrypted SMS over the cellular interface of mobile device or display a stored SMS message on the screen of mobile device . Upon receiving device command from SIM card cryptographic label passes through or forwards device command to mobile device . Mobile device then executes device command to carry out the non secure operation requested by the user.

Depending on the secure operation selected by the user cryptographic label may optionally retrieve information stored in cryptographic label such as an encrypted PIN to carry out the secure operation. In some embodiments certain information stored in SIM card may also be used to carry out the secure operation. For example the secure operation may include sending a secure communication from mobile device to a recipient device and the unique serial number ICCID of SIM card and or the international mobile subscriber identity IMSI of SIM card may be included in the secure communication to verify the identity of the SIM card holder. In such embodiments cryptographic label may optionally send a select file command to SIM card to access the designated file storing the information in SIM card . In response to receiving select file command SIM card sends a response to cryptographic label indicating the designated file has been selected and is ready to be read. Cryptographic label then sends a read command to to SIM card to read the information from the designated file. In response to read command SIM card sends file content for example the ICCID and or IMSI of SIM card to cryptographic label .

Next cryptographic label sends a response to mobile device to acknowledge that the menu selection command was received. Mobile device then sends a fetch command to cryptographic label to obtain any pending commands that cryptographic label wants mobile device to perform to carry out the secure operation. In some embodiments depending on the secure operation selected by the user in response to receiving fetch command cryptographic label may optionally send a display command not shown to mobile device to instruct mobile device to prompt a user for input on the display screen of mobile device for example to prompt the user to enter a PIN account information payment recipient information or other information related to the secure operation being performed. When the user enters the requested information on the user interface of mobile device mobile device sends a user input event command not shown to cryptographic label to notify cryptographic label that user input has been received. Cryptographic label can then send a get user input command to mobile device to request the user input. In response mobile device sends the user input to cryptographic label . Cryptographic label may perform cryptographic operations on the user input such as encrypting the user input using any of the encryption algorithms stored in cryptographic label or generate a MAC or hash of the user input. Cryptographic label sends a response to mobile device acknowledging the user input has been received.

Mobile device may send another fetch command not shown to cryptographic label to obtain further device commands that cryptographic label wants mobile device to execute to carry out the secure operation. Thus mobile device and cryptographic label can optionally exchange a series of fetch commands and device commands in response to those fetch commands to instruct mobile device to perform various functions to carry out the secure operation selected by the user. Furthermore depending on the secure operation selected by the user the information that cryptographic label may request or use to carry out the secure operation is not just limited to user input. For example cryptographic label may send commands to mobile device to instruct mobile device to retrieve information using any of the interfaces of mobile device . Cryptographic label may instruct mobile device to obtain location information from a global positioning system interface of mobile device . Cryptographic label may request information received from an external NFC device through a NFC interface of mobile device . Cryptographic label may instruct mobile device to retrieved information from the internet through a wireless data interface of mobile device and so on. Cryptographic label may perform additional cryptographic operations on any information obtained from the various interfaces of mobile device .

Once cryptographic label has obtained and performed the desired cryptographic operations on the information e.g. account numbers transaction amount etc. that cryptographic label will use to carry out the secure operation in response to a fetch command received from mobile device cryptographic label can transmit a send communication command with an encrypted message that includes any of the information described above to mobile device . The send communication command can instruct mobile device to transmit an encrypted message provided by cryptographic label using any of the communication interfaces available on mobile device . For example the send communication command may instruct mobile device to send a secure SMS message with encrypted data provided by cryptographic label to a server to make a mobile payment or to check account balance. The send communication command may instruct mobile device to send a secure USSD message with encrypted data to start a USSD two way communication session with a banking server. The send communication command may also instruct mobile device to send a secure NFC or RF communication with encrypted data via the NFC or RF interface of mobile device to a NFC or RF enabled recipient device such as a point of sale POS terminal. Because the information that mobile device transmits out in the secure communication is provided to mobile device in an encrypted format by cryptographic label the secure communication is already encrypted when it leaves the communication interface of mobile device . In this manner secure encrypted end to end communication can be maintained between mobile device and a recipient device.

Referring now to in some embodiments the send communication command may instruct mobile device to send a series of messages to a recipient device to set up a secure communication channel or tunnel. The series of messages can be used to verify the identity of recipient device and to verify the identity of mobile device to recipient device . This way of verifying the identities of the communicating devices can be especially useful with NFC and or RF communications where the identity of the recipient device may not be known to mobile device prior to the communication. The series of messages can be a number challenge that includes a specific sequence of numbers that is only known to mobile device as provided by cryptographic label and only known to authorized recipient devices that are allowed to communicate with mobile device .

When recipient device first receives message recipient device does not initially respond to message . Recipient device will not respond until all messages has been received by recipient device and the number sequence transmitted in messages is confirmed to be a valid and correct sequence. Thus recipient device can verify the identity of mobile device based on the number challenge received in the series of messages . Mobile device can also use the number challenge to verify the identity of recipient device . For example if a recipient device response to message mobile device can determine that the recipient device is not an authorized recipient device because an authorized recipient device would not respond right away to message . It should be appreciated that the series of messages is not limited to five messages as shown and can include any number of messages and that the number challenge can be any sequence of numbers sequence of alphanumeric characters or sequence of other types of messages. Furthermore in other embodiments mobile device equipped with cryptographic label can act as a recipient device and be on the receiving end of a number challenge.

In some embodiments to provide an additional level of security to verify the identity of the devices recipient device can respond to the reception of a valid and correct number challenge with an encryption key challenge . The encryption key challenge can be a symmetric key challenge or an asymmetric key challenge. In the encryption key challenge recipient device can send a random number to mobile device to request mobile device to encrypt the random number with an encryption key that would only be known to an authorized device. Mobile device can send the random number to cryptographic label and request cryptographic label to encrypt the random number using the requested encryption key stored in cryptographic label . Cryptographic label can respond to mobile device with the encrypted random number and mobile device then sends the encrypted random number to recipient device . Recipient device then decrypts the encrypted random number with a corresponding key which can be a symmetric key or an asymmetric key. If the decryption results in the random number that recipient device has previously sent to mobile device then recipient device can be further assured that mobile device equipped with cryptographic label is an authorized device and a secure communication channel or tunnel can be established between mobile device and recipient device . Exchange of sensitive information with secure communications between the two devices can then proceed.

One advantage of the being able to verify the identities of the communicating devices using cryptographic label as describe above is that the number sequence of the number challenge and the encryption key used in the encryption key challenge can be provisioned to be unique for each cryptographic label and thus can be provisioned to be user specific. If the number sequence and or the encryption key used in the encryption key challenge is somehow compromised the infiltration will be isolated to a single user and the remaining user base of the mobile network will not be compromised. The affected user s keys can be changed without impacting the configuration of the remaining user base.

At block the cryptographic expansion device receives a protocol message from the communication device according to a communication protocol that the communication device uses to communicate with the communication component. The protocol message can be a command or information that is associated with a secure operation to be performed by the cryptographic expansion device. For example the protocol message can be a command associated with a request from a user to perform a financial or banking transaction using a secure application stored in the cryptographic expansion device such as a mobile banking application or a contactless payment application. The financial or banking transaction can be a mobile payment a mobile money transfer an account balance inquiry or other financial or banking transactions or account inquiries and may involve sending or receiving a secure communication. The protocol message can also be a command or information associated with a non secure operation that is intended for the communication component of the communication device. In some embodiments the protocol message can include a flag or a protocol identification ID field to indicate whether the protocol message is intended for the communication component.

At block the cryptographic expansion device determines if the protocol message is associated with a secure operation. If the cryptographic expansion device determines that the protocol message involves a secure operation to be performed by the cryptographic expansion device for example by examining the flag or the protocol ID of the protocol message then at block using the embedded cryptographic processor the cryptographic expansion device processes the protocol message and performs a cryptographic operation on data or information associated with the secure operation as indicated by the protocol message. The data or information can be data or information that is stored in the cryptographic expansion device and or in the communication component or data or information such as user input or other information that is obtained from an interface of the communication device. For example to carry out a secure operation such as sending a secure communication to perform a financial or banking transaction the cryptographic expansion device may retrieve an encrypted PIN from the cryptographic expansion device obtain subscriber information from the communication component and or obtain user input from the communication device such as a PAN or a portion of a PAN entered by a user on the user interface of the communication device. The data or information associated with the secure operation can also be embedded in the protocol message received from the communication device. For example the protocol message received from the communication device can include an encrypted communication for the cryptographic expansion device to decrypt.

To perform the cryptographic operation on data or information associated with the secure operation the cryptographic expansion device may select a suitable encryption and or MAC or hash algorithm stored in the cryptographic expansion device. The cryptographic expansion device then retrieves a cryptographic or encryption key associated with the selected encryption and performs a cryptographic operation such as encrypting or decrypting the data or information associated with the secure operation using the encryption key and selected algorithm. The cryptographic expansion device may also generate or verify a MAC or hash on data or information associated with the secure operation.

Then at block the cryptographic expansion device sends a device command and or the result of the cryptographic operation i.e. processed data such as encrypted or decrypted data to the communication device in accordance with the protocol of the protocol message. The processed data or device command can be sent from the cryptographic expansion device to the communication device for example via the first electrical contact plate of the cryptographic expansion device. The device command can include commands instructing the communication device to perform certain operations to carry out the secure operation such as sending encrypted data provided by the cryptographic expansion device in a secure communication on a communication interface of the communication device. In some embodiments the communication interface can be a cellular interface for sending SMS or USSD messages or a NFC or RF interface for sending NFC or RF communications. In other embodiments the communication interface can be any of the communication interfaces provided in the communication device. As another example the device command can instruct the communication device to display plaintext data or information to a user that the cryptographic expansion device decrypted from an encrypted message sent to the communication device. It should be understood that depending on the secure operation that is being requested or associated with the protocol message received from the communication device in block the cryptographic expansion device may send more than one device command to the communication device to carry out the secure operation and that in some embodiments there can be multiple iterations of protocol message and device command exchanges to carry out a secure operation.

Referring back to block if the cryptographic expansion device determines that the protocol message is associated with a non secure operation that is intended for the communication component then at block the cryptographic expansion device forwards or passes through the protocol message to the communication component. At block the communication component may reply to the cryptographic expansion device with a response to the protocol message. Upon receiving the response to the protocol message from the communication component at block the cryptographic expansion device forwards or passes through the response to the communication device.

It should be appreciated that while the methods and apparatuses for sending and receiving secure communications discussed above have been described with reference to performing financial and or banking transactions from a mobile device the methods and apparatuses discussed above can also be used to perform secure communications from a mobile device for other applications as well such as personal or corporate secure communication e.g. for sensitive or confidential communications to avoid industrial espionage health care communication e.g. for confidential medical information or electronic prescription delivery or governmental agency communication e.g. for law enforcement .

In certain implementations individual blocks or steps described above with respect to the Figures may be combined eliminated or reordered. Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

The present invention can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic may be stored in an information storage medium as a plurality of instructions adapted to direct an information processing device to perform a set of steps disclosed in embodiments of the present invention. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention.

Any recitation of a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

