---

title: System and methods for account creation using a feature phone
abstract: There is provided systems and method for account creation using a feature phone. A user is able to create an account through a feature phone using limited or no Internet access. A user may request to set up an account with a payment provider and the user is asked to confirm that certain information can be provided to the service provider, such as a name, address, and identifier. Once confirmed correct, the user enters the date of birth. The service provider then request and/or creates an email associated with the account. The service provider then calls the user enter a payment card number, along with an expiration date and security code, as a funding source for the account. The user further establishes a PIN for future transactions. Once confirmed, the account is active and ready to use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432838&OS=09432838&RS=09432838
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09432838
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131218
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 864 445 filed Aug. 9 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Example embodiments of the present application relate generally to account creation using a feature phone and more specifically to creating an account with a payment provider through a feature phone by utilizing a mobile transaction gateway.

Current wireless phone technology provides for smartphones and feature phones. Smartphones usually include a large display data connectivity in addition to voice connectivity and an advanced processor that is operable to execute applications. Many smartphones provide robust capabilities. For instance 4G smartphones provide Internet connectivity with relatively fast upload and download speeds and usually offer a wide variety of Internet connected applications that provide utility and entertainment. Feature phones by contrast offer basic features and are centered on voice connectivity rather than data connectivity. Some feature phones provide Internet connectivity with a browser. However the browser may not provide the same features as applications available with a smart phone and typing may be difficult using keypads of a feature phone. Additional data capabilities offered by feature phones may include Short Message Service SMS messaging and Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD messaging.

While smartphones are quite common in the developed world feature phones tend to predominate in developing economies. Furthermore some mobile services carriers mostly in developing economies have begun to use USSD messaging to provide payment by users of feature phones. In one example a user of a feature phone tops up his or her minutes on the feature phone by providing cash to a vendor at a physical location and then entering data associated with the transaction using a USSD session with a mobile carrier. Thus USSD can be used in very basic monetary transactions.

PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA currently provides methods for online payments and money transfers. In fact PAYPAL provides a cloud based wallet to its users with very robust and sophisticated abilities. The cloud based wallet allows for electronic transactions using any of a number of payment methods e.g. credit cards bank accounts etc. to any registered payee or from any registered payer. However to use these services a user must first create an account with the service or payment provider.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods for account creation using a feature phone through a mobile transaction gateway MTG . Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided. It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the present disclosure. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. Various features may be arbitrarily drawn in different scales for simplicity and clarity.

Various embodiments provide access to and creation of a user account at a feature phone that may have limited or no Internet access. In one non limiting example the user interacts with a service provider via Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD messaging. The user may set up an account with the service offering a cloud based wallet without accessing the Internet. In such examples the payment service for example an e commerce service provider offering the cloud based wallet may provide a menu interface on the phone s screen through which the user may navigate.

Some embodiments include an MTG that communicates with a messaging gateway at the mobile carrier. The payment service has its own computers that communicate with the MTG thereby exposing the services of the cloud based wallet to the MTG. The MTG includes computer executable code which when executed by one or more processors at the MTG manages communications to and from the user s mobile phone. The MTG includes fraud management certificate lookup user information database management and communication with the mobile carrier and payment service. Thus one example includes a MTG that is between the mobile carrier and the payment service where the MTG communicates with the user s phone via the mobile carrier and the payment service to manage account set up and transactions.

It is a feature of various embodiments that the communications with the user occur on a communications channel other than the Internet. As mentioned above USSD provides one such communications channel however the scope of embodiments is not so limited. Other embodiments may use for example SMS messaging Interactive Voice Response IVR a SIM Tool Kit STK application a Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME application and or the like.

The user may access the cloud based wallet to enjoy a comprehensive set of financial transaction options. For instance the user may access a debit account a credit account a bank account or any other account that is linked with the payment service. The user may also pay or be paid by any counterparty linked to the payment service. Thus in contrast to conventional techniques that provide only payment to specific payees e.g. payment to a mobile carrier various embodiments provide payments to and from any arbitrary counterparty using any of a variety of payment methods.

Mobile device may be utilized to establish an account with payment service . In certain embodiments mobile device utilizes one or more communications paths of mobile service carrier to establish the account with payment service . Mobile transaction gateway MTG may be utilized to provide an intermediary service to facilitate the establishment of a payment account. MTG provide communication management between mobile services carrier and payment service by for example providing computer executable code to create and transmit messages between user device and payment service .

Mobile services carrier MTG mobile device and payment service may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of .

Payment service includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with mobile device to facilitate establishment of a user account. Payment service may additionally perform payment and transaction processing services including establishment payment and or renewal of mobile phone bills corresponding to mobile phone . Thus payment service may include an account establishment application and a wallet application which may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments payment service may include additional or different software as required.

An account establishment application of payment service may correspond to an application configured to receive a request to establish an account with payment service and communicate messages between mobile device and payment service to complete establishment of the account. In this regard the account establishment application may communicate with MTG using one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs which expose the underlying account establishment functionality to MTG including account establishment and or management with a wallet application. MTG may be used to communicate message between mobile device and payment service to perform the requested actions of the account establishment application and or wallet application as will be discussed in more detail herein.

A wallet application of payment service may be utilized to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items and or services. Thus the wallet application may receive and or transmit information between mobile device and payment service for processing and completion of financial transactions. For example the wallet application may correspond to a cloud based wallet application enabling a user of mobile device to complete payment using an account with the wallet application for items and or services including mobile phone service e.g. purchases of minutes text messages and or data plans . The wallet application may also communication with MTG using one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs which expose the underlying cloud based wallet functionality to MTG . Additionally the wallet application may provide transaction histories including receipts for use by a user of mobile device .

Additionally payment service may include one or more databases. As previously discussed a user of mobile device may establish one or more user accounts with payment service . User accounts in the database may include user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. A user may link user accounts to mobile device through a mobile device identifier. Thus when a mobile device identifier corresponding to mobile device is transmitted to payment service a user account may be found.

MTG may include one or more devices including computer servers as previously discussed that manage a mobile session to facilitate one or more financial transactions with a user at mobile device . In this regard MTG includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to provide an interface for a user of mobile device to access payment service using at least one of SMS messaging USSD messaging IVR an STK application and or a J2ME application. Thus MTG includes one or more workflow application configured to implement business logic to create and send messages to mobile device and communicate with payment service for account establishment and management. The workflow application may also be in communication with payment service using one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs which expose the underlying workflow functionality to payment service . MTG including the workflow application and or other components of MTG is described in more detail with respect to . While MTG is shown as separate from payment service it is understood in various embodiments MTG may be incorporated within payment service .

MTG communicates over Internet with mobile service carrier . Although shows Internet between MTG and mobile service carrier it is noted that any data connection with or without Internet may be used in various embodiments. Furthermore even though Internet is shown in it is still true that mobile device may not have an Internet connection with payment service because mobile device does not itself communicate over Internet and is unaware of the use of the Internet in one of the paths of communication. Thus the embodiment of is designed to perform even if the user at mobile device has no Internet access through mobile device or has Internet access but chooses not to use it .

Mobile device may correspond to a feature phone with limited or no Internet connectivity. Thus in various embodiments mobile device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication using mobile services carrier and with MTG and payment service . Although only one mobile device is shown a plurality of mobile devices may be utilized.

Mobile device includes one or more communication applications configured for creating transmitting and or receiving messages including for the establishment of a user account with payment service . The communication application may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments mobile device may include additional or different software as required.

Communication application s of the mobile device may correspond to an application enabling the establishment of a communication message. In this regard the communication application s may correspond to communication utilizing one or more of USSD messaging SMS messaging IVR an STK application and or a 2JME application. Thus the communication application s may provide an interface for the establishment transmission and or reception of an electronic message. In various embodiments the communication application may be configured to receive telecommunications from payment service to complete establishment and verification of an account. Thus mobile device may include processes operable to make and receive telephone calls over a radio link. Therefore the communication application s may enable a user to transmit a request to establish an account to payment service and receive messages enabling the establishment of the account as will be discussed in more detail herein.

Mobile services carrier includes Over The Air OTA server and gateways . OTA server and gateways may be configured to transmit and receive communications between MTG and mobile device using Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network . OTA server of mobile services carrier receives and transmits communications between any of gateways and mobile device . For example universal gateway provides communication between MTG and mobile device over an IVR or a J2ME application through OTA server . If mobile device uses USSD messaging USSD gateway communicates messages to and from MTG through OTA server . Similarly if mobile device accesses payment service using an STK application STK gateway communicates messages to and from MTG through OTA server . However where mobile device accesses payment service using SMS SMS gateway may communicate messages to and from MTG .

Depending on the communication path format used between mobile service carrier and mobile device MTG communicates with an appropriate gateway of mobile services carrier . As explained with respect to MTG includes the capability to use each one of the different communication techniques as appropriate. Moreover it is noted that the scope of embodiments is not limited to the list of communication techniques provided above. Thus any appropriate communication technique now known or later developed may be used with various embodiments.

Where mobile device communicates using USSD a user at mobile device initiates a transaction by formulating a message to a USSD address associated with payment service . The message traverses GSM network OTA server USSD gateway and is received by MTG over Internet . A USSD session is established and MTG analyzes the message for an identification of the user. If MTG can verify the user MTG then follows up with additional messages as appropriate and passes information to and from payment service to complete the transaction. In some examples a given USSD message to the user from MTG appears as a menu asking the user to select an option by keying in one or more characters and replying to the message. SMS examples may work in a similar way though SMS examples may be limited to one hundred forty characters per message making SMS slightly less convenient for menu type messages than USSD. In IVR embodiments and embodiments using STK and J2ME applications may also use menu type configurations though any organizational arrangement is within the scope of embodiments.

Workflow engine is the main operational program of MTG and provides many of the operations discussed with respect to the flowcharts of and menu screen shots of . Workflow engine includes business logic to implement the variety of use cases discussed with respect to and B. Among other things workflow engine includes logic to create messages to send to the user during a requested transaction to parse messages from the user and to communicate with payment service in order to perform the requested actions e.g. managing creating a cloud based wallet making a payment etc. . Thus workflow engine may be configured to act as an intermediary for communications between a user device and payment server using one or more communication protocols of a mobile device.

Database includes user information including user and or device identifiers e.g. to match a mobile device to one or more user accounts at payment service phone number history e.g. information about use history associated with a particular phone number or mobile device and transaction data e.g. information about specific past transactions . The workflow engine may consult database during the course of a transaction as appropriate. For example database may be utilized to determine a messaging protocol for a mobile device of a user based on the phone number history and or device identifier.

Fraud management corresponds to a component of MTG implementing fraud detection logic. For example for a given USSD session the following information may be determined by fraud management country and mobile network of the user cell identity within the mobile network a phone identifier IMEI that can be mapped to a handset model and a relation between current SIM and phone and if either of them have a history of having been connected to other devices. Other solutions implementing STK applications J2ME application IVR or SMS may gather other or different information. Fraud management can use such information along with username password and other appropriate information to detect suspicious behavior. If suspicious behavior is detected MTG may suspend or end the transaction or ask for more information. Workflow engine may consult with fraud management engine before establishing an account with payment service approving a money transfer and or completing an online transaction including bill payment and or phone services purchase. Additionally smart licentio may consult a certificate repository to identify trusted third parties when commanded to do so by workflow engine . Smart licentio may correspond to a service to access a certificate repository and provide mobile signature services to provide secure channel communications and to authenticate secure channel requests using a public key repository. Thus smart licentio may enable secure data communications using USSD IVR or other two way data communication channel through certificate repository .

APIs and are the API interfaces MTG and payment service respectively for communication between MTG and payment service . MTG communicates with payment service to complete a requested financial transaction. MTG may include some but not all of the logic used to authenticate a requested transaction and to determine whether a requested transaction should go forward. Payment service may include the same or similar logic and may be able independently to verify a transaction and or to determine whether a transaction should go forward. Furthermore during a transaction workflow engine may communicate to payment service via APIs and the identities of payer and payee an amount of transaction a selection of payment method and or other appropriate data.

Method of may be performed using SMS USSD IVR an application on the handset e.g. STK and or J2ME or any other appropriate technique. Method is used to establish a cloud based wallet for the user where the cloud based wallet is hosted by an e commerce service provider. In the example of method the e commerce service provider is indicated as PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA though other payment services and or service providers may be used in various embodiments.

At step a user receives an SMS message about a top up service offered by a payment service. The SMS message may be received by a user device from an MTG on behalf of the payment service. A top up service may correspond to a service to purchase rate plans corresponding to a mobile phone including adding minutes to an existing account purchasing further text messages and or purchasing additional data for a data plan. In other embodiments the user may receive a message corresponding to establishing an account with the payment service for other features including monetary transfers to other users and or payment of bills with the payment service. The user may request the message for example by soliciting the message through first transmitting a message to the payment service or may receive the message generally for example during unsolicited advertisements of the payment service or when a user s mobile phone services account reaches a minimum threshold of service. While the message is shown as an SMS message at step in other embodiments other communication protocols may be used.

The user then dials a USSD access number provided in the SMS message and receives an introduction from the payment service at step . The MTG provides communication between the mobile device and the payment service. The introduction may display features offered by the payment service and required information for account setup. Additionally in various embodiments the introduction may include a ToS or information required to access a ToS information that may be shared with other entities include a mobile services carrier and or other required information.

At step the MTG asks whether the user consents to sharing information with the payment service. The information shared with the payment service may be displayed to the user at step and or or may be implied based on the information requested during account set up. Additionally at step the MTG asks whether the mobile services carrier e.g. the mobile phone carrier may receive consent to share a name address and other identifier e.g. a CPF used in Brazil for identification and taxation purposes with the payment service. If the user declines then a friendly error may appear on the screen at step and operation may cease.

If the user consents to sharing of information from the mobile services carrier with the payment service then the payment service may have the MTG request consent to the payment services ToS Terms of Use ToU and or preapproval terms for any credit extension at step . As previously discussed ToS ToU and other necessary information may be presented to the user during the introduction at step at step or a source for the material may be provided e.g. a website address for a webpage displaying the ToS ToU preapproval terms . At step the user responds to the request for consent. Only if the user consents and agrees does method progress to step . Otherwise if the user declines the method may again cease at step .

At step the MTG displays a name confirmation screen and requests the user to confirm his or her name at step . If the name is incorrect and or cannot be confirmed the operation may request the user to contact the mobile services carrier astep . However if the name is correct and confirmed by the user at step an address confirmation screen may appear at step and the MTG may request confirmation of the address at step . Again if the user cannot confirm the address the user is directed to his or her mobile services carrier to correct his or her information at step . If the user confirms both name and address then method progresses to step . In various embodiments where the mobile services carrier passes information to the MTG the MTG may utilize the name and address passed to the MTG and skip steps and .

At step the MTG asks the user to enter a date of birth. If the user cannot confirm the entered date of birth is correct at step e.g. due to a misspelling or typographic error then the MTG may request the user reenter the birthdate at step and proceed back to step . In various embodiments where the mobile services carrier passes information to the MTG the MTG may display a date of birth for confirmation or may utilize the date of birth passed to the MTG and skip step and and proceed to step . If the date of birth is confirmed by the user at step the MTG prompts the user with the aid of a menu to choose an email web service and enter an email address at steps and . Once again the actions of are illustrated in the menus of as will be discussed in more detail with respect to .

In certain embodiments the user may not be requested to choose an email web service and enter an email address at steps and in which case would not include the displays related to providing an email address namely the middle three displays . In these embodiments after step the process goes directly to step in . Entering an email address can be time consuming and difficult with feature phones. Additionally due to time limits for completing an account creation the user may not have sufficient time to provide the requested information. Thus in these embodiments no email address email is needed from the user. Instead the payment service and or MTG may create an email for the user to be associated with the account to be created by using the phone number corresponding to the user phone. For example if the user phone number is 555 234 5678 the email address created may be 5552345678 serviceprovider.com or other email host name. The email host name can be specific to accounts created through feature phones or can be broader to include all payment accounts.

In another embodiment the email address is created using a combination of phone number country and mobile operator. For example an email address may be structured as phone number country operator paypal email2sms.com. Note that other identifiers can be used in various combinations and sequences with or without separators or spaces to create an email uniquely associated with the user and the user account. The email address may be presented at step and confirmation of receipt requested. If the user confirms the email address method may continue to .

Moving to is an exemplary method for completion of account creation using Interactive Voice Response IVR between a feature phone and a payment service according to one embodiment. The IVR functionality may be provided by MTG. At step the user receives a call from the payment service through the MTG and an introduction is provided to the user at step . The introduction may include a reminder that the user has consented to the TOU and also recites some account data such as user name address and or email address.

At step the payment service requests the user to enter a credit card number that is added to the user s cloud based wallet as a method of payment. Although step displays that only a credit card may be allowed in various embodiments the payment service may allow other financial information to be entered. For example the payment service may accept debit cards prepaid credit cards checking and or savings accounts or other financial source. However due to security constraints and or company policy the payment service may prefer or accept only desired financial accounts.

At the steps collectively labeled the MTG receives and validates the user s credit card information using the payment service and only proceeds forward upon receiving and entering valid credit card data. In order to validate the credit card information the user enters a credit card number where the MTG pay utilizes services of the payment service to determine if the credit card number is valid e.g. contains a proper number of digits for the credit card type . Should the credit card number be valid the MTG may request on behalf of the payment service an expiration date which may be verified again using the payment service. If the expiration date is a valid date and is not expired the MTG may request a card security number listed on the back of the card. Again the MTG may verify the authenticity of the card security number using the payment service. In various embodiments the MTG may also validate the credit card using services of the MTG and or may utilize the mobile services carrier to match a credit card number on file to the credit card number provided. Should the cards not match the MTG may request a new card and or may request additional information corresponding to the provided credit card number for security and theft protection reasons.

If the MTG receives a valid credit card expiration date and card security number the payment service may verify the credit card is also valid to be utilized with the payment service by checking to make sure the data entered is valid e.g. the card can be charged that sufficient funds are available with the bank and the card is not closed or frozen e.g. rejected by the bank and that the card is not already on file with another user. If the card is not valid to be used by the payment service the MTG may start over and request a new credit card to be entered. Alternatively additional information may be requested from the user to validate the card. In various embodiments where the mobile services carrier passes information to the MTG the MTG may repeat a credit card information passed to the MTG for confirmation or may utilize the credit card information received and proceed to the steps collectively labeled .

If the card is determined to be valid at the steps collectively labeled the user enters and re enters a Personal Identification Number PIN that is used in future transactions to verify the user. The payment service may request the user to enter a 4 8 digit PIN or any alphanumeric PIN. The MTG providing the IVR service on behalf of the payment service may receive a 4 8 digit PIN and confirm the PIN syntax is correct. The MTG may then request the user to re enter the PIN in order to confirm the user correctly knows the PIN. If the PIN syntax is incorrect or the user enters an incorrect PIN the second time the MTG may restart the process. However if the PIN s entered match and the user has successfully selected a PIN the MTG may complete the call for the payment service at step and transmit an SMS to the user. At step the user receives the SMS with a brief introduction and instructions for the user to access the cloud based wallet for future transactions.

If the user agrees to share information with the payment service the MTG may proceed to screen three the middle screen where the MTG requests consent to ToS ToU and or preapproval terms of the payment service. The third screen may correspond to steps and of and be transmitted during the USSD messaging session or using another messaging protocol. For example the user may instead send an SMS message to a specific number of the MTG and or with a specific message as an acceptance of the ToS ToU preapproval terms.

Once the user has accepted the payment service s terms the information shared with the payment service may be displayed to the user so the user may confirm the information is correct. Thus at the fourth screen to the right of the middle screen the MTG requests confirmation of the user s name. The fourth screen may correspond to steps and of . Further at the fifth screen the right most screen the user s address held by the mobile services carrier is displayed to the user and a confirmation of the address is requested. The fifth screen may correspond to steps and of . As previously discussed the fourth and fifth screens may be skipped where information is passed to the MTG and thus not presented to the user.

Moving to displays 5 screens corresponding to steps of . At the first screen the leftmost screen the user is requested to enter a date of birth. In various embodiments the mobile services carrier may also have the date of birth for the user and the MTG may request confirmation of a displayed date of birth instead. The first screen may correspond to steps and of . Again the first screen of may be skipped where information is passed to the MTG from the mobile services carrier.

In the middle 3 screens the user may be requested to enter an email address. The middle three screens may correspond to steps and respectively of . As previously discussed the user may not possess an email address or may find the processes of entering an email address difficult or time consuming. In other embodiments limitations on a time limit to establish the account may prevent the user from entering the email address. Thus in various embodiments the middle three screens may not be presented to the user. Instead an email address may be generated for the user. The email address may be generated based on user information including a phone number of the user. In other embodiments the email address may be randomly generated.

Regardless of the method of determining an email address at the fourth screen to the right of the middle screen an email address may be presented to the user and confirmation of the email address may be requested. If the user confirms the email address the messaging session ends at the fifth screen the right most screen and a call may be placed to the user. Thus after the fifth screen the user of the mobile device may receive a call using IVR with the MTG and completion of account set up may be completed as described with respect to .

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system such as a network server includes a bus component or other communication mechanisms for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD input component e.g. keyboard cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball and image capture component e.g. analog or digital camera . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise an array having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component and volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component . In one aspect data and information related to execution instructions may be transmitted to computer system via a transmission media such as in the form of acoustic or light waves including those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. In various implementations transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus .

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other non transitory medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. a communications network such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as computer program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein these labeled figures are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims

