---

title: Wound care compositions comprising borate (BO) glass-based particles
abstract: Glass-based angiogenic particles of a biocompatible material which comprises 40 to about 80 wt% borate (BO) intermixed into a carrier which is an ointment, cream, or surgical glue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486554&OS=09486554&RS=09486554
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 09486554
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 442 051 filed Apr. 9 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 535 710 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 683 244 filed Jan. 6 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 173 154 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Department of the Army contract W81XWH 08 1 7065. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to biocompatible dressings for care of open wounds such as lacerations diabetic ulcers bed sores and burns.

As noted in U.S. Pat. No. 7 638 484 i inflammation ii fibroblast proliferation iii blood vessel proliferation iv connective tissue synthesis v epithelialization and vi wound contraction are among the processes occurring during healing of open cutaneous. Various factors including malnutrition infection and pharmacological agents can affect the healing process.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 605 298 discloses a wound covering containing Ag Cu and or Zn as an antimicrobially active substance bonded to the surface of a matrix. The covering includes a first layer formed by an absorbent matrix and an antimicrobially active substance the substance being present chemically or physically bonded to one surface of the matrix. The surface of the matrix including the substance is coated with a hydrophilic polymer. The matrix contains fibers and can consist of a nonwoven material of gauze of a foam material or of another soft absorbent material. A foam material is stated to have the advantage that it can bind material discharging from the wound and thereby can be kept remote from the wound so that it does not interfere with the healing process. The matrix can contain at least one fiber or be formed from at least one fiber.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 536 discloses a wound dressing comprising a flexible base layer and an antimicrobial material wherein the antimicrobial material comprises an activated carbon carried noble metal. The activated carbon is selected from among an activated carbon powder an activated carbon particle and an activated carbon fiber. The noble metal is selected from the group consisting of silver gold palladium platinum copper and zinc.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 495 146 discloses a wound dressing employing silver compounds and copper compounds in particles suspended in a fluid soluble material to establish electrochemical potential adjacent a healing wound.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 977 428 discloses an absorbent dressing comprising a copper containing compound or complex as a micronutrient and a plurality of absorbent dried hydrogel particles sealed within a porous container wherein the porous container is non adherent to the wound. The absorbent hydrogel particles after absorbing the exudate remain sealed within the porous container.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 166 549 discloses grinding silicate glasses ribbons into antimicrobial anti inflammatory wound healing glass powders which may be added as a foodstuff supplement in cosmetic production antiperspirant production in medicinal products plastics and polymers sanitary paper dyes and lacquers as well as plaster and purification means.

Patent application publication WO 80 02378 discloses a carrier manufactured from an absorbable plastic ethylene vinyl acetate collagen or albumin material for promoting vascularization and endothelial activity in mammals. The carrier is in the form of a tube sheet thread or net and can for example be laid over skin ulcers.

There is a continuing need for new approaches for accelerating the processes associated with healing open wounds such as but not limited to lacerations diabetic ulcers bed sores and burns.

Briefly therefore the invention is directed to flexible dressing for wound care management comprising a three dimensional compressible body of loose glass based fibers wherein the fibers comprise one or more glass formers selected from the group consisting of PO SiO and BO at least about 25 wt of the fibers have a diameter between about 200 nm and about 4000 nm and a length width aspect ratio of at least about 10.

The invention is also directed to rigid dressing for wound care management comprising a three dimensional body of bonded glass based fibers wherein the fibers comprise one or more glass formers selected from the group consisting of PO SiO and BO and at least about 25 wt of the fibers have a diameter between about 200 nm and about 4000 nm and a length width aspect ratio of at least about 10.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a dressing for wound care management comprising a three dimensional compressible body of glass based biocompatible material comprising one or more glass formers selected from the group consisting of PO SiO and BO and one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material.

The invention is further directed to a biocompatible ointment or cream for wound care management comprising an ointment based carrier glass based particles of a biocompatible material intermixed in the ointment based carrier wherein the glass based particles comprise a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO and one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material.

The invention is also directed to a biocompatible surgical glue for closing a wound wherein the glue comprises an adhesive glass based particles of a biocompatible material intermixed in the adhesive wherein the glass based particles comprise a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO and one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material.

In a further embodiment the invention is a surgical suture for closing a wound wherein the suture comprises glass based fibers of a biocompatible material comprising a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO and one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material wherein the suture comprises an external polymeric coating.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a method for treating a wound comprising applying the dressings or ointment or cream to the wound or applying the glue to close the wound.

Other objects and features of the invention are in part apparent and in part pointed out hereinafter.

In accordance with this invention biocompatible and biodegradable glasses containing one or more glass formers selected from the group consisting of PO SiO and BOare employed for wound care management. The glasses take various forms including a flexible three dimensional compressible body of loose glass based fibers to be held in place in an open wound or to be employed as a layer applied over a wound. In another form the glasses are in the form of particles in an ointment or cream applied to a wound. In yet other forms the glasses are employed as fibers formed into sutures for closing a wound or as particles in a surgical glue for closing a wound.

In a first embodiment of the invention which is a three dimensional compressible body of loose glass based fibers such as depicted in the body comprises fibers having a diameter between about 200 nm 0.2 m microns and about 4000 nm 4 m . is an SEM image of such a body showing various fiber diameters at higher magnification. For example in one embodiment the fibers have a diameter between about 250 nm 0.25 m and about 3000 nm 3 m such as between about between about 300 nm 0.2 m and about 2000 nm 2 m . The especially small diameter of these fibers renders them highly flexible so they form into the compressible body without breaking. They have a texture like a cotton ball. In certain embodiments the body consists only of fibers meeting these dimensions while in other embodiments the body includes fibers meeting these dimensional requirements in addition to other glass morphologies such as fibers of other dimensions microspheres particles ribbons flakes or the like. The fibers are generally circular in cross section but they may be flattish or oval or have other shaped non circular cross section where cross section is the dimension transverse to the fiber s length. Diameter as used herein therefore refers not only to the diameter of a circular cross section but also to the largest transverse dimension of other non circular cross sections.

The number of fibers in the assembly is not narrowly critical to most embodiments and varies depending on the length of the fibers size of the dressing and other factors. For example in most embodiments there are hundreds or even thousands of fibers such as typically at least about 10 at least about 50 or at least about 200 fibers. The upper limit on the number of fibers is dictated by the size of the dressing and for some embodiments is less than about 50 000 while other embodiments contain more.

As shown in the body may also contain in addition to fine glass fibers microspheres or beads having a diameter of at least about 10 m such as between about 10 m and about 500 m for example between about 20 m and about 300 m. In addition to or instead of microspheres these components may be irregular or regular particles ribbons flakes hollow spheres or other shapes. While microspheres are preferred in some embodiments the shape is not narrowly critical in most embodiments and is to a large extent dictated more by the availability of materials than by other considerations.

The three dimensional body of glass fibers as a whole has a first state which is unstressed and relaxed when it is in an uncompressed condition such as shown in . The body also has a second state which is stressed when it is in a compressed condition which generally occurs when the body is shaped and applied to a wound. While the body as a whole is unstressed in its uncompressed condition the individual fibers are to some extent stressed when they are bent. In the relaxed state the body has a porosity which is at least about 30 by volume meaning that at least about 30 vol of the body is void space not occupied by glass material. For example in the relaxed state the body is between about 30 vol and about 90 vol porosity such as between about 40 vol and about 75 vol . The body may be applied to a wound in an uncompressed state or it may be compressed so that the porosity is between about 10 vol and about 75 vol such as between about 10 vol and about 50 vol . For example the body may have an uncompressed porosity of between about 40 vol and 75 vol and a compressed porosity of between about 10 vol and about 30 vol .

The initial surface area of the compressible body varies depending on morphology such as whether it is all fibers the fiber dimensions etc. Moreover the surface area per unit volume changes upon compression upon application to a wound and during biodegradation. Generally speaking a compressible body according to some embodiments of the invention has a surface area bulk body volume in the relaxed uncompressed state of the body of between about 1 and about 2000 cm such as between about 50 and about 500 cm.

In the embodiment shown in the fibers are randomly oriented in the body. In alternative embodiments the fibers may be woven as may be dictated either by the manner in which the body is formed or may be dictated by a particular application. For example in one embodiment the body is in the form of a woven layer which is applied over a wound similar in morphology to a woven cloth or gauze. The layer may be wrapped around the wound. This layer may constitute the entire dressing or it may be a component of a multi component dressing such as a multilayer dressing. Inasmuch as the layer may constitute the entire dressing the term layer herein is not strictly limited to a layer which is laid over or under another component of the dressing.

When in the form of a layer the body is also suitable for wrapping around or otherwise applying to an implant such as a hip implant or a bone repair implant. This assists in fixation of the implant in the body. Moreover the body of glass fibers in this application is suitable for delivering trace elements to the implant site by incorporating trace elements chemically dissolved in the glass material as described hereinbelow. In these applications where the glass body is a layer it is flexible. Randomly oriented as well as woven fibers may be employed in these embodiments.

The three dimensional body has a length width and thickness. In irregularly shaped embodiments such as shown in these dimensions refer to the largest or maximum dimensions in each of the x y and z directions. For example the particular embodiment shown in has a length of about 75 mm 3 inches as shown by the ruler a width of about 50 mm and a thickness of about 5 to 25 mm. Generally speaking the dimensions of the body are dictated by the size of the wounds for which it is applicable. The body therefore typically has an uncompressed length and width of at least about 10 mm such as between about 10 mm and about 250 mm for example between about 10 and about 150 mm between about 10 and about 50 mm or between about 50 and 200 mm. The body typically has an uncompressed thickness of at least about 2 mm such as between about 2 and about 100 mm or between about 5 and 30 mm. The body may be manufactured or supplied to the end users or intermediaries in much larger dimensions and cut to size by the end users or intermediaries.

In those embodiments where the body is in the form of a layer the thickness is generally much smaller for example less than 10 mm such as between about 1 mm and 10 mm. In one embodiment it is between about 1 and about 3 mm thick. The layer may be in the form of a square for example having a length and width between about 10 and about 300 mm or in the form of a rectangle having a width between about 10 and about 75 mm and a length between about 50 and about 250 mm. The layer may also be in the form of a roll having a width between about 10 and about 75 mm and a length greater than 25 mm. In some preferred embodiments where the body is a layer it has a length and a width which are between about 5 and about 30 times the thickness of the body.

In one embodiment the body is subjected to a bonding operation which at least lightly bonds the fibers and converts the body from a flexible body to a rigid body. This yields a rigid dressing for wound care management comprising a three dimensional body of bonded glass based fibers.

The invention in another aspect is a biocompatible ointment or cream for wound care management. This embodiment employs any ointment based or cream based carrier which one skilled in the art determines is suitable for treatment of the particular wound. Glass based particles of a biocompatible material are intermixed in the ointment based or cream based carrier. The glass based particles comprise a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO. The glass based particles further comprise one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material.

The invention in another embodiment is a biocompatible surgical glue for closing a wound. The glue comprises an adhesive which one skilled in the art determines is suitable for treatment of the particular wound. The glue also contains particles of a biocompatible material intermixed in the adhesive wherein the glass based particles comprise a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO. The particles also contain one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material. The particle size for glass based particles in the ointment cream or glue is between about 1 and about 300 m such as between about 3 and about 50 m. In the context of the glue ointment and cream the term particles includes fibers.

Another embodiment is a surgical suture for closing a wound wherein the suture comprises glass based fibers of a biocompatible material comprising a glass former selected from the group consisting of PO SiO BO. The glass based fibers further comprise one or more trace elements selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt per trace element chemically dissolved in the biocompatible material. The suture preferably has an external polymeric coating.

In connection with each of the foregoing embodiments a trace element such as Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn and in some particularly preferred embodiments Ag Cu Sr Zn and or Fe is preferably incorporated into the glass. Silver has infection fighting properties. These other elements have an effect on endothelial cell migration which can be useful for blood vessel formation and have importance for tissue regeneration. In this way these trace elements promote angiogenesis which is a critical function in promoting tissue growth such as in wound healing. This is in distinction from promoting osteoconductivity which refers to providing bone growth factors to a site to promote bone growth. Angiogenesis which involves increasing vascularity i.e. vessel growth is distinct from osteoconductivity.

In those instances when the one or more trace elements are employed they are incorporated into the glass in a concentration of at least about 0.05 wt or at least about 0.1 wt . In most instances the concentration is less than 10 wt or less than 5 wt such as between about 0.05 and about 5 wt for example between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt per element . Where the biocompatible glass material is borate based or phosphate based the trace element concentration is less than 5 wt and it may be higher and up to 10 wt where the biocompatible material is silicate based. The trace elements are selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn. In certain preferred embodiments the trace element is one or more selected from the group consisting of Ag Cu Fe Sr and Zn. More than one of these trace elements can be employed in a single composition. Also certain of these elements may be present in greater amounts in that they are not being used as trace elements in accordance with this invention. For example a glass which contains 0.4 wt Cu and 15 wt Sr contains Cu as a trace element in accordance with this invention and it contains Sr but not as a trace element in accordance with this invention. Such a material would indeed satisfy the requirement herein for a trace element from the group Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Ni Sr and Zn in a concentration between about 0.05 and 10 wt by virtue of the material s Cu content regardless of its unqualifying Sr content.

Where Cu is desired the source of Cu to the glass may be a copper oxide such as CuO or CuO or other copper compounds such as copper nitrate or copper sulfate for example. In one embodiment Cu is incorporated in a concentration of between about 0.05 and about 5 wt about 0.06 6 wt CuO about 0.055 5.5 wt CuO such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt about 0.12 3 wt CuO about 0.11 3 wt CuO . There are preferred embodiments employing from about 1 wt to about 2 wt Cu as provided by between about 1.2 wt and about 2.4 wt CuO.

Where Sr is desired the source of Sr to the glass may be an oxide such as SrO or other Sr compounds such as SrCO for example. In one embodiment Sr is incorporated in a concentration of between about 0.05 and about 5 wt about 0.06 to 5.90 wt SrO such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt about 0.12 to 2.95 wt SrO . There are preferred embodiments employing from about 1 wt to about 2 wt Sr as provided by between about 1.18 wt and about 2.36 wt SrO.

Where Zn is desired the source of Zn to the glass may be an oxide such as ZnO or other Zn compounds such as Zn PO xHO for example. In one embodiment Zn is incorporated into the glass in a concentration of between about 0.05 and about 5 wt about 0.06 to 6.0 wt ZnO such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt about 0.12 to 3.0 wt ZnO . There are preferred embodiments employing from about 1 wt to about 2 wt Zn as provided by between about 1.20 wt and about 2.40 wt ZnO.

Where Fe is desired the source of Fe to the glass may be an oxide such as FeO FeO FeO or other Fe compounds such as FeSO.7HO for example. In one embodiment Fe is incorporated into the glass in a concentration of between about 0.05 and about 5 wt about 0.06 to 6.45 wt FeO such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt about 0.13 to 3.23 wt FeO . There are preferred embodiments employing from about 1 wt to about 2 wt Fe as provided by between about 1.29 wt and about 2.58 wt FeO.

Where Ag is desired the source of Ag to the glass may be AgNOor AgPO for example. In one embodiment Ag is incorporated in a concentration of between about 0.05 and about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt .

The glass formers in certain embodiments of the invention are concentration balanced to impart the desired biodegradability. For example in one embodiment the concentrations of the glass formers borate silicate and phosphate are balanced to 52.95 wt 0 wt and 4.0 wt respectively with respect to themselves and with respect to the other components in the material NaO CaO and KO. Balancing in this regard encompasses balancing the concentration of one glass former with other components such as with those glasses which contain borate and other components but no phosphate or silicate.

In many preferred embodiments the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 20 wt of the glass biodegrades within two weeks of application to a wound. For example the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 20 wt of the glass biodegrades within two weeks of application to a surface wound of a Fisher 344 rat having an age between 9 and 11 weeks and a weight between 200 and 300 grams. In accord with this measure the testing is performed on rats with a standard deviation of 25 relative of the biocompatible material and a population size of 10. In other words when 10 of these bodies ointments creams glues or sutures are applied to rat wounds on average at least 20 wt of the glass biodegrades within two weeks and in at least 68 of rats at least 15 wt of the glass biodegrades and in at least 90 of rats at least 10 wt of the glass degrades. Application for this and the following standards is according to the protocol described below in Example 1. Biodegrading in most instances manifests itself as weight loss but can also manifest itself as another reaction of the material.

Similarly in another aspect the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 20 wt of the trace element concentration in the bodies ointments creams glues or sutures is released into the host within two weeks of application to its mammalian host. For example the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 20 wt of the trace element concentration is released into the host within two weeks of application to a Fisher 344 rat having an age between 9 and 11 weeks and a weight between 200 and 300 grams. In accord with this measure the testing is performed on rats with a standard deviation of 25 relative of the biocompatible material and a population size of 10. In other words when 10 of bodies ointments creams glues or sutures are applied to rat wounds on average at least 20 wt of the trace element concentration is released within two weeks and in at least 68 of rats at least 15 wt of the trace element concentration is released and in at least 90 of rats at least 10 wt of the trace element concentration is released.

On the other hand the glass in most embodiments does not biodegrade so quickly upon application to the host that it fails to provide trace elements over a long enough period to adequately promote angiogenesis. For example at least 30 wt of the material remains for at least two weeks and does not biodegrade within two weeks. That is the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 30 wt of the biocompatible glass material remains in the bodies ointments creams glues or sutures for at least two weeks after application to a Fisher 344 rat having an age between 9 and 11 weeks and a weight between 200 and 300 grams. In accord with this measure the testing is performed on rats with a standard deviation of 25 relative of the glass and a population size of 10. In other words when 10 of these bodies ointments creams glues or sutures are applied to rat wounds on average at least 30 wt of the glass does not biodegrade within two weeks and in at least 68 of rats at least 22.5 wt of the glass does not biodegrade within two weeks and in at least 90 of rats at least 15 wt of the glass does not biodegrade within two weeks.

Moreover in these embodiments at least 30 wt of the trace element concentration remains in the bodies ointments creams glues or sutures for at least two weeks. That is the concentrations of glass formers are balanced such that at least about 30 wt of the trace element remains for at least two weeks after application to a Fisher 344 rat having an age between 9 and 11 weeks and a weight between 200 and 300 grams. In accord with this measure the testing is performed on rats with a standard deviation of 25 relative of the biocompatible body material and a population size of 10. In other words when 10 of these bodies ointments creams glues or sutures are applied to rat wounds on average at least 50 wt of the trace element concentration remains for at least two weeks and in at least 68 of rats at least 22.5 wt of the trace element concentration remains in the bodies ointments creams glues or sutures for at least two weeks and in at least 90 of rats at least 15 wt of the trace element concentration remains for at least two weeks.

In one embodiment of the invention the glass releases the trace element at particular rate of release of trace element per gram of glass per day in a mammalian host. The release rate can in effect be dialed in by determining the desired amount of trace element to be released within the host and then selecting a biocompatible composition or combination of compositions to achieve this rate. As noted above the glass formers are concentration balanced to impart the desired biodegradability. In a related aspect the surface area per unit volume can be controlled to control release rate as greater surface area increases reactivity and therefore release rate. One skilled in the art appreciates that the rate of biodegradation of the glass is different from host to host from glass to glass from trace element to trace element and otherwise depends on a number of factors. For example a more physically active host with a faster average heart rate may encourage biodegradation and therefore trace element release at a faster rate. In one embodiment the composition has a trace element release Cu rate of between about 0.5 and about 100 E 7 moles of trace element per gram of glass per day for example between about 1 and about 25 E 7 moles of trace element per gram of glass per day such as between about 1 and about 20 E 7 moles of trace element per gram of glass per day or between about 3 and about 12 E 7 moles of trace element per gram of glass per day.

As noted above the glass inventive bodies and other forms biodegrades or reacts when in contact with physiological fluids. However in comparison to articles characterized as water soluble which dissolve relatively rapidly over a period of e.g. 24 hours or less in aqueous solutions the biocompatible materials of the invention are not readily soluble in water or aqueous liquids such as physiological liquids that is they slowly react with aqueous liquids over a periods of several days to weeks for the fine fibers and generally weeks to months for the microspheres and larger diameter particles. As understood in the art materials which are water soluble are subject to relatively rapid solubility and materials which are water insoluble are either entirely insoluble in water or are at least only dissolvable with difficulty. Generally speaking the glass employed in the embodiments of this invention are not water insoluble and are not water soluble under this characterization rather they are of intermediate water solubility.

The glass material of the bodies ointments creams glues or sutures is biocompatible in that it is not toxic or otherwise harmful to its host s living tissue. Some of the preferred compositions Ca free of the invention are also not bioactive in the sense that hydroxyapatite does not form. That is they lack bioactivity where bioactivity refers to a material s capacity in phosphorus containing mammalian fluids to foster growth of a calcium phosphate layer or convert to bone precursor calcium phosphate compounds which in turn promotes bone bonding to the material.

In one embodiment the glass employed is a borate based glass material containing the following approximately with all percentages herein being by weight unless stated otherwise 

In most embodiments the compressible body or glass particles consist only or essentially of components meeting these compositional requirements or other narrower descriptions herein. But generally speaking for some embodiments other materials not meeting these descriptions may be incorporated.

Additional borate based materials within this description into which Ag Cu or other stated trace element may be incorporated according to this invention contain by weight the following keeping in mind that one or more of the other trace elements may be included in addition to Cu in analogous concentrations or instead of Cu.

It can therefore be appreciated that in addition to the Cu and or in addition to Ag Cu F Fe Mn Mo Sr and or Zn the borate based biocompatible glass materials include 40 to 80 wt BOor 50 to 80 wt BO or even the narrower BOranges described herein in combination with 1 to 25 wt NaO 1 to 25 KO 1 to 40 wt CaO 1 to 25 wt MgO and 1 to 10 wt PO. Or the component materials may contain 40 to 80 wt BO 1 to 25 wt LiO and 1 to 40 wt CaO. Or they may contain 40 to 80 wt BO 1 to 25 wt NaO and 1 to 40 wt CaO. Or they may contain 40 to 80 wt BO 1 to 25 wt NaO and 1 to 40 wt BaO. Or they may contain 40 to 80 wt BO 1 to 25 wt LiO and 1 to 25 wt MgO. Or they may contain 40 to 80 wt BO 1 to 25 wt LiO and 1 to 40 wt BaO. While the biocompatible materials hereinabove and hereinbelow are described as containing various oxides by weight those skilled in the art understand that in the final glass or glass crystalline composition the oxide compounds are dissociated and the specific oxides e.g. BO SiO PO etc. are not separately identifiable or even necessarily separately present. Nonetheless it is conventional in the art to refer to the final composition as containing a given of the individual oxides so that is done here. So from this perspective the compositions herein are on an equivalent basis.

The biocompatible glass employed in the invention containing the trace element in certain preferred versions are borate based in that they contain between about 40 and about 80 wt BO such as between about 50 and about 80 wt BO. Borate based materials have several important advantages for biological use such as their ease of preparation ability to be made into glass particulates microspheres or fibers at relatively low temperatures without crystallization and particularly their biocompatibility. The borate based materials disclosed herein compared to silicate based materials have significantly faster reaction rates lower melting temperatures resistance to crystallization and in certain instances the absence of silica which only slowly degrades in the body. So while certain embodiments employ up to about 18 wt SiOin many other preferred embodiments herein the materials are silicate free containing less than 0.1 wt silicate or even no silicate. Borate glass fibers often form hollow fibers upon reaction in vivo while silicate glasses do not and they facilitate angiogenesis in vivo. The borate materials described herein also release boron in vivo as they react with the body fluids.

There is one embodiment which has specific preference in certain applications and wherein the concentration of Ca elemental or in CaO or other compounds in the glass is controlled to less than about 5 wt . Certain preferred embodiments strictly control the Ca concentration to less than about 0.5 wt such as to less than 0.2 wt and even to less than 0.1 wt . The advantage in this embodiment to strictly controlling Ca concentration is the avoidance of the formation of calcium phosphate compounds apatite type compounds and related amorphous calcium phosphate ACP upon exposure to physiological phosphorus containing fluids. Such apatite compounds include hydroxyapatite Ca PO OH fluoroapatite Ca PO F amorphous calcium phosphate ACP and other calcium containing compounds. Thus in certain applications it is advantageous to avoid the formation of Ca apatite compounds because they have a relatively lower radiopacity than do for example analogous Sr or Ba compounds. In certain situations it is advantageous to avoid Ca apatite compounds in order to form compounds which degrade more rapidly or perhaps even more slowly. It can also be advantageous to avoid Ca for purposes of controlling melt characteristics such as viscosity melting temperature and or crystallization tendency. The Ca free compositions lack bioactivity where bioactivity refers to a material s capacity in phosphorus containing mammalian fluids to foster growth of a calcium phosphate layer or convert to bone precursor calcium phosphate compounds.

The biocompatible Ca free material employed for certain embodiments preferably contains between about 40 and about 90 wt BOwith the remainder being selected from alkali oxides and alkaline earth oxides and other optional constituents listed below. For example this material contains by weight 

In one preferred embodiment the glass contains between about 50 and about 80 wt BO between about 5 and about 20 wt alkali oxide component selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO RbO and combinations thereof and between about 5 and about 40 alkaline earth component selected from the group consisting of MgO SrO BaO and combinations thereof. Optional components include PO SiO AlO F and transition metal elements. Lanthanides are specifically and strictly excluded from certain preferred embodiments. In some embodiments the biocompatible material consists essentially of between about 50 and about 80 wt BO between about 5 and about 20 wt alkali oxide component selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO RbO and combinations thereof between about 5 and about 40 wt alkaline earth component selected from the group consisting of MgO SrO BaO and combinations thereof and between about 0.05 and 5 wt Cu as CuO CuO or other Cu compound

Exemplary borate based Ca free materials into which Cu may be incorporated according to this invention contain by weight the following keeping in mind that one or more of the other trace elements may be included in addition to Cu in analogous concentrations or instead of Cu 

In certain embodiments of the invention the glass is selected to include at least two of the alkali oxides LiO NaO KO and or RbO in a cumulative concentration of between about 5 and about 25 wt such as between about 8 and 20 wt . It has been discovered to be advantageous to include two or more such alkali compounds in order to reduce the tendency for crystallization which ultimately improves the workability and manufacturability of the glasses. Using more than one type of alkali i.e. mixed alkali can reduce the cost of a glass modify its reaction rate with body fluids and provide additional elements beneficial to tissue growth and regeneration.

A further feature of certain embodiments is that the cumulative concentration of the alkaline earth oxides from the group consisting of MgO SrO BaO CaO and combinations thereof is in the range of 1 to about 50 wt such as in the range of 1 to 30 wt or even about 8 to 25 wt . Certain of these embodiments contain two or more such alkaline earth oxides in a range of 1 to 45 wt cumulatively such as in the range of 5 to 25 wt . If SrO is present in a concentration which yields a Sr concentration above 10 wt it does not qualify as a trace element in accordance with this description.

These embodiments into which Cu and or other trace element may be incorporated and which employ mixed alkali oxide contents contain BOfrom about 40 to about 80 wt . Certain of these embodiments consist essentially of BOfrom about 40 to about 80 wt mixed alkali oxides selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO and RbO and one of MgO SrO BaO or CaO plus the Cu or other trace element compound. Other embodiments consist essentially of BOfrom about 40 to about 80 wt two or more alkali oxides selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO and RbO and two or more alkaline earth oxides from the group consisting of MgO SrO BaO and CaO plus the Cu or other trace element compound. For example composition A in Table 2 consists essentially of BOfrom about 40 to about 80 wt two or more mixed alkali oxides selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO and RbO in a cumulative wt between 5 and 25 and two or more from among MgO SrO BaO and CaO in a cumulative wt between 8 and 25 . Other embodiments optionally include one or more of PO SiO AlO F and transition metal elements.

The invention includes using fibers or particles from biocompatible glass materials with an especially high BOcomposition namely from about 60 to about 82 wt preferably from about 70 to about 80 wt . These embodiments employ an alkali oxide selected from the group consisting of LiO NaO KO RbO and combinations thereof cumulatively from about 1 to about 50 wt such as from about 5 to about 25 wt and even from about 8 to about 20 wt and even optionally two or more such oxides cumulatively in this range. They also optionally employ alkaline earth oxides from group consisting of MgO SrO BaO CaO and combinations thereof in the range of about 1 to about 50 wt such as in the range of 1 to 30 wt or even about 8 to 25 wt and even two or more such oxides cumulatively in this range. Certain of these embodiments consist essentially of these components such as compositions II III IV and VII in Table 3 while other embodiments optionally include one or more of PO SiO AlO F and transition metal elements.

In the foregoing described mixed alkali and high borate embodiments the Ca concentration may be strictly controlled to less than about 5 wt including to less than 0.5 wt such as to less than 0.2 wt or less than 0.1 wt to avoid the formation of Ca compounds in the manner discussed above. Alternatively there are embodiments containing two or more alkali oxides which also contain CaO in an amount up to about 40 wt to facilitate the formation of hydroxyapatite other calcium phosphate compounds or amorphous calcium phosphate.

Some exemplary materials of the invention contain approximately 40 to 80 wt BO 0.05 to 5 CuO and NaO KO MgO and PO. More specific examples contain or even consist essentially of 40 to 90 wt BO 0.1 to 5 CuO 1 to 25 wt NaO 1 to 25 wt KO 1 to 25 wt MgO and 1 to 10 wt PO.

The invention in other embodiments employs glasses formed from a phosphate based or silicate based material which is at least partially dissolvable in mammalian bodily fluids and Cu or other trace element is optionally incorporated into the biocompatible material in a concentration as described above. In these embodiments POand or SiOare glass formers and constitute about 20 to about 65 wt POor about 20 to about 60 wt SiO. These materials also contain an alkali metal oxide component of for example one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 8 wt to about 55 wt such as about 10 to about 52 wt . Many of these phosphate and silicate based glasses also contain a calcium component one of CaO CaF or mixtures thereof. For example many of these glasses contain from about 5 to about 40 wt of CaO or CaF or mixtures thereof such as about 10 to about 30 wt of CaO or CaF or mixtures thereof or about 10 to about 15 wt of CaO or CaF or mixtures thereof. Accordingly one of these embodiments contains about 20 to about 65 wt PO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 8 wt to about 55 wt and a calcium component in a concentration of about 5 to about 40 wt of CaO or CaF and optionally Cu in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 . Another embodiment contains about 20 to about 65 wt PO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 10 wt to about 52 wt a calcium component of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof in a concentration of about 5 wt to about 40 wt of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof and Cu or other trace element in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 . Another embodiment contains about 20 to about 65 wt PO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 8 wt to about 55 wt a calcium component of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof in a concentration of about 10 to about 30 wt of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof and Cu or other trace element in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 . Another of these embodiments contains about 20 to about 60 wt SiO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 8 wt to about 55 wt a calcium component of CaO in a concentration of about 5 to about 40 wt of CaO or CaF and Cu or other trace element in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt . Another embodiment contains about 20 to about 60 wt SiO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 10 wt to about 52 wt a calcium component of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof in a concentration of about 5 wt to about 40 wt of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof and optionally Cu or other trace element in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt . Another embodiment contains about 20 to about 60 wt SiO and one or more of LiO NaO KO RbO CsO or a mixture thereof in a concentration of about 8 wt to about 55 wt a calcium component of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof in a concentration of about 10 to about 30 wt of CaO or CaFor mixtures thereof and optionally Cu or other trace element in a concentration of about 0.05 to about 5 wt such as between about 0.1 and about 2.5 wt . In certain of these embodiments CaFis strictly avoided and the calcium component is CaO.

Examples of silicate based glasses containing Cu and other trace elements useful in this invention are as follows 

Examples of phosphate based biocompatible glass containing Cu or other trace element and useful in this invention are shown in Table 5.

These phosphate based formulations demonstrate situations where it is advantageous to include at least two of the alkali oxides LiO NaO KO and or RbO in a cumulative concentration of between about 5 and about 25 wt such as between about 8 and 20 wt . As noted above it has been discovered to be advantageous to include two or more such alkali compounds in order to reduce the tendency for crystallization which ultimately improves the workability and manufacturability of the glasses which can be important to making fibers. Using more than one type of alkali i.e. mixed alkali can reduce the cost of a glass modify its reaction rate with body fluids and provide additional elements beneficial to tissue growth and regeneration.

A further feature of these phosphate based embodiments is that the cumulative concentration of the alkaline earth oxides from the group consisting of MgO SrO BaO CaO and combinations thereof is in the range of 1 to about 50 wt such as in the range of 1 to 30 wt or even about 8 to 25 wt . Certain of these embodiments contain two or more such alkaline earth oxides in a range of 1 to 45 wt cumulatively such as in the range of 5 to 25 wt .

There is also an option with this invention of employing distinct component compositions to strategically impart certain properties. For example the compressible body ointment cream glue or suture in some embodiments employs 10 to 90 wt of components having one composition selected from the above and 10 to 90 wt of components of a different composition. Or even more than two such types of components may be employed. That is the material may contain at least 10 wt of components comprising a first component material within the contemplated compositions and at least 10 wt of components comprising a second component material wherein the first and second component materials have compositions distinct from each other. And it is contemplated that only the first component material may contain Cu and or other trace element. This permits the selection of for example faster reacting fibers or particles in combination with slower reacting fibers or particles or the selection of Ca containing fibers or particles with Ca free fibers or particles. One can therefore select standard composition components and combine them with non standard composition components to effectively customize or dope the overall composition for the application presented or for the host s particular needs. Alternatively hollow spheres containing a growth factor or drug for delivery to the host can be incorporated with the compressible body ointment cream glue or suture.

The method of making the glass is not narrowly critical to the invention. By way of example in preparing the glass individual analytical reagent grade components are weighed mixed thoroughly and melted in a platinum crucible at temperatures ranging from 900 to 1500 C. for approximately one to four hours. The melt is then quenched for example on a steel or copper plate to form glass that can be ground into particulates of a desired size. The material of preferred compositions when in the form of a melt can easily be formed into fibers or particles. Fibers can either be pulled by hand directly from the melt or pulled through bushing by a rotating drum.

The biocompatible material may be glassy glass ceramic or ceramic in nature. However the glassy state is preferred in this invention because generally speaking glassy materials are stronger and more chemically homogeneous than their crystalline or partially crystalline counterparts of the same composition. In this description the term glass is used to include materials which are entirely glassy as well as materials which are part glassy and part crystalline. It is therefore preferable that the biocompatible material is substantially glass in that less than about 5 wt more preferable less than 1 wt of the component material is crystalline material. The glass used in many embodiments of the invention consistent with the foregoing description are at least 99 wt an amorphous or non crystalline solid for example made by fusing a mixture of oxides such as one or more of SiO BO PO known as glass forming oxides with basic oxides such as the alkali and alkaline earth oxides along with the optional one or more trace element compounds such as Cu compounds. In an alternative embodiment the fibers or particles include glass ceramics fibers that contain both glassy and crystalline regions which in many respects function in the same manner as a fiber that is completely 100 non crystalline. The fibers or particles may alternatively be pre reacted biocompatible glasses such as glass fibers or particles pre reacted to have a thin surface layer of hydroxyapatite.

The dressing comprising a compressible body of loose glass based fibers of was prepared from glass of composition 53 wt BO 20 wt CaO 12 wt KO 6 wt NaO 5 wt MgO 4 wt PO. As shown in there were some residual beads microspheres of that are formed as part of the process for forming fibers. The diameter of the fibers ranged from of about 300 nm to about 2000 nm as shown in . The microspheres were much larger in diameter and ranged from approximately 20 microns to about 300 microns as shown in .

The compressible body of was used in an experiment to fill a cutaneous defect in a rat. It was shaped by hand to form a disk about 15 mm in diameter and about 2 mm thick. This cylinder was placed in a wound as shown in . The rats were Fisher 344 rats having an age between 9 and 11 weeks and a weight between 200 and 300 grams. Prior to implantation the dressings were washed twice with ethyl alcohol and heat sterilized at 250 C. for 2.5 hours in a small box furnace. For application the back of the rat was shaved sterilized with iodine and washed with 70 ethanol. Each rat was anesthesized with a mixture of isofluorine and medical grade oxygen. After application of the dressing 0.1 mL of Penicillin G Procaine was injected into each thigh of the rat to prevent infection. The rats were placed on a heating pad in a cage with fresh air during recovery.

The area of each wound was measured periodically and the average area for each control and wound covered with dressing was calculated and plotted vs. time. The graph in shows there was little difference between the closure of the control wound and the dressing covered wound. However the dressing covered wound had a barrier protecting it from its surroundings and while possibly slowing the wound closure initially the barrier likely helped keep out harmful pathogens.

After 22 days the animals were sacrificed and the wounds and surrounding tissue was recovered from each animal for histological analysis. is a representative histological section from the wound covered with dressing. The glass fibers were either dissolved in the body fluids or removed as the scab peeled away as they were not visible in these photos. Glass microspheres that had reacted in the animal that were left behind from the dressing are shown in . However the microspheres seen in did act as an indicator of where the fibers were prior to wound closure. The wound dimensions were approximated by the presence of reacted microspheres left behind in the wound. The approximate original wound size 1 cm in diameter has been labeled in and significant healing is evident.

From the histological images present in the tissue that was generated in the presence of the dressing appears similar to the surrounding natural tissue. After 22 days the dermal and epidermal layers were completely healed and the subcutaneous tissue shown in had almost completely healed as the unhealed section of subcutaneous tissue is indicated by the short horizontal arrow between the two vertical dotted lines in . shows the subcutaneous tissue that is not completely healed along with some reacted glass bead. There are no visible areas of dead or unhealthy looking tissue and hair along with fat deposits are present in the regrown tissue similar to the adjacent recovered tissue as shown in .

In view of the above it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiments s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

As various changes could be made in the above compositions and methods without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

