---

title: Self surveying portable sensor nodes
abstract: A self-surveying range includes a base station and a plurality of nodes. Each node has a transmitter, a receiver and a processor and is capable of transmitting a signal encoded with a node identifier, the transmission time. The node can also receive transmitted signals from other nodes. The base station also has a transmitter, a receiver and a processor. The base station is capable of determining its location, transmitting an encoded signal with the transmission time and receiving transmitted signals from said plurality of nodes at a definite time. The base station processor can determine the location of each node from the base station location, the node transmission time and the definite reception time. There is further provided a method for establishing a self-surveying range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100317&OS=09100317&RS=09100317
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09100317
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and the invention herein may be manufactured practiced used and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Acoustic underwater ranges often use a pinger based system for localization and tracking. This system involves an acoustic device being tracked that sends out a regular encoded acoustic signal known as a ping that can be received by hydrophones positioned at known locations. Incoming acoustic energy from a ping is received by the hydrophones and transmitted to digital signal processing nodes. These processors turn raw acoustic data into time tagged detection report information. This detection report includes the ping s encoded frequency ping encoding type ping index time of arrival of each ping and the receiving hydrophone. Other information can also be included. A tracking software system receives all the detection reports relevant to a particular target over all the hydrophones on the range. Using the known position of those hydrophones the environmental data and iterative numerical algorithms the software produces a candidate location and time of emission for the received ping.

Some surveying systems employ a marine vehicle with transponders to send out signals and detect echoes as it passes by objects in the water. Portable ranges are known that are self contained training systems embedded with bottom mounted transponders. These portable ranges include multiple bottom mounted transponders and a surface link to a support vessel and the necessary shipboard systems. A basic portable range operational configuration consists of an array of seven bottom moored transponders and a range support vessel having a shipboard processing unit and a satellite link to a shore based remote display center. The bottom moored transponders must be emplaced at known locations. The transponders detect tracking signals emitted from the exercise participants and transmit data via an acoustic data uplink. The transmission can be received by a dunking head hydrophone suspended from the range support vessel. The shipboard processing unit processes the data and generates a detection report in a format compatible with the tracking software. The shipboard processing unit can also control and monitor the status of the transponders through acoustic commands.

The above mentioned methods of establishing a range incur high logistical costs and time because of the requirement that the bottom mounted transducers be emplaced at known locations. Therefore there is a need for an underwater range having self surveying portable sensor nodes and a base unit that can determine their locations with minimal outside support.

A first object of is to provide a portable underwater acoustic range that can configure itself with minimal outside interaction 

A second object is to provide a portable range that has sensor nodes that can be deployed without exact locational positioning.

Accordingly there is provided a portable acoustic range that includes a base station and a plurality of nodes. Each node has a transmitter a receiver and a processor and is capable of transmitting a signal encoded with a node identifier the transmission time and receiving transmitted signals from other nodes. The base station also has a transmitter a receiver and a processor. The base station is capable of determining its location transmitting an encoded signal with the transmission time and receiving transmitted signals from said plurality of nodes at a definite time. The base station processor can determine the location of each node from the base station location the node transmission time and the definite reception time.

There is also provided a method for providing a self surveying range that includes deploying a plurality of nodes and a base station. The base station and each of the nodes is capable of transmitting and receiving a signal. The location of the base station is obtained and times are synchronized among the deployed nodes. A signal is transmitted by each node having a transmission time and a node identifier. The transmitted signals are received by all of the other nodes and the base station. Distances between the nodes are calculated and node geometry is determined. Ranges between the base station and each of the nodes is further calculated. The base station ranges and the base station location is used to calculate the node locations. In further embodiments the node location calculations can be refined by dropping distance measurements having the largest apparent error.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention.

The base station processor A can be configured to calculate a location of each of the sensor nodes and based on distances between each of the sensor nodes and and each other and also based on distances between each of the sensor nodes and the base station . The distances between each two nodes are calculated based on the transmit time and detection time of a sonar signal from one of the sensor nodes and to another node. The distances between the base station and sensor nodes and can also be calculated in this manner.

Step includes calculating distances of the sensor nodes and from each other. Step includes computing distances between sensor nodes and the base station . These calculations can be made utilizing a predetermined sound velocity in the relevant acoustic medium. In some environments such as in bodies of water a sound velocity profile SVP of the acoustic environment is preferably obtained to insure accurate distance calculation. This can be performed in step while the sensor nodes are being deployed. As each sensor node is deployed from the surface it will travel through the layers of the acoustic environment. For this purpose the sensor node can have instruments such as D capable of measuring related parameters such as temperature pressure and salinity. This information can be provided by the node transmitter to the base station where it can be converted into a sound velocity profile. In steps and distances between the nodes and between the nodes and the base station are preferably stored in a database joined to base station .

In step a computer processor such as A performs a base level array geometry calculation based on the distances stored in the database. This is an inverse tracking problem in which it is desired to solve for spatial relationships among the nodes and range orientation utilizing the distances between the nodes. The spatial relationship is modeled using a three dimensional spherical tracking algorithm. Basic assumptions are made about range geometry from known facts. For example in an underwater range the base station will usually be positioned at a shallower depth than the nodes. There may be cables or other structures joined to the nodes that will constrain their positions. Often it is known whether the bottom is flat sloped or irregular and these constraints can be used to give a probable range geometry. With flat bottom geometry a two dimensional range model will greatly simplify coordinate determination.

A standard three dimensional spherical tracking algorithm utilizes the transmitting node as the unknown location. Three additional receiving nodes can be used to calculate the relative position of the transmitting node. This calculation is performed by establishing spherical equations with the distance from the transmitting node to the receiving node being the radius of the sphere. The intersection of the spherical equations for three non collinear nodes will give the relative coordinates of the transmitting node. The process can be iterated using each node as the transmitting node and three nodes as the receiving nodes. Preferably the three receiving nodes are the nodes nearest the transmitting node. Other data can be used to establish a probable configuration. Other spherical tracking algorithms can be used to determine these coordinates such as the iterative Newton spherical tracking algorithm. In any case use of these algorithms gives basic relative coordinates for each node of the sensor array.

In step a gradient search algorithm is used to refine and adjust the calculated distances between the sensor nodes and and between the sensor nodes and and the base station . The gradient search algorithm uses distance measurements that may exist in addition to the three receiving nodes used in the base level array geometry calculation and the gradient search algorithm solution must be over determined in order to use this method. These distances can be adjusted in an iterative procedure wherein the distances are adjusted until a predetermined error threshold is met. For example a predetermined error threshold can be a tenth of a foot.

In the usual case the sensor nodes provide an over determined solution. This allows range residuals to be used to assess the relative quality of a node location estimate. The range residual is defined as the difference between the computed range from the node location estimate and the measured ranges obtained from the product of environmental sound velocity and transit time. The range residual RMS root mean square is defined as follows 

If a computed solution is deemed unsatisfactory because the RMS residual exceeds the prescribed tolerance and the solution remains over determined after discarding one or more detections then the Drop Bad Detections refinement is attempted.

In this refinement each available detection is sequentially dropped and a new solution is computed from the remaining detections. The RMS residual is then recalculated. In other words a total of M 1 solutions are generated each using one less detection. Each of these solutions is then compared to the RMS range residual tolerance. If any of these solutions possesses an RMS residual that is less than the tolerance then it is used. If such a candidate solution can be found it is likely that the single bad measurement has been found and removed. When multiple solutions having an RMS residual that is less than the tolerance the solution with the lowest residual can be used. In this type of Drop Bad Detection refinement a single bad arrival time measurement can be detected and removed to produce a valid solution.

If the RMS residuals for each candidate solution still exceed the tolerance then the system uses the candidate solution having the best RMS residual and a second detection is dropped sequentially from the remaining group of detections and another set of candidate solutions is generated. The RMS residual test is then applied to each of these candidate solutions which have had two detections discarded. If any of the RMS residuals fall below the tolerance then its corresponding solution is used. Again if multiple solutions have an RMS residual that is less than the tolerance the solution with the lowest residual can be used. For this type of Drop Bad Detections refinement a maximum of two bad measurements can be dropped while still providing a valid solution.

In order to establish the orientation of the sensor nodes step may include planar determination of a relative location of the sensor nodes and and the base station to each other based on the calculated distances of the sensor nodes and from each other based on the distances between the sensor nodes and and the base station . Base station operates from known latitude and longitude coordinates established by a GPS receiver or other means. This step establishes a first distance from base station to the nodes and . Base station can then be moved to different known latitude and longitude coordinates and additional base station to node distance measurements can be taken. This establishes the orientation and coordinates of the sensor nodes and .

The steps explained below for may be repeated to calculate the distance between the base station and each of the sensor nodes and . Determination and application of a sound velocity profile SVP can be used to enhance accuracy of these distances. shows a diagram illustrating use of a sound velocity profile in calculating the range between base station at the surface and an exemplary node at depth. The change in depth is given as D. The horizontal range is given as R. The range is given as R. is ray path angle with respect to the surface.

The sound velocity profile SVP documents sound velocities with respect to changes in depth. The SVP can be referenced from a database related to the location and time of the year. The SVP can also be determined by a vessel or by instruments on one of the nodes. As acoustic signals propagate sound velocity differences cause them to bend resulting in time differences for acoustic signals being transmitted across different ocean depths. Use of the sound velocity profile is more critical for calculation of ranges between the base station and the sensor nodes and because there is greater expected variation in depths along these paths. Paths among nodes are all expected to be at a small variation of depths and a single sound velocity can serve for calculation of these internodal ranges.

There are different ways to deal with the variation in sound that depend on the circumstances and the distances involved. If the sound velocity is sufficiently uniform or depths are sufficiently shallow to assure calculation of ranges within a user s tolerance an average sound velocity can be used. Otherwise an effective sound velocity must be calculated from a sound velocity profile. The effective sound velocity is the sound velocity along the path between two nodes or the node and base station. The sound velocity profile can be referenced from a sound velocity profile database or determined experimentally. The sound velocity profile database is typically referenced by location and date based on previous measurements. The effective sound velocity is calculated using either the Vaas model or effective sound velocity look up tables. Both of these methods are known in the art and are dependent on the depth and the horizontal range between the base station and node.

Orientation of the sensor nodes can be determined by other means. These means include using a directional receiver on base station that is capable of giving a bearing and azimuth to each node. Multiple receivers having a predetermined separation distance can also be positioned on base station . Using these multiple receivers will allow calculation of node positions and orientations without moving base station .

Step of includes using tracking software to locate objects such as an undersea vehicle after the locations of all of the sensor nodes and has been determined. Typically tracking software as known in the art utilizes a hyperbolic tracking routine when sound emission times aren t known. In a hyperbolic tracking routine each node receives a signal from the sound emitter at a known time. Using the known reception times a pair of nodes can determine a hyperbolic surface. The intersection of several of these hyperbolic surfaces gives the sound emitter s location. Four hydrophones or sensors are required to provide the emitter s location. In one embodiment of the current invention each node is capable of providing the known reception time at that node as a transmitted signal for reception at the base station receiver. The base station receiver can provide these signals to the base station processor which can perform the calculations to track the emitter s location.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

