---

title: Extensible torpedo
abstract: An extensible torpedo has a body, a cavity within the body and a water reactive material in communication with the cavity. A mechanism selectively positions the cavity between a first volume and a second volume and also selectively positions the torpedo between a first length and a second length. The second volume and length are greater than the first volume and length. The mechanism introduces ambient water into the cavity in a volume that represents a stoichiometric balance with the amount of water reactive material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08912423&OS=08912423&RS=08912423
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08912423
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130211
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The ability to extend or telescope following deployment is known for projectiles including undersea vehicles and torpedoes. One known mechanism for extending an undersea vehicle or torpedo following launch is a slide mechanism. In a slide mechanism a shaft member at the aft section of the projectile is slidably mounted on a boom extending from the body of the projectile. The shaft slides along the boom in a contained manner. The projectile is initially assembled with the shaft in the forward most position. The shaft is retained in the forward position until the projectile exits the launch tube. After exiting the launch tube the shaft slides to a rear flight position and is locked in this position during flight. The mechanism for extending the projectile to its flight length configuration utilizes the high pressure gas from the burning propellant of the projectile. As an alternative a separate solid propellant or compressed gas cylinder is provided in the projectile boom causing the shaft to slide to the flight position.

Some extensible projectiles create a cavity or increase an existing cavity volume upon extension. One example is an unmanned underwater vehicle having a first tail cone portion with an internal cavity and a second tail cone portion positionable in and axially extensible from the cavity. Prior to separation of the vehicle from a ram plate the tail cone second portion is held against the first portion by that ram plate. After separation of the vehicle from the launch tube a spring urges the tail cone second portion rearwardly to an extended position lengthening the vehicle and increasing the volume of the internal cavity.

Other projectiles include a compartment within their bodies. A flexible bladder is contained within the compartment and may be extended or retracted using a variety of materials including air or water. For example inlets in the body are connected through a conduit to a pump. The pump draws ambient water from around the underwater vehicle through the inlet and conduit and into the flexible bladder thereby extending it.

For explosive projectiles reactive materials are often housed within the projectile however the mass of these materials often adversely affects projectile maneuverability. In explosive projectiles that use water as a reactive material this mass is particularly burdensome. In addition reactions that use water are slowed by an excess amount of water that cools the reaction. Slowing of the reaction decreases the effectiveness of the explosive projectile.

Exemplary embodiments of systems and methods in accordance with the present invention provide a mechanism to extend the length of the torpedo. In addition mechanisms are provided to draw a pre determined volume of water into the torpedo cavity. The water is used to react with an amount of water reactive material within the torpedo and the pre determined volume of water is stoichiometrically balanced with the amount of water reactive material.

In one exemplary embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the body utilizes a rod with helical threads that is attached to the tail section of the torpedo. A motor in communication with the rod rotates and advances the rod into a threaded socket located in the nose section of the torpedo. The helical threads of the rod engage on the threaded socket and move the nose section relative to the tail section thereby lengthening the body. In this embodiment one or more openings are exposed when the body lengthens. Water enters the cavity through these openings.

In another embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the body utilizes an explosive charge located in a pocket defined by a shaft in the nose section into which a portion of the tail section extends. When an igniting mechanism in communication with the explosive charge is detonated the nose section advances relative to the tail section and lengthens the body. In this embodiment one or more openings are exposed when the body lengthens. Water enters the cavity through these openings.

In another embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the body utilizes an expandable bellows chamber attached to the tail section of the torpedo. An opening on the nose section is the entry point for water from the ambient environment. A pump within the nose section pumps water through the opening through a conduit and into the expandable bellows chamber. As the bellows chamber fills with water it expands lengthening the body and increasing the cavity volume. Alternatively one or more openings are located on the side of the body and water is pumped in also using a pump and conduit system.

A water reactive material is disposed in the torpedo adjacent the cavity. The size of the cavity is chosen such that a stoichiometric balance is achieved between the amount of water and the amount of water reactive material. With a stoichiometric balance all of the water contained in the cavity will react with all of the water reactive material. Since all of the material present in the cavity is involved in the reaction there is no excess water to cool and slow the reaction. This situation results in a quicker hotter and more efficient reaction. The water reactive material used is any material that reacts violently with water and produces gas and heat.

Exemplary embodiments in accordance with the present invention are directed to methods and systems that extend the length of underwater vehicles or underwater projectiles and that draw in water to fill a cavity located within the projectile. Suitable projectiles and underwater vehicles include but are not limited to unmanned undersea vehicles UUVs submarines and torpedoes. Embodiments as disclosed herein are discussed with respect to a torpedo embodiment. However the various aspects and features of the present invention may be used with any suitable underwater vehicle or projectile. In one exemplary embodiment the volume of the cavity increases at the same time as the length of the torpedo increases. Therefore the same mechanism draws in the water and extends the length of the torpedo simultaneously. In one exemplary embodiment the mechanism extends the length of the torpedo increases the size of the cavity and fills the cavity with water.

At least one water reactive material is provided in communication with the cavity. This water reactive material is selected to react violently when exposed to water to produce gas and heat. Suitable water reactive materials include but are not limited to an alkali metal an alkali metal hydride an alkali metal nitride calcium carbide phosphorus pentoxide a non metal halide an inorganic acid halide an anhydrous metal halide an organic acid halide an anhydride of a low molecular weight a metal hydride a non metal hydride and combinations thereof. The water used to react with the reactive material is obtained from the ambient environment of the torpedo and includes saltwater brackish water and fresh water. Alternatively a separate source of water may be provided within the torpedo. When water is drawn into the torpedo this water mixes with the water reactive material initiating the reaction between the water and the reactive material. In one exemplary embodiment the volume of the cavity is selected such that the volume of water drawn into the cavity represents a stoichiometric balance with the amount of water reactive material. As used herein a stoichiometric balance between the volume of water contained in the cavity and the amount of water reactive material provides for complete reaction between the two components. Since all of the water in the cavity is involved in the reaction there is no excess water to cool and slow the reaction. This situation results in a quicker hotter and more efficient reaction.

Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of an extensible torpedo in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In the torpedo is illustrated in a first or initial position having a first length . In the torpedo is illustrated in a second or final position having a second length . The second length is longer than the first length. In one exemplary embodiment the torpedo is positioned in its initial position during storage and prior to deployment moving to the second position following deployment. The torpedo includes a body .

A cavity is disposed within the body. In one embodiment the cavity starts as a closed cavity or a very small cavity. In the cavity has a first volume. As illustrated this first volume represents the volume of a closed cavity or very small cavity. In the cavity has a second volume. The second volume is greater than the first. Therefore the first or initial volume of the cavity in addition to being a closed cavity i.e. zero or negligible volume may be any volume up to the second volume. As illustrated the cavity has the first volume when the extensible torpedo has the first length initial position and the second volume when the extensible torpedo has the second length final position . The extensible torpedo may be moved between the first position and volume and the second position and volume.

The extensible torpedo also includes an amount of a water reactive material in communication with the cavity. The amount of water reactive material does not change when the torpedo extends from the first length to the second length however the water reactive material is consumed in the reaction. Suitable water reactive materials include any material that reacts violently with water including the materials listed above. The water reactive material is located within the body of the torpedo so as to be selectively exposed to water. In one embodiment the water reactive material is shielded from water exposure when the torpedo is in the final position. In an exemplary embodiment the water reactive material is in communication with the cavity. In one exemplary embodiment the water reactive material forms at least a portion of one wall of the cavity. In one exemplary embodiment the cavity is cylindrical and the water reactive material has a disc shape and is located at one end of the cavity. In another embodiment the water reactive material forms all of the walls of the cavity. In addition to there being a single amount or mass of water reactive material the reactive material may be formed as a plurality of smaller pieces of water reactive material. In one exemplary embodiment a plurality of separate and distinct water reactive materials are disposed within the cavity.

In order to introduce water into the cavity for reaction with the water reactive material the extensible torpedo includes one or more mechanisms to introduce water into the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment the introduced volume of water is a predetermined volume of water based on the amount of water reactive material in the cavity. This predetermined volume of water may be stored within the extensible torpedo and the mechanism may provide for mixture between the water and the water reactive material at the desired time. However in an exemplary embodiment the desired volume of water is obtained from the ambient environment of the torpedo e.g. from seawater and the mechanism controls entry of the water into the cavity. As shown in the extensible torpedo includes a nose section and a tail section opposite the nose section and the mechanism includes at least one opening passing through the body of the torpedo and disposed in the nose section of the torpedo. The opening faces a direction of travel of the torpedo as indicated by arrow A. In this embodiment the mechanism also includes a channel or conduit in fluid communication with the opening and the cavity . Alternatively the mechanism includes at least one opening disposed along the body of the torpedo between the nose section and the tail section . This opening also passes through the body of the torpedo and faces a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel of the torpedo. In this exemplary embodiment the mechanism also includes a channel or conduit in fluid communication with the opening and the cavity . In one exemplary embodiment the mechanism includes openings on both the nose section of the torpedo and along the length of the torpedo body.

In one exemplary embodiment the torpedo body is formed from a plurality of portions. These portions are movable with respect to each other. This relative movement provides for the selective positioning of the extensible torpedo in either the first length or the second length and the cavity in either the first volume or the second volume. In an exemplary embodiment the body includes at least a first portion and a second portion movably engaged with the first portion. For example the two portions may be interlocking and slidable with regard to each other along an axis parallel to the length and the direction of travel of the extensible torpedo. In one exemplary embodiment the cavity is disposed between the first portion and the second portion. Therefore at least one part of the walls of the cavity is fixed to the first portion and one part of the walls of the cavity is fixed to the second portion. In one exemplary embodiment the mechanism for filing the cavity with water includes an opening passing through either the first portion or the section portion . As illustrated the opening passes through the second portion. This opening is not exposed to the ambient environment of the torpedo when the torpedo is in the first position but becomes exposed to the ambient environment when the torpedo is in the second position. Once the opening is exposed to the ambient environment water may pass through the opening which is in communication with the cavity and into the cavity.

In one exemplary embodiment the mechanism includes at least one pump in communication with at least one of the openings and the conduits. The pump is configured to draw water in through the openings and to fill the cavity.

In order to move the first portion relative to the second portion and to extend the torpedo from the first length to the second length the torpedo includes a mechanism to move the portions of the body relative to each other i.e. an extending mechanism. Although this extending mechanism and the mechanism to introduce water into the cavity may be separate and independent mechanisms in an exemplary embodiment the extensible torpedo includes a single mechanism that extends the length of the torpedo body and fills the cavity with water. In one exemplary embodiment filling the cavity with water extends the length of the torpedo body. In another embodiment extending the length of the torpedo body fills the cavity with water.

The mechanism when introducing water into the cavity introduces a predetermined volume of water based on the amount of water reactive material in communication with the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment this predetermined volume of water is stoichiometrically balanced with the amount of water reactive material. In one exemplary embodiment the predetermined volume of water is equivalent to the first volume of the cavity Alternatively the predetermined volume of water is greater than the first volume of the cavity but less than the second volume of the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment the predetermined volume of water is equivalent to the second volume of the cavity. Therefore by extending the torpedo to the second length and the cavity to the second volume a stoichiometrically balanced amount of water is introduced into the cavity by filling the second volume of the cavity. The amount is water is then exposed to the water reactive material. Alternatively by introducing the predetermined volume of water into the cavity for exposure to the water reactive material the volume of the cavity is expanded to the second volume and the length of the torpedo body is extended to the second length.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the extensible torpedo in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The torpedo includes a nose section and a tail section opposite the nose section . The torpedo moves through the water in a direction of arrow B. The torpedo includes a body having a first portion and a second portion movably engaged with the first portion. In one exemplary embodiment the tail section is contained in the first portion and the nose section is contained in the second portion . The first and second portions are movably engaged with each other by being able to move with respect to each other in a direction as indicated by arrow C. In an exemplary embodiment arrow C is parallel to arrow B. A plurality of ridges extend along the exterior surface of the first portion parallel to the direction of arrow C. These ridges engage slots running along interior surface of the second portion . Engagement of the ridges in the slots guides movement of the first portion relative to the second portion in the direction of arrow C and inhibits rotational motion of the first section relative to the second section about an axis parallel to arrow C. In an exemplary embodiment the ridges may be substantially perpendicular normal to a surface of the body .

The torpedo also includes a cavity as defined herein. The cavity is disposed within the body and generally cylindrical in shape having a circular cross section. Disposed within the body in communication with the cavity is at least one first water reactive material . The water reactive material is disc shaped and fits with the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment a second water reactive material is also disposed within the body in communication with the cavity. The second water reactive material also has a complementary disc shape and may be the same material as the first water reactive material or a different material. In one embodiment the first and second water reactive materials are provided in an opposing arrangement at either end of the cavity. The torpedo also may include one or more main explosive charges in communication with the water reactive materials . Suitable main explosive charges include but are not limited to polymer bonded explosives PBX . As illustrated a separate main explosive charge is provided adjacent each water reactive material. Therefore reaction of the water reactive materials ignites the main explosive charges of the torpedo.

In this exemplary embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the torpedo includes at least one rotatable rod in communication with the first and second portions . The rod includes a first end disposed within the first portion and engaging a motor that is fixed to the first portion . The rod passes through a bearing sleeve that passes through the main explosive charge and water reactive material. The rod continues through the cavity and includes a second end opposite the first end that is disposed in the second portion . Extending along the length of the rod from the second end are helical threads . These helical threads engage a threaded plate or sleeve that is fixedly attached to the second portion . In one exemplary embodiment the threaded plate passes axially through the water reactive material and the main explosive charge. Rotation of the rod by the motor advances the helical threads through the threaded plate and moves the first portion of the body relative to the second portion of the body. This function changes a length of the extensible torpedo and the volume of the cavity as described herein.

The body also includes a plurality of openings disposed radially around the first portion. In an exemplary embodiment these openings are covered by the second portion when the torpedo is at the first or initial length. In one exemplary embodiment an opening is provided between adjacent pairs of ridges on the first portion. When the torpedo moves to the second length the openings are exposed. The openings are in communication with the cavity and the cavity is expanding as the length is increasing. Therefore water is drawn in through the openings to fill the cavity and the mechanism both extends the length of the torpedo and fills the cavity with the desired stoichiometrically balanced volume of water. In one exemplary embodiment the openings are disposed over one of the discs of water reactive material. In this exemplary embodiment one or more conduits or channels are provided in the water reactive material running from the openings to the cavity to provide communication between the openings and the cavity.

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of the extensible torpedo in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In this exemplary embodiment the torpedo includes a nose section and a tail section opposite the nose section and moves through the water in the direction of arrow D. The torpedo includes a body having a first portion and a second portion movably engaged with the first portion. In one exemplary embodiment the tail section is contained in the first portion and the nose section is contained in the second portion . The first and second portions are movably engaged with each other by being able to move with respect to each other in a direction as indicated by arrow E. In an exemplary embodiment arrow E is parallel to arrow D. A plurality of ridges extend along the exterior surface of the first portion parallel to the direction of arrow E. These ridges engage slots running along the interior surface of the second portion. Engagement of the ridges in the slots guides movement of the first portion relative to the second portion in the direction of arrow E and inhibits rotational motion of the first section relative to the second section about an axis parallel to arrow E.

The torpedo also includes a cavity as defined herein. The cavity is generally cylindrical in shape. Disposed within the body in communication with the cavity is at least one water reactive material . The water reactive material is disc shaped and fits with the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment a second water reactive material is also disposed within the body in communication with the cavity. The second water reactive material also has a complementary disc shape and may be the same material as the first water reactive material or a different material. In one exemplary embodiment the first and second water reactive materials are provided in an opposing arrangement at either end of the cavity. The torpedo may also include one or more main explosive charges in communication with the water reactive materials. Suitable main explosive charges include but are not limited to PBX. As illustrated a separate main explosive charge is provided adjacent each water reactive material. Therefore reaction of the water reactive materials ignites the main explosive charges of the torpedo.

Referring to in this exemplary embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the torpedo includes an explosive mechanism to drive the extensible torpedo from the first position as depicted in to the second position as depicted in . The torpedo includes the first portion and the second portion movably engaged with the first portion. A shaft extends into the second portion and the first portion extends at least partially into the shaft to define a pocket within the shaft. Although the shaft is illustrated in the second portion the shaft may be located in either portion of the torpedo. An explosive charge is contained in the pocket and an igniting mechanism is also provided in the pocket in communication with the explosive charge. When the explosive charge is detonated by the igniting mechanism the pocket fills with expanding gas driving the first portion from the shaft in a direction opposite of arrow J moving the extensible torpedo body from the first length to the second length.

Returning to a pocket is provided in the body to hold the explosive charge and igniting mechanism not shown of the length extending mechanism. The pocket is formed by a first disk that is slideably engaged in the shaft of the second portion . The second water reactive material and one of the main explosive charges are fixedly disposed within the shaft such that the first disk is located between the main explosive charge and the pocket. A rod is fixedly attached to the first disk and passes through a bearing collar running axially through the second water reactive material and one of the main explosive charges . The rod passes axially through the first water reactive material and one of the main explosive charges and is fixedly attached at its opposite end to a second disk . The second disk is disposed in the first portion and fixedly attached thereto. Therefore the distance between the first and second disks is fixed. An advance of the first disk through the cavity under the force of the gas produced by the explosive charge advances the rod through the bearing collar i.e. the shaft which the moves the first portion with respect to the second portion. This structure and function also moves the first and second water reactive materials with respect to each other and increases the volume of the cavity .

The body also includes a plurality of openings disposed radially around the first portion. In an exemplary embodiment these openings are covered by the second portion when the torpedo is at the first or initial length. In one exemplary embodiment an opening is provided between adjacent pairs of ridges on the first portion. When the torpedo moves to the second length the openings are exposed. The openings are in communication with the cavity and the cavity is expanding as the length is increasing. Therefore water is drawn in through the openings to fill the cavity and the mechanism both extends the length of the torpedo and fills the cavity with the desired stoichiometrically balanced volume of water. In one exemplary embodiment the openings are disposed over one of the discs of water reactive material. In this exemplary embodiment conduits or channels are provided in the water reactive material running from the openings to the cavity to provide communication between the openings and the cavity.

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of the extensible torpedo in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The torpedo includes a nose section and a tail section opposite the nose section . The torpedo moves through the water in the direction of arrow F. The torpedo includes a body having a first portion and a second portion movably engaged with the first portion. In one exemplary embodiment the tail section is contained in the first portion and the nose section is contained in the second portion . The first and second portions are movably engaged with each other by being able to move with respect to each other in a direction as indicated by arrow G. In an exemplary embodiment arrow G is parallel to arrow F. A plurality of ridges extend along the exterior surface of the first portion parallel to the direction of arrow G. These ridges engage slots running along the interior surface of the second portion. Engagement of the ridges in the slots guides movement of the first portion relative to the second portion in the direction of arrow G and inhibits rotational motion of the first section relative to the second section about an axis parallel to arrow G.

The torpedo also includes a cavity as defined herein. The cavity is generally cylindrical in shape. Disposed within the body in communication with the cavity is at least one water reactive material . The water reactive material is disc shaped. In an exemplary embodiment a second water reactive material is also disposed within the body in communication with the cavity. The second water reactive material also has a complementary disc shape and may be the same material as the first water reactive material or a different material. In one exemplary embodiment the first and second water reactive materials are provided in an opposing arrangement at either end of the cavity. The torpedo also may include one or more main explosive charges in communication with the water reactive materials. Suitable main explosive charges include but are not limited to PBX. As illustrated a separate main explosive charge is provided adjacent each water reactive material. Therefore reaction of the water reactive materials ignites the main explosive charges of the torpedo.

In this exemplary embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the torpedo includes at least one expandable bellows chamber in communication with at least one of the first and second portions. The cavity is disposed within the expandable bellows chamber. The expandable bellows chamber is attached to at least one portion of the torpedo. The expandable bellows chamber may be attached to the first portion the second portion or both portions. One or more openings in the nose section of the torpedo are used to communicate water from the ambient environment into the torpedo. The extensible torpedo includes at least one conduit in fluid communication with the opening and the cavity within the expandable bellows chamber . The conduit axially passes through the second water reactive material and one of the main explosive charges disposed in the section portion . In one exemplary embodiment a pump is provided in communication with the conduit . The pump assists in directing water from the opening through the conduit and into the cavity.

In this exemplary embodiment water from the ambient environment of the torpedo is pumped in through the opening using the pump . The water flows through the conduit and into the expandable bellows chamber . As the cavity and the expandable bellows chamber fills with water the chamber expands and moves the first portion relative to the second portion . The cavity also moves from the first volume to the second volume and the body length from the first length to the second length.

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of the extensible torpedo in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. This embodiment is similar to the expandable bellows chamber embodiment of but uses a plurality of radial disposed openings in the first portion in combination with a plurality of pumps disposed within the expandable bellows chamber to fill the cavity with water and to move the body from the first length to the second length. The torpedo includes a nose section and a tail section opposite the nose section . The torpedo moves through the water in the direction of arrow H. The torpedo includes a body having a first portion and a second portion movably engaged with the first portion. In one exemplary embodiment the tail section is contained in the first portion and the nose section is contained in the second portion . The first and second portions are movably engaged with each other by being able to move with respect to each other in a direction as indicated by arrow I. In an exemplary embodiment arrow I is parallel to arrow H. A plurality of ridges extend along the exterior surface of the first portion parallel to the direction of arrow I. These ridges engage slots running along the interior surface of the second portion. Engagement of the ridges in the slots guides movement of the first portion relative to the second portion in the direction of arrow I and inhibits rotational motion of the first section relative to the second section about an axis parallel to arrow I.

The torpedo also includes a cavity as defined herein. The cavity is generally cylindrical in shape. Disposed within the body in communication with the cavity is at least one water reactive material . The water reactive material is disc shaped. In an exemplary embodiment a second water reactive material is also disposed within the body in communication with the cavity. The second water reactive material also has a complementary disc shape and may be the same material as the first water reactive material or a different material. In one exemplary embodiment the first and second water reactive materials are provided in an opposing arrangement at either end of the cavity. The torpedo also may include one or more main explosive charges in communication with the water reactive materials. Suitable main explosive charges include but are not limited to PBX. As illustrated a separate main explosive charge is provided adjacent each water reactive material. Therefore reaction of the water reactive materials ignites the main explosive charges of the torpedo.

In this exemplary embodiment the mechanism to extend the length of the torpedo includes at least one expandable bellows chamber in communication with at least one of the first and second portions. The cavity is disposed within the bellows chamber . The bellows chamber in this embodiment is filled by water pumped from a plurality of openings disposed radially around and passing through the first portion of the torpedo. The torpedo includes a plurality of conduits or channels . Each conduit is in fluid communication with one of the openings and the cavity . A plurality of pumps are provided within the bellows chamber in communication with the conduits. Therefore the size of the interior of the bellows chamber is sufficient to accommodate a sufficient volume of the cavity to hold the desired stoichiometrically balanced amount of water and to account for the amount of space occupied by the pumps contained within the bellows chamber. The openings are not covered by the second portion when the torpedo is in the initial position. As water is drawn through the openings by the pumps and into the expandable bellows chamber the bellows chamber fills with water expanding and moving the first portion relative to the second portion . In one exemplary embodiment the cavity also moves from the first volume to the second volume and the body from the first length to the second length.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

