---

title: Method and device for presenting video navigating interface, displaying device and computer programming product
abstract: A method and a device for presenting a video navigating interface, a displaying device and a computer programming product are provided, the method includes: providing a video navigating interface; obtaining a plurality of video information of a plurality of online videos corresponding to a searching condition, wherein each of the video information includes a plurality of quantitative information; generating a plurality of video blocks according to the video information; retrieving at least two quantitative information from the quantitative information of each video information; adjusting the order of the video blocks and the width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information, to generate a video block sequence; and presenting the video block sequence in the video navigating interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344767&OS=09344767&RS=09344767
owner: Wistron Corporation
number: 09344767
owner_city: New Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20131225
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Taiwan application serial no. 102102392 filed on Jan. 22 2013. The entirety of the above mentioned patent application is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

The invention relates to a video navigating interface and more particularly to a method for presenting the video navigating interface a device for presenting the video navigating interface using the method a displaying device and a computer programming product.

Generally speaking a digital television system provides a program schedule through an electronic program guide EPG for users to check the information of videos or programs played at different times on different channels.

However since a diversified means of information transmission are now available it is getting more popular to watch online videos or listen to online music through the Internet. Take online videos that are broadcasted via the Internet as an example. Since there are many types of online videos and the online videos are not belonging to any television channel the traditional electronic program guide which presents the information of videos or programs by listing TV channels and program schedule are not suitable for online videos.

Accordingly the invention provides a method and device for presenting a video navigating interface a displaying device and a computer programming product which effectively make it more convenient for the users to check the information of online videos via the video navigating guide.

Embodiments of the invention provide a method for presenting a video navigating interface including steps of providing a video navigating interface obtaining a plurality of video information of a plurality of online videos corresponding to a searching condition wherein each video information includes a plurality of quantitative information generating a plurality of video blocks according to the plurality of video information retrieving at least two quantitative information from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information adjusting an order of the video blocks and a width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate a video block sequence and presenting the video block sequence in the video navigating interface.

In an embodiment of the invention the method for presenting the video navigating interface further includes a step of regularly updating the plurality of video information from the Internet according to a predetermined rule.

In an embodiment of the invention the quantitative information retrieved from the plurality of quantitative information of each of the video information include a first quantitative information and a second quantitative information and the step of adjusting the order of the video blocks and the width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate the video block sequence includes steps of adjusting the order of the video blocks according to the plurality of first quantitative information adjusting the width of each video block according to the plurality of second quantitative information and generating a video block sequence according to the adjusted video blocks.

In an embodiment of the invention the step of adjusting the order of the video blocks according to the plurality of first quantitative information includes steps of comparing the plurality of first quantitative information to generate a first result and determining and adjusting the order of the video blocks according to the first result.

In an embodiment of the invention in the method for presenting the video navigating interface the step of adjusting the width of each video block according to the plurality of second quantitative information includes steps of comparing the plurality of second quantitative information to generate a second result and determining and adjusting the width of video blocks according to the second result.

In an embodiment of the invention the method for presenting the video navigating interface further includes steps of receiving a selecting operation generating at least two parameters according to the selecting operation and determining at least two quantitative information in the quantitative information of each video information according to the at least two parameters.

In an embodiment of the invention the method for presenting the video navigating interface further includes steps of receiving an input operation and generating a searching condition according to the input operation.

In an embodiment of the invention the plurality of quantitative information include at least two quantitative information among a video length a video resolution a video publication time a number of viewers a number of people who like a video a number of people who dislike the video a number of people who share a video and a number of people who comment on a video.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a device for presenting a video navigating interface which is coupled to a displaying device that displays a video navigating interface. The device for presenting the video navigating interface includes a storage unit and a processing unit. The storage unit stores a plurality of video information of a plurality of online videos wherein each video information includes a plurality of quantitative information. The processing unit is coupled to the storage unit for providing the video navigating interface obtaining the plurality of video information of the online videos corresponding to a searching condition generating a plurality of video blocks according to the plurality of video information retrieving at least two quantitative information from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information adjusting an order of the video blocks and a width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate a video block sequence and presenting the video block sequence in the video navigating interface.

In an embodiment of the invention the device for presenting the video navigating interface further includes an Internet connection unit which provides an Internet accessing function wherein the processing unit further obtains the plurality of video information from the Internet via the Internet connection unit.

In an embodiment of the invention the quantitative information retrieved from the plurality of quantitative information of each of the video information include a first quantitative information and a second quantitative information. The processing unit adjusts the order of the video blocks according to the plurality of first quantitative information adjusts the width of each video block according to the plurality of second quantitative information and generates the video block sequence according to the adjusted video blocks.

In embodiment of the invention the processing unit compares the plurality of first quantitative information to generate a first result and determines and adjusts the order of the video blocks according to the first result.

In embodiment of the invention the processing unit compares the plurality of second quantitative information to generate a second result and determines and adjusts the width of the video blocks according to the second result.

In an embodiment of the invention the device for presenting the video navigating interface further includes an input unit for receiving a selecting operation wherein the processing unit generates at least two parameters according to the selecting operation and determines at least two quantitative information in the quantitative information of each video information according to the at least two parameters.

In an embodiment of the invention the device for presenting the video navigating interface further includes an input unit for receiving an input operation and generates a searching condition according to the input operation.

In an embodiment of the invention the plurality of quantitative information include at least two quantitative information among a video length a video resolution a video publication time a number of viewers a number of people who like a video a number of people who dislike the video a number of people who share the video and a number of people who comment on the video.

Embodiments of the invention further provide a displaying device. The displaying device includes a displaying unit a storage unit and a processing unit. The displaying unit displays a video navigating interface. The storage unit stores a plurality of video information of a plurality of online videos wherein each video information includes a plurality of quantitative information. The processing unit is coupled to the displaying unit and the storage unit for providing the video navigating interface obtaining the plurality of video information of the online videos corresponding to a searching condition generating a plurality of video blocks according to the plurality of video information retrieving at least two quantitative information from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information adjusting an order of the video blocks and a width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate a video block sequence and presenting the video block sequence in the video navigating interface.

From another perspective the invention further provides a computer programming product in which a plurality of program codes are stored. After the program codes are loaded in a processing unit the processing unit executes the program codes to complete the following steps of providing a video navigating interface obtaining a plurality of video information of online videos corresponding to a searching condition wherein each video information includes a plurality of quantitative information generating a plurality of video blocks according to the plurality of video information retrieving at least two quantitative information from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information adjusting an order of the video blocks and a width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate a video block sequence and presenting the video block sequence in the video navigating interface.

Based on the above the invention can obtain corresponding video information according to a searching condition and generate a corresponding video block according to the obtained video information. Thereafter at least two quantitative information is retrieved from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information and the order of the video blocks and the width of each video block are adjusted according to the retrieved plurality of quantitative information for generating the video block sequence that can be presented in the video navigating interface. Accordingly through checking the video block sequence presented in the video navigating interface the users can immediately and directly acquire the information of each online video in the user s interested or favorite video categories.

In order to make the aforementioned features and advantages of the invention more comprehensible embodiments accompanying figures are described in detail below.

The device for presenting the video navigating interface includes a storage unit an input unit an Internet connection unit and a processing unit . The storage unit stores information. In the embodiment the storage unit is for example any types of non volatile memory or a combination thereof such as a read only memory ROM and or a flash memory. In addition the storage unit may also include a storage medium such as a hard disk an optical disk or an external storage device such as a memory card a portable hard drive etc. or a combination thereof which should not be construed as a limitation to the invention. Moreover in an embodiment the storage unit may also be a remote storage device and is connected to the device for presenting the video navigating interface through the Internet.

In the embodiment the storage unit may be adapted for storing a plurality of video information of a plurality of online videos. The foregoing online videos are for example any types of online videos or music that can be downloaded from the Internet or directly viewed online such as movies dramas short films news music and so on. Meanwhile the foregoing video information is for example any descriptive information and statistics that can be obtained from the Internet and are related to the online videos. For example the currently common video information include online video information of music information such as the title of a video the introduction of the video the length of the video the type of the video the resolution of the video the contributor of the video the video publication time a number of viewers a number of people who like the video a number of people who dislike the video a number of people who share the video a number of people who comment on the video a link in the video and so on.

For instance the storage unit may have a database which has a plurality of information tables and each information table may be adapted for storing video information of an online video. In the embodiment each information table in the storage unit may have a plurality of columns such as a video title column a video introduction column a video length column a video type column a video resolution column a contributor column a publication time column a column of a number of viewers a column of a number of people who like the video a column of a number of people who dislike the video a column of a number of people who share the video a column of a number of people who comment on the video a column of a link in a video and so on which are adaptable for storing corresponding video information.

In particular in the embodiment each video information includes two or more quantitative information and each quantitative information is statistical information that is shown in quantitative forms. Take the video information recorded in the foregoing information table as an example. The quantitative information in the video information are for example at least two quantitative information among a video length resolution a video publication time a number of viewers a number of people who like a video a the number of people who dislike the video a number of people who share the video and a number of people who comment on the video.

The input unit is a wired or wireless signal input device such as a mouse a keyboard a remote controller or etc. The Internet connection unit is for example a wired wireless network interface card a communication chip or etc. which may be adapted for providing an Internet accessing function to the device for presenting the video navigating interface. In other words by the Internet connection unit the device for presenting the video navigating interface can receive information from a remote server host through the Internet or transmit information to the remote server host.

The processing unit is coupled to the displaying device the storage unit the input unit and the Internet connection unit . In the embodiment the processing unit is for example a central processing unit CPU or any type of chip set that has a processing and calculation functions. Furthermore the term couple to mentioned above may refer to a physical connection or a wireless connection which should not be construed as a limitation to the invention.

In the embodiment the processing unit may regularly update the video information in the storage unit from the Internet according to a predetermined rule. For example the processing unit may obtain relevant video information via a searching interface provided by an online video searching platform every other period e.g. every 24 hours or according to the way the user uses it.

Alternatively by an online video providing platform or subscripting service provided by an online video provider the processing unit may also regularly or irregularly receive a video information list from the online video providing platform or the online video provider. The subscripting service mentioned above is for example really simple syndication RSS service atom syndication format service or etc. Moreover the video information list is in a format of for example extensible markup language XML or hypertext markup language HTML .

For instance when receiving the video information list from the online video providing platform or the online video provider the processing unit may analyze the video information list according to the XML format or the HTML format to obtain the video information in the video information list. Thereafter the processing unit may store the analyzed video information in the storage unit according to a database format of the storage unit .

In the embodiment the processing unit may provide a video navigating interface to the displaying device for which to display the video navigating interface to the user by the video navigating interface the user can acquire the related information of online videos.

In particular in the embodiment the user can perform a specific input operation so that the video navigating interface can meet the user s needs to a greater extent. For example the user may define a searching condition to be the type of favorite online videos or favorite actors names. Then the video navigating interface will present the online videos that match the searching conditions.

Specifically when the user enters one or more keywords via the input unit the processing unit will use the one or more keywords as a searching condition to retrieve the video information that matches the searching condition from the storage unit . For example when the user enters a keyword hilarious via the input unit the processing unit will search for the keyword and retrieve the video information that matches the keyword hilarious from the database of storage unit .

Furthermore in an embodiment the processing unit not only can retrieve the video information that matches the searching condition from the storage unit the processing unit also can obtain the video information that matches the searching condition from the Internet via the Internet connection unit . For example the processing unit may obtain the video information that matches the searching condition via a remote server having an online video searching function or an application programming interface API i.e. searching interface provided by an online video searching platform and stores the obtained video information in the storage unit .

Take Youtube which is an online video searching platform as an example. The processing unit may transmit a query message with a keyword hilarious e.g. gdata.youtube.com feeds api videos hilarious alt rss to the online video searching platform Youtube via the Internet connection unit and then receive a video information list and relevant video information that are returned by the online video searching platform Youtube and contain the keyword hilarious and or match the searching condition.

Thereafter the processing unit will generate one or more video blocks according to the video information that matches the searching condition among the searching results wherein each video block corresponds to one video information that matches the searching condition. Subsequently the processing unit retrieves two or more quantitative information from the plurality of quantitative information of each video information that matches the searching condition from the storage unit .

Take the two quantitative information retrieved from the plurality of quantitative information as an example hereafter first quantitative information and second quantitative information . Assume that the processing unit predetermines the first quantitative information to be publication time information and predetermines the second quantitative information to be the number of viewers. The processing unit will retrieve from the storage unit a plurality of publication time information from a publication time column in each information table that matches the searching condition and retrieve a plurality of viewer number information from the column of the number of viewers in each information table that matches the searching condition from the storage unit .

Then since the retrieved plurality of first quantitative information such as the publication time information and the plurality of second quantitative information such as the viewer number information respectively correspond to each online video that matches the searching condition and each online video corresponds to each video block the processing unit can adjust an order of the video blocks and a width of each video block according to the retrieved plurality of first quantitative information such as the publication time information and the plurality of second quantitative information such as the viewer number information to generate a video block sequence.

Therefore different from a conventional TV program schedule or an electronic program guide EPG that simply presents a program playlist with the time when a program is played and fixed channels the invention can further fulfill the user s needs when the user searches for online videos or checks the video information of online videos.

At this point the processing unit respectively retrieve three first quantitative information and three second quantitative information from the video information of movies Hellraiser Sakado 3D and The shining. Thereafter the processing unit adjusts the order of video blocks according to the three first quantitative information. For example the processing unit compares the plurality of first quantitative information to generate a comparison result to determine and adjust the order of the video blocks according to the comparison result or a first result .

Take the publication time information of each online video as an example for the first quantitative information. After the processing unit compares the publication time information i.e. the first quantitative information of the movies Hellraiser Sakado 3D and The shining assume that the publication time of the movie Sakado 3D is the earliest the publication time of the movie The shining is the latest and the publication time of the movie Hellraiser is between the movies Sakado 3D and The shining. At this point the processing unit may by an ascending manner adjust the video block to the first order wherein the video block corresponds to the movie Sakado 3D which is published at an earliest time adjust the video block to the second order wherein the video block corresponds to the movie Hellraiser which is published at a later time and adjust the video block to the third order wherein the video block corresponds to the movie The shining which is published the most recently so that the movies are arranged from the earliest to the latest. Alternatively the processing unit may arrange the video blocks in a descending manner i.e. from the latest to the earliest depending on the actual needs.

Subsequently the processing unit adjust the width of the video blocks according to the second quantitative information retrieved from the video information of the movies Hellraiser Sakado 3D and The shining. For example the processing unit compares the plurality of second quantitative information to generate a comparison result to determine and adjust the width of the video blocks according to the comparison result or a second result .

Take the viewer number information of each online video as an example for the second quantitative information. After the processing unit compares the viewer number information i.e. the second quantitative information for the movies Hellraiser Sakado 3D and The shining assume that the number of viewers for the movie Hellraiser is the largest the number of viewers for the movie Sakado 3D is the least and the number of viewers for the movie The shining is between the movies Sakado 3D and Hellraiser. At this point the processing unit adjusts the width of the video block to a first width D wherein the video block corresponds to the movie Hellraiser which is viewed by the largest number of people adjusts the width of the video block to a second width D wherein the video block corresponds to the movie The shining which is viewed by the second largest number of people and adjusts the width of the video block to a third width D wherein the video block corresponds to the movie Sakado 3D which is viewed by the least number of people among which the first width D is greater than the second width D the second width D is greater than the third width D and the actual width of the first width D the second width D and the third width D may be determined depending on actual needs.

In other words after the widths are adjusted each video block will have a corresponding width. For example if there are three video blocks the widths of the three video blocks may be the first width D the second width D and the third width D respectively. Alternatively when two or more video blocks correspond to equivalent second quantitative information the two or more video blocks may have the same width.

Next the processing unit generates a video block sequence according to the adjusted video blocks and presents the video block sequence in the video navigating interface provided in the processing unit . Additionally the processing unit may also store the generated video block sequence in the storage unit . Next time when providing the video navigating interface the processing unit can read the generated video block sequence in the storage unit and display the video block sequence in the provided video navigating interface.

In other words through one or more video block sequences presented in the video navigating interface the user can immediately and directly know what online videos match the searching condition and the comparison results for relevant video information of the online videos such as rating popularity publication date and so on.

In the meantime in an embodiment the user can also select the desired online video from the video block sequence on the video navigating interface via the input unit to play the online video to which the selected video block corresponds. For example in when the user knows from the video block sequence on the video navigating interface that the movie Hellraiser is published currently and is viewed by a large number of people the user can perform a selecting operation to select the video block via the input unit . Thereafter when the processing unit detects the selecting operation the processing unit will correspondingly play the movie Hellraiser according to the selecting operation. For example the processing unit can download the movie Hellrasier from the Internet and play it according to a video link in the video information to which the video block corresponds. Accordingly the ways of presenting video information in the video navigating interface can be significantly diversified and the operation flexibility in viewing online videos via the video navigating interface is also enhanced.

It should be understood that in the embodiment the user not only can enter a self defined keyword e.g. horror movies to be a searching condition via the input unit the user can also select a favorite keyword from a predetermined keyword list. For example the processing unit can preset a plurality of predetermined keywords for the user s selection. Then the user can perform a selecting operation via the input unit to select a desired keyword from the predetermined keywords. Then the processing unit will present a corresponding video block sequence e.g. the video block sequence in the video navigating interface according to the keyword selected by the user.

The user not only can define a searching condition e.g. a keyword in the embodiment the user can also decide which quantitative information to be retrieved from each video information.

When selecting the program order option via the input unit the user can select desired quantitative information e.g. publication time from a plurality of quantitative information via the drop down menu provided in the program order option to be the first quantitative information. Additionally when selecting the interval option via the input unit the user can select desired quantitative information e.g. the number of viewers from a plurality of quantitative information via the drop down menu provided in the interval option to be the second quantitative information. The setting window not only can provide a drop down menu as an input interface for the user the setting window can also display an input block to receive the user s input operation. For example when the user enters a keyword in an input block in the setting window via the input unit the processing unit will determine the corresponding quantitative information according to the keyword.

In other words in terms of the processing unit the processing unit can generate a corresponding first parameter according to the user s selecting operation in the program order option and determine a corresponding first quantitative information among each video information according to the first parameter. Also the processing unit can generate a corresponding second parameter according to the user s selecting operation in the interval option and determine a corresponding second quantitative information among each video information according to the second parameter.

Meanwhile more parameters e.g. a third parameter and or a fourth parameter may also be adopted to determine more quantitative information e.g. third quantitative information and or fourth quantitative information which should not be construed as a limitation to the invention. For example in an embodiment the processing unit can adjust the style of presenting each video block in the video block sequence according to more quantitative information. For example the processing unit can generate a third parameter according to the user s selecting operation or input operation and determine a corresponding third quantitative information among each video information according to the third parameter. Then the processing unit can present each video block in the video block sequence in different colors shapes or flickering frequency according to the determined third quantitative information retrieved from each video information. For example the processing unit can present the video block to which the greatest third quantitative information corresponds in the most rapid flickering frequency and present the video block to which the least third quantitative information corresponds in the slowest flickering frequency.

Apart from that through selecting an ascending order option or a descending order option in the setting window the user can also enable the processing unit to order the video blocks from the greatest to the least i.e. ascending order or from the least to the greatest i.e. descending order according to the quantity of a quantitative information e.g. first quantitative information in each video information.

The invention also provides a displaying device. For example is diagram illustrating a displaying device according to an embodiment of the invention. Referring to a displaying device may be any displaying device that has displaying and calculation functions such as a TV a smart phone a notebook a tablet PC a desktop computer or etc.

A displaying device includes a storage unit an input unit an Internet connection unit and a processing unit wherein the units are respectively similar to the storage unit the input unit the Internet connection unit and the processing unit in . Therefore no further description is incorporated herein.

The displaying device further includes a displaying unit which is coupled to the processing unit . The displaying unit is similar to the displaying device in and may be adapted for receiving and displaying a video navigating interface provided by the processing unit . In addition in the embodiment the input unit may also be combined with the displaying unit to become a displaying unit with a touch control function e.g. a touch control screen which should not be construed as a limitation to the invention.

Since the displaying device has the basic elements that are included in the foregoing device for presenting a video navigating interface the displaying device can accomplish the purposes and technical effects that can be accomplished by the foregoing device for presenting a video navigating interface.

Furthermore the invention also provides a method for presenting a video navigating interface. is diagram illustrating a method for presenting a video navigating interface according to an embodiment of the invention. The method for presenting a video navigating interface in an embodiment of the invention will be described below by using the device for presenting the video navigating interface in .

Referring to in step S the processing unit provides a video navigating interface. Next in step S the processing unit obtains a plurality of video information of a plurality online videos corresponding to a searching condition wherein each video information includes a plurality of quantitative information. Then in step S the processing unit generates a plurality of video blocks according to the obtained video information. Thereafter in step S the processing unit retrieves at least two quantitative information from the quantitative information of each video information. Furthermore in step S the processing unit adjusts the order of the video blocks and the width of each video block according to the retrieved quantitative information to generate a video block sequence. Then in step S the processing unit presents the video block sequence in the video navigating interface provided therein.

Specifically with regard to the details of the foregoing method sufficient teaching suggestions and conduction can be obtained from the foregoing embodiments. Therefore no further description is incorporated herein.

In addition each step in the method for presenting the video navigating interface mentioned in the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in the form of software or firmware. For example another embodiment of the invention provides a computer programming product and the concept thereof is similar to that of the foregoing embodiments. The computer programming product may have a plurality of program codes. After the program codes are loaded in a processor e.g. a processor the processor executes the program codes to complete the steps in the method described in the foregoing embodiments and relevant actuations. The computer programming product may include a read only memory ROM a flash memory a CD ROM a magnetic tape a flexible disk an optical information storage element and etc. The computer programming product may also be distributed in a computer system coupled to the network to store and execute the foregoing program codes in a distribution manner.

To sum up the method and device for presenting the video navigating interface the displaying device and the computer programming product in the embodiment of the invention can provide a video navigating interface and display the user s interested or favorite online videos in the video navigating interface via a video block sequence according to a keyword selected or entered by the user. In particular the video block sequence presented in the video navigating interface is characterized by two or more corresponding quantitative information that the user is interested in. The characteristics may be presented in a manner such as the order of the video blocks the width colors shapes or flickering frequency of the video blocks. Accordingly by viewing each video block sequence in the video navigating interface the user can immediately and directly know information such as the rating popularity publication date of each online video in the user s interested or favorite video categories.

Although the invention has been disclosed by the above embodiments the embodiments are not intended to limit the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the structure of the invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore the protecting range of the invention falls in the appended claims.

