---

title: β-glucuronide-linker drug conjugates
abstract: Ligand Drug conjugate compounds comprising a β-glucuronide-based linker and methods of using such compounds are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE045272&OS=RE045272&RS=RE045272
owner: Seattle Genetics, Inc.
number: RE045272
owner_city: Bothell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131017
---
This application is a reissue application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 996 009 filed Jan. 17 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 039 273 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 700 422 filed Jul. 18 2005 and 60 779 076 filed Mar. 4 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein.

Monoclonal antibody therapies are gaining momentum as adjunct and front line treatments for cancer. Successes of mAb therapies like AVASTIN anti VEGF for colon cancer RITUXAN Rituximab anti CD20 for Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma and HERCEPTIN anti Her2 for breast cancer have demonstrated that unconjugated antibodies can improve patient survival without the incidence of significantly increased toxicity.

Monoclonal antibodies mAb can be conjugated to a therapeutic agent to form an antibody drug conjugate ADC . ADCs can exhibit increased efficacy as compared to an unconjugated antibody. The linkage of the antibody to the drug can be direct or indirect via a linker. One of components believed to be important for developing effective and well tolerated ADCs is the composition and stability of the linker. For some types of ADCs the linker desirably provides serum stability yet selectively releases the drug at or within the target cell.

Attachment of a linker to a mAb can be accomplished in a variety of ways such as through surface lysines reductive coupling to oxidized carbohydrates and through cysteine residues liberated by reducing interchain disulfide linkages. A variety of ADC linkage systems have been described in the literature including hydrazone disulfide and peptide based linkages. Some hydrazone and disulfide based linkers can be labile in circulation resulting in release of drug outside the targeted tissue. It is believed that this premature release of drug might lead to systemic toxicity or organ specific toxicity and or less than optimal therapeutic efficacy. Peptide based linker strategies may provide linkers of higher stability however the increased associated hydrophobicity of some linkers may lead to aggregation particularly with strongly hydrophobic drugs. Such aggregation may lead to non specific uptake of the ADCs into non targeted tissues potentially affecting non target toxicity.

 glucuronides are metabolites produced in the liver and kidneys by a class of enzymes known as UDP glucuronosyl transferases. These transferases are involved in a metabolic transformation leading to the clearance of xenobiotics from the body. Glucuronidation dramatically increases the solubility of substrate compounds allowing more efficient renal clearance.

 glucuronidase is a UDP glucuronosyl transferase which is present in the lysosomes of essentially all human tissues. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of the glycosidic bond of glucuronides with configuration and is reported to have broad substrate specificity. It is most active at a low pH with the enzymatic efficiency dropping to approximately 10 at neutral pH. glucuronidase has been reported to be over expressed in breast cancer tissue relative to peritumor tissue. In spite of its ubiquitous nature the enzyme is effectively sequestered inside cell lysosomes and minimal immunohistochemical staining is observed in the extracellular space of normal tissue samples. One exception is the glucuronidase activity seen in the intestinal tract arising from the presence of E. coli.

In contrast to normal tissues the interstitial space of necrotic tumor tissue displays high levels of glucuronidase activity. The source is believed to be inflammatory cells and not directly from the tumor tissue. Based on this observation glucuronide prodrugs primarily of doxorubicin have been prepared for research in monotherapy. The rationale for this approach is that the glucuronide prodrug would be less toxic than free drug due to its inability to enter cells. The prodrug has two primary fates prodrug in the vicinity of the tumor will be converted to free drug while the remaining prodrug will be rapidly cleared through the kidneys. glucuronide prodrugs have been reported for use in ADEPT Antibody Directed Enzyme Pro drug Therapy . glucuronide prodrug based therapies require however high systemic levels of prodrugs which may be associated with undesired toxicities.

There remains a need therefore for targeted delivery of prodrugs resulting in elimination of targeted cells while reducing toxicity to non target cells.

There is a further need for ADCs with linker systems that provide a high level of linker serum stability and increased solubility allowing the efficient conjugation of hydrophobic drugs and that effect intracellular delivery of drugs.

These and other limitations and problems of the past are solved by the present invention. The recitation of any reference in this application is not an admission that the reference is prior art to this application. 

The present invention provides ligand drug conjugates and linker drug conjugates for targeted delivery of drugs. The ligand drug conjugates include a ligand such as an antibody for targeting the conjugate to a target cell or tissue. The conjugates further include a glucuronide based linker comprising a site that can be cleaved by an enzyme having glucuronidase activity. The linker is attached to the ligand and to a drug. The invention further provides methods of treating cancer immune disease infectious disease and other diseases or disorders using a ligand drug conjugate including a glucuronide based linker. The ligand drug conjugates surprisingly yet exhibit serum stability to provide targeted delivery of linked drug to a target cell.

In some embodiments the Ligand is an antibody such as a chimeric humanized or human antibody or an antigen binding antibody fragment.

In some embodiments the Glucuronide unit W comprises the formula Su O Z wherein S is sugar moiety O is a bond cleavable by a Glucuronidase and Z is a self immolative group and wherein Z forms a covalent bond with Y or D and Su forms a covalent bond with L or A.

The ligand drug conjugate compounds can be formulated as a pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of the ligand drug conjugate compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or excipient. The pharmaceutical composition optionally can include therapeutically effective amount of chemotherapeutic agent.

In another aspect a method of killing or inhibiting the proliferation of tumor cells or cancer cells is provided. The methods generally include treating tumor cells or cancer cells with an amount of the ligand drug conjugate compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof being effective to kill or inhibit the proliferation of the tumor cells or cancer cells.

In another aspect a method for treating cancer is provided. The method generally includes administering to a patient an amount of the antibody drug conjugate compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof the amount being effective to treat cancer. The method can optionally include administering an effective amount of an additional anticancer agent an immunosuppressant agent or an anti infectious agent.

In another aspect a method for treating an autoimmune disease is provided. The method includes administering to a patient an amount of ligand drug conjugate compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof the amount being effective to treat the autoimmune disease.

In another aspect a method for treating an infectious disease is provided. The method generally includes administering to a patient an amount of the ligand drug conjugate compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof the amount being effective to treat the infectious disease.

These and other aspect of the invention will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. The discussion below is descriptive illustrative and exemplary and is not to be taken as limiting the scope defined by any appended claims.

For clarity of disclosure and not by way of limitation the detailed description of the invention is divided into the subsections which follow.

Unless stated otherwise the following terms and phrases as used herein are intended to have the following meanings. When trade names are used herein the trade names includes the trade name product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product unless otherwise indicated by context.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and refers to intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and to antibody fragments that exhibit the desired biological activity e.g. antigen binding . The antibody can be of any type or class e.g. IgG IgE IgM IgD and IgA or sub class e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 .

An intact antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain C and heavy chain constant domains C1 C2 C3 and or C4 as appropriate for the antibody class. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variant thereof.

An antibody may have one or more effector functions which refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include C1q binding complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC Fc receptor binding antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC phagocytosis down regulation of cell surface receptors e.g. B cell receptor BCR etc.

 Single chain Fv or scFv antibody fragments comprise the Vand Vdomains of an antibody wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. The Fpolypeptide typically further comprises a polypeptide linker between the Vand Vdomains which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv see Pl uckthun in The Pharmacology of Monoclonal Antibodies vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 1994 .

The term diabody refers to a small antibody fragment with two antigen binding sites which fragment comprises a variable heavy domain V connected to a variable light domain V in the same polypeptide chain. By using a linker that is too short to allow pairing between the two domains V V of the same chain the domains are forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen binding sites. Diabodies are described more fully in for example EP 0 404 097 WO 93 11161 and Hollinger et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448. The two antigen binding sites can be the same or different.

An isolated antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody and may include enzymes hormones and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In some embodiments the antibody will be purified 1 to greater than 95 by weight of antibody as determined by the Lowry method or to greater than 99 by weight 2 to a degree sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator or 3 to homogeneity by SDS PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or silver stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.

An antibody which binds an antigen of interest is one capable of binding that antigen with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful in targeting a cell expressing the antigen.

The terms specifically binds and specific binding refer to antibody binding to a predetermined antigen. Typically the antibody binds with an affinity of at least about 1 10M and binds to the predetermined antigen with an affinity that is at least two fold greater than its affinity for binding to a non specific antigen e.g. BSA casein other than the predetermined antigen or a closely related antigen.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a drug e.g. a ligand drug conjugate or linker drug conjugate effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms target polypeptide target protein and target antigen refer to a protein polypeptide and in addition in the case of a target antigen another molecule on the surface of or associated with a target cell.

 Compound as in the terms compound of the formula compound of the formula and the like refers to and encompasses the chemical compound itself as well as whether explicitly stated or not and unless the context makes clear that the following are to be excluded amorphous and crystalline forms of the compound including polymorphic forms where these forms may be part of a mixture or in isolation free acid and free base forms of the compound which are typically the forms shown in the structures provided herein isomers of the compound which refers to optical isomers and tautomeric isomers where optical isomers include enantiomers and diastereomers chiral isomers and non chiral isomers and the optical isomers include isolated optical isomers as well as mixtures of optical isomers including racemic and non racemic mixtures where an isomer may be in isolated form or in admixture with one or more other isomers isotopes of the compound including deuterium and tritium containing compounds and including compounds containing radioisotopes including therapeutically and diagnostically effective radioisotopes multimeric forms of the compound including dimeric trimeric etc. forms salts of the compound preferably pharmaceutically acceptable salts including acid addition salts and base addition salts including salts having organic counterions and inorganic counterions and including zwitterionic forms where if a compound is associated with two or more counterions the two or more counterions may be the same or different and solvates of the compound including hemisolvates monosolvates disolvates etc. including organic solvates and inorganic solvates said inorganic solvates including hydrates where if a compound is associated with two or more solvent molecules the two or more solvent molecules may be the same or different. In some instances reference made herein to a compound of the invention will include an explicit reference to one or of the above forms e.g. salts and solvates however this reference is for emphasis only and is not to be construed as excluding other of the above forms as identified above.

The term alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon having the indicated number of carbon atoms e.g. C Calkyl refers to an alkyl group having from 1 to 8 carbon atoms . When the number of carbon atoms is not indicated the alkyl group has from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Representative C Calkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH and 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH . An alkyl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to O C Calkyl aryl C O R OC O R C O OR C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R SOR S O R S O R S O R OH halogen N NH2 NH R N R and CN where each R is independently selected from H unsubstituted C Calkyl and aryl.

The term alkenyl refers to a C Chydrocarbon containing normal secondary tertiary or cyclic carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation Le. a carbon carbon spdouble bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethylene or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH cyclopentenyl CH and 5 hexenyl CHCHCHCHCH CH .

The term alkynyl refers to a C Chydrocarbon containing normal secondary tertiary or cyclic carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to acetylenic C CH and propargyl CHC CH .

The term alkylene refers to a saturated branched or straight chain or cyclic hydrocarbon radical of 1 18 carbon atoms and having two monovalent radical centers derived by the removal of two hydrogen atoms from the same or two different carbon atoms of a parent alkane. Typical alkylenes include but are not limited to methylene CH 1 2 ethyl CHCH 1 3 propyl CHCHCH 1 4 butyl CHCHCHCH and the like.

The term alkenylene refers to an unsaturated branched or straight chain or cyclic hydrocarbon radical of 2 18 carbon atoms and having two monovalent radical centers derived by the removal of two hydrogen atoms from the same or two different carbon atoms of a parent alkene. Typical alkenylene radicals include but are not limited to 1 2 ethylene CH CH .

The term alkynylene refers to an unsaturated branched or straight chain or cyclic hydrocarbon radical of 2 18 carbon atoms and having two monovalent radical centers derived by the removal of two hydrogen atoms from carbon atoms of a parent alkyne. Typical alkynylene radicals include but are not limited to acetylene C C propargyl CHC C and 4 pentynyl CHCHCHC C .

The term aryl refers to a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . An aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene substituted benzene phenyl naphthalene anthracene biphenyl and the like. An aryl can be substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to C Calkyl O C Calkyl C O R OC O R C O OR C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R S O R S O R OH halogen N NH NH R N R and CN wherein each R is independently selected from H C Calkyl and unsubstituted aryl.

The term arylalkyl refers to an acyclic alkyl radical in which one of the hydrogen atoms bonded to a carbon atom typically a terminal or spcarbon atom is replaced with an aryl radical. Typical arylalkyl groups include but are not limited to benzyl 2 phenylethan 1 yl 2 phenylethen 1 yl naphthylmethyl 2 naphthylethan 1 yl 2 naphthylethen 1 yl naphthobenzyl 2 naphthophenylethan 1 yl and the like. The arylalkyl group comprises 6 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. the alkyl moiety including alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl groups of the arylalkyl group is 1 to 6 carbon atoms and the aryl moiety is 5 to 14 carbon atoms.

The term heteroarylalkyl refers to an acyclic alkyl radical in which one of the hydrogen atoms bonded to a carbon atom typically a terminal or spcarbon atom is replaced with a heteroaryl radical. Typical heteroarylalkyl groups include but are not limited to 2 benzimidazolylmethyl 2 furylethyl and the like. The heteroarylalkyl group comprises 6 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. the alkyl moiety including alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl groups of the heteroarylalkyl group is 1 to 6 carbon atoms and the heteroaryl moiety is 5 to 14 ring atoms typically 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S with the remainder being carbon atoms. The heteroaryl moiety of the heteroarylalkyl group may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system.

The term arylene refers to an aryl group which has two covalent bonds and can be in the para meta or ortho configurations as shown in the following structures 

The terms substituted alkyl substituted aryl and substituted arylalkyl refer to alkyl aryl and arylalkyl respectively in which one or more hydrogen atoms are each independently replaced with a substituent. Typical substituents include but are not limited to X R O OR SR S NR NR NR CX CN OCN SCN N C O NCS NO NO N N NRC O R C O R C O NR SO SOH S O R OS O OR S O NR S O R OP O OR P O OR PO POH C O R C O X C S R COR CO C S OR C O SR C S SR C O NR C S NR and C NR NR where each X is independently a halogen F Cl Br or I and each R is independently H C Calkyl C Caryl C Cheterocycle protecting group or prodrug moiety. Alkylene alkenylene and alkynylene groups as described above may also be similarly substituted.

The terms heteroaryl and heterocycle refer to a ring system in which one or more ring atoms is a heteroatom e.g. nitrogen oxygen phosphate and sulfur. The heterocycle radical comprises 1 to 20 carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 82 5566 1960 .

Examples of heterocycles include by way of example and not limitation pyridyl dihydroypyridyl tetrahydropyridyl piperidyl thiazolyl tetrahydrothiophenyl sulfur oxidized tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrimidinyl furanyl thienyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl tetrazolyl benzofuranyl thianaphthalenyl indolyl indolenyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl piperidinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl 2 pyrrolidonyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydrofuranyl bis tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl bis tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl decahydroquinolinyl octahydroisoquinolinyl azocinyl triazinyl 6H 1 2 5 thiadiazinyl 2H 6H 1 5 2 dithiazinyl thienyl thianthrenyl pyranyl isobenzofuranyl chromenyl xanthenyl phenoxathinyl 2H pyrrolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl indolizinyl isoindolyl 3H indolyl 1H indazolyl purinyl 4H quinolizinyl phthalazinyl naphthyridinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl cinnolinyl pteridinyl 4aH carbazolyl carbazolyl carbolinyl phenanthridinyl acridinyl pyrimidinyl phenanthrolinyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl furazanyl phenoxazinyl isochromanyl chromanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl piperazinyl indolinyl isoindolinyl quinuclidinyl morpholinyl oxazolidinyl benzotriazolyl benzisoxazolyl oxindolyl benzoxazolinyl and isatinoyl.

By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles are bonded at the following positions position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline. Still more typically carbon bonded heterocycles include 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 5 pyridyl 6 pyridyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 3 pyrazinyl 5 pyrazinyl 6 pyrazinyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl and 5 thiazolyl.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline or 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline. Still more typically nitrogen bonded heterocycles include 1 aziridyl 1 azetedyl 1 pyrrolyl 1 imidazolyl 1 pyrazolyl and 1 piperidinyl.

The term carbocycle refers to a saturated or unsaturated ring having 3 to 7 carbon atoms as a monocycle or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicycle. Monocyclic carbocycles have 3 to 6 ring atoms still more typically 5 or 6 ring atoms. Bicyclic carbocycles have 7 to 12 ring atoms e.g. arranged as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or 9 or 10 ring atoms arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.

A C Ccarbocycle is a 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered saturated or unsaturated non aromatic carbocyclic ring. Representative C Ccarbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl 1 3 cyclohexadienyl 1 4 cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl 1 3 cycloheptadienyl 1 3 5 cycloheptatrienyl cyclooctyl and cyclooctadienyl. A C Ccarbocycle group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups including but not limited to C Calkyl O C Calkyl aryl C O R OC O R C O OR C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R S O R S O R OH halogen N NH NH R N R and CN where each R is independently selected from H C Calkyl and aryl.

A C Ccarbocyclo refers to a C Ccarbocycle group defined above wherein one of the carbocycle groups hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond.

A C Calkylene is a straight chain saturated hydrocarbon group of the formula CH . Examples of a C Calkylene include methylene ethylene propylene butylene pentylene hexylene heptylene ocytylene nonylene and decalene.

A C Cheterocycle refers to an aromatic or non arouratic C Ccarbocycle in which one to four of the ring carbon atoms are independently replaced with a heteroatom from the group consisting of O S and N. Representative examples of a C Cheterocycle include but are not limited to benzofuranyl benzothiophene indolyl benzopyrazolyl coumarinyl isoquinolinyl pyrrolyl thiophenyl furanyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl quinolinyl pyrimidinyl pyridinyl pyridonyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl and tetrazolyl. A C Cheterocycle can be unsubstituted or substituted with up to seven groups including but not limited to C Calkyl O C Calkyl aryl C O R OC O R C O OR C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R S O R S O R OH halogen N NH NH R N R and CN wherein each R is independently selected from H C Calkyl and aryl.

 C Cheterocyclo refers to a C Cheterocycle group defined above wherein one of the heterocycle group s hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond. A C Cheterocyclo can be unsubstituted or substituted with up to six groups including but not limited to C Calkyl O C Calkyl aryl C O R OC O R C O OR C O NH C O NHR C O N R NHC O R S O R S O R OH halogen N NH NH R N R and CN wherein each R is independently selected from H C Calkyl and aryl.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salt of a ligand drug conjugate or linker drug conjugate. The conjugates may contain at least one amino group and accordingly acid addition salts can be formed with the amino group. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counterion. The counterion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counterion.

The phrases pharmaceutically acceptable solvate or solvate refer to an association of one or more solvent molecules and a ligand drug conjugate or linker drug conjugate. Examples of solvents that form pharmaceutically acceptable solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

Examples of a patient or subject include but are not limited to a human rat mouse guinea pig monkey pig goat cow horse dog cat bird and fowl. In an exemplary embodiment the patient or subject is a human.

The terms treat or treatment unless otherwise indicated by context refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. Beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

In the context of cancer the term treating includes any or all of preventing growth of tumor cells cancer cells or of a tumor preventing replication of tumor cells or cancer cells lessening of overall tumor burden or decreasing the number of cancerous cells and ameliorating one or more symptoms associated with the disease.

In the context of an autoimmune disease the term treating includes any or all of preventing replication of cells associated with an autoimmune disease state including but not limited to cells that produce an autoimmune antibody lessening the autoimmune antibody burden and ameliorating one or more symptoms of an autoimmune disease.

In the context of an infectious disease the term treating includes any or all of preventing the growth multiplication or replication of the pathogen that causes the infectious disease and ameliorating one or more symptoms of an infectious disease.

The following abbreviations are used herein MMAE is mono methyl auristatin E MW 718 MMAF is N methylvaline valine dolaisoleuine dolaproine phenylalanine MW 731.5 AEVB is auristatin E valeryl benzylhydrazone acid labile linker through the C terminus of AE MW 732 DMSO is dimethylsulfoxide DMF is N N dimethylformamide HPLC is high pressure liquid chromatography THF is tetrahydrofuran and Mc OSu is maleimidocaproyl N hydroxysuccimidyl ester.

The present invention is drawn to a series of drug linker compounds and conjugate compounds containing a Drug compound D and a Linker unit comprising a Glucuronide unit W . The drug linker compounds are useful as discrete entities or can be conjugated to Ligands L in some embodiments antibodies . The Linker unit can operate to provide a suitable targeted release of a Drug compound s . Additionally some Linker Units can have multiple attached drugs e.g. one to four attached drugs can be represented as LU D .

In one group of embodiments the ligand drug conjugate compounds generally comprise the following formula I LA W Y D I

In some embodiments a is 0 or 1 w is 1 and y is 0 1 or 2. In some embodiments a is 0 or 1 w is 1 and y is 0 or 1. In some embodiments a is 0 w is 1 and y is 0. In some embodiments a is 0 or 1 w is 1 and y is 1. In some embodiments a is 1 w is 1 and y is 0. In some embodiments a is 1 w is 1 and y is 1. In some embodiments p is 1 to 10 1 to 8 1 to 6 1 to 4 6 4 or 2. Each of these units is described in more detail herein.

A Linker unit LU is a bifunctional compound which can be used to link a Drug unit and a Ligand unit to form a Ligand Drug Conjugate compound also referred to as a Ligand Linker Drug conjugate compound to a Drug unit to form a Linker Drug unit or which is useful in the formation of immunoconjugates. In some embodiments the Linker unit has the formula A W Y 

In some embodiments a is 0 or 1 w is 1 and y is 0 1 or 2. In some embodiments a is 0 or 1 w is 1 and y is 0 or 1.

The Glucuronide unit W links a Stretcher unit to a Spacer unit if the Stretcher and Spacer units are present links a Stretcher unit to the Drug moiety if the Spacer unit is absent and links the Ligand unit to the Drug unit if the Stretcher and Spacer units are absent. The Glucuronide unit includes a site that can be cleaved by a glucuronidase enzyme.

In some embodiments the Glucuronide unit comprises a sugar moiety Su linked via a glycoside bond O to a self immolative group Z of the formula Su O Z IIa The glycosidic bond O is typically a glucuronidase cleavage site such as a bond cleavable by human lysosomal glucuronidase.

In the context of a Glucuronide unit the term self immolative group refers to a di or tri functional chemical moiety that is capable of covalently linking together two or three spaced chemical moieties Le. the sugar moiety via a glycosidic bond a Drug unit directly or indirectly via a Spacer unit and in some embodiments a Ligand unit directly or indirectly via a Stretcher unit into a stable molecule. The self immolative group will spontaneously separate from the first chemical moiety e.g. the Spacer or Drug unit if its bond to the Sugar moiety is cleaved.

In some embodiments the Sugar moiety Su is cyclic hexose such as a pyranose or a cyclic pentose such as a furanose. In some embodiments the pyranose is a glucuronide or hexose. The Sugar moiety is usually in the D conformation. In a specific embodiment the pyranose is a D glucuronide moiety i.e. D glucuronic acid linked to the self immolative group Z via a glycosidic bond that is cleavable by glucuronidase . In some embodiments the sugar moiety is unsubstituted e.g. a naturally occurring cyclic hexose or cyclic pentose . In other embodiments the sugar moiety can be a substituted D glucuronide i.e. glucuronic acid substituted with one or more group such hydrogen hydroxyl halogen sulfur nitrogen or lower alkyl.

In some embodiments the self immolative group Z is a p aminobenzyl alcohol PAB unit as further described herein. Other suitable self immolative groups are known in the art.

In some embodiments the self immolative group Z is covalently linked to the Sugar moiety to the Drug unit directly or indirectly via the Spacer unit s and to the Ligand unit directly or indirectly via the Stretcher unit s . In some embodiments a Drug Linker conjugate has the following formula 

In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound e.g. an antibody drug conjugate ADC comprising the Glucuronide unit has one of the following formulae 

In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound comprising the Glucuronide unit has the following formula 

In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound comprising the Glucuronide unit has the following formula 

In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound comprising the Glucuronide unit has the following formula 

In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound comprising the Glucuronide unit has the following formula 

In another group of embodiments the Ligand unit is linked directly or indirectly to the Sugar moiety S which is linked to the self immolative group Z which is linked directly or indirectly to the Drug unit according to the following formula. L A Su O Z Y D IIn wherein A a Su O Z w Y y D and L are defined as described above. For example the Sugar moiety Su can be linked directly to the Ligand unit or indirectly via a Stretcher unit. The self immolative group Z can be linked directly to the Drug unit or indirectly via a Spacer unit.

In related embodiments a Drug Linker compound has the following formula A Su O Z Y D IIo wherein A a Su O Z w Y y and D are defined as above. Typically from 1 to 20 of such Drug Linker compounds can be linked to a Ligand unit. The Stretcher Unit

The Stretcher unit A when present is capable of linking a Ligand unit to a Glucuronide unit W . In this regard a Ligand unit L has a functional group that can form a bond with a functional group of a Stretcher. Useful functional groups that can be present on a Ligand unit either naturally or via chemical manipulation include but are not limited to sulfhydryl SH amino hydroxyl carboxy the anomeric hydroxyl group of a carbohydrate and carboxyl. In some embodiments the Ligand unit functional groups are sulfhydryl and or amino. Sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reduction of an intramolecular disulfide bond of a Ligand. Sulfhydryl groups also can be generated by reaction of an amino group of a lysine moiety of a Ligand using 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent or another sulfhydryl generating reagent.

In one embodiment the Stretcher unit forms a bond with a sulfur atom of the Ligand unit. The sulfur atom can be derived from a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand. Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas IIIa and IIIb wherein L W Y D w and y are as defined above and Ris direct bond or selected from C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclo O C Calkyl arylene C Calkylene arylene arylene C Calkylene C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclo C Ccarbocyclo C Calkylene C Cheterocyclo C Calkylene C Cheterocyclo C Cheterocyclo C Calkylene CHCHO CHCHO CH and CHCHO CH CH and r is an integer ranging from 1 10. It is to be understood from all the exemplary embodiments of Formula I such as III VI that even where not denoted expressly from 1 to 20 drug moieties are linked to a Ligand p 1 20 .

In another embodiment the Stretcher unit is linked to the Ligand unit via a disulfide bond between a sulfur atom of the Ligand unit and a sulfur atom of the Stretcher unit. A representative Stretcher unit of this embodiment is depicted within the square brackets of Formula IV wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above. LS R C O W Y D IV

In yet another embodiment the reactive group of the Stretcher contains a reactive site that can form a bond with a primary or secondary amino group of a Ligand. Examples of these reactive sites include but are not limited to activated esters such as succinimide esters 4 nitrophenyl esters pentafluorophenyl esters tetrafluorophenyl esters anhydrides acid chlorides sulfonyl chlorides isocyanates and isothiocyanates. Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas Va and Vb wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above 

In some embodiments the reactive group of the Stretcher contains a reactive site that is reactive to a modified carbohydrate CHO group that can be present on a Ligand. For example a carbohydrate can be mildly oxidized using a reagent such as sodium periodate and the resulting CHO unit of the oxidized carbohydrate can be condensed with a Stretcher that contains a functionality such as a hydrazide an oxime a primary or secondary amine a hydrazine a thiosemicarbazone a hydrazine carboxylate and an arylhydrazide such as those described by Kaneko et. al. 1991 Bioconjugate Chem. 2 133 41. According to another example a modified carbohydrate can be prepared by reductive amination. Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas VIa VIb and VIc wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above.

The Spacer unit Y when present links a Glucuronide unit to the Drug moiety. In some embodiments the Spacer unit s is a self immolative spacer. In this context the term self immolative spacer refers to a bifunctional chemical moiety that is capable of covalently linking together two spaced chemical moieties into a normally stable tripartite molecule. It will spontaneously separate from the second chemical moiety if its bond to the first moiety is cleaved.

In some embodiments Y is linked to Ww via the methylene carbon atom of the self immolative group and linked connected directly to D via a carbonate carbamate or ether group. Without being bound by any particular theory or mechanism Scheme 1 depicts a mechanism of Drug release of a glucuronide based linker which is attached directly to D via a carbonate group.

In some embodiments Yy is a p aminobenzyl alcohol PAB unit see e.g. Schemes 1 and 2 infra whose phenylene portion is substituted with Qm wherein Q is C1 C8 alkyl O C1 C8 alkyl halogen nitro or cyano and m is an integer ranging from 0 4. In another embodiment Yy can be a carbonate group.

Other examples of self immolative spacers include but are not limited to aromatic compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2 aminoimidazol 5 methanol derivatives see e.g. Hay et. al. 1999 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9 2237 and ortho or para aminobenzylacetals. Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis such as substituted and unsubstituted 4 aminobutyric acid amides see e.g. Rodrigues et. al. 1995 Chemistry Biology 2 223 appropriately substituted bicyclo 2.2.1 and bicyclo 2.2.2 ring systems see e.g. Storm et al. 1972 J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 94 5815 and 2 aminophenylpropionic acid amides see e.g. Amsberry et. al. 1990 J. Org. Chem. 55 5867 . Elimination of amine containing drugs that are substituted at the a position of glycine see e.g. Kingsbury et al. 1984 J. Med. Chem. 27 1447 are also examples of self immolative spacers.

In one embodiment the Spacer unit is a branched bis hydroxymethyl styrene BHMS unit as depicted in the following Scheme which can be used to incorporate and release multiple drugs.

Other suitable Spacer units are disclosed in Published U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0238649 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

A Ligand unit includes within its scope any molecule that binds or reactively associates or complexes with a receptor antigen or other receptive moiety associated with a given target cell or cell population. In one aspect the Ligand unit acts to deliver a Drug unit infra to the particular target cell or cell population with which the Ligand unit reacts. Such Ligand units include but are not limited to large molecular weight proteins such as for example full length antibodies antibody fragments smaller molecular weight proteins polypeptides or peptides lectins glycoproteins non peptides vitamins nutrient transport molecules and any other cell binding molecule or substance.

Useful non immunoreactive proteins polypeptides or peptide ligands include but are not limited to transferrin epidermal growth factors EGF bombesin gastrin gastrin releasing peptide platelet derived growth factor IL 2 IL 6 transforming growth factors TGF such as TGF and TGF vaccinia growth factor VGF insulin and insulin like growth factors I and II lectins somatostatin and apoprotein from low density lipoprotein.

Useful polyclonal antibodies are heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules such as those derived from the sera of immunized animals. Various procedures known in the art may be used for the production of polyclonal antibodies to an antigen of interest. For example for the production of polyclonal antibodies various host animals can be immunized by injection with an antigen of interest or derivative thereof including but not limited to rabbits mice rats and guinea pigs. Various adjuvants can be used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species and including but not limited to Freund s complete and incomplete adjuvant mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions peptides oil emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins dinitrophenol and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG bacille Calmette Guerin and corynebacterium parvum. Such adjuvants are also well known in the art.

Useful monoclonal antibodies are homogeneous populations of antibodies to a particular antigenic determinant e.g. a cell antigen such as a cancer or autoimmune cell antigen a viral antigen a microbial antigen a protein a peptide a carbohydrate a chemical a nucleic acid or antigen binding fragments thereof. A monoclonal antibody mAb to an antigen of interest can be prepared by using any technique known in the art. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by K hler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 . Such antibodies may be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG IgM IgE IgA and IgD and any subclass thereof. The hybridoma producing the mAbs of use in this invention may be cultivated in vitro or in vivo.

Useful monoclonal antibodies include but are not limited to human monoclonal antibodies humanized monoclonal antibodies chimeric monoclonal antibodies and functionally active antibody fragments. Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of numerous techniques known in the art see e.g. Teng et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 80 7308 7312 Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 79 Olsson et al. 1982 Meth. Enzymol. 92 3 16 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 939 598 and 5 770 429 .

Additionally recombinant antibodies such as chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies comprising both human and non human portions which can be made using standard recombinant DNA techniques are useful antibodies. See e.g. Cabilly et a. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Boss et a. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 397 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non human species having one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs from the non human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule. See e.g. Queen U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art for example using methods described in International Publication No. WO 87 02671 European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187 European Patent Publication No. 0 171 496 European Patent Publication No. 0 173 494 International Publication No. WO 86 01533 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 European Patent Publication No. 012 023 Berter et al 1988 Science 240 1041 1043 Liu et a. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 3439 3443 Liu et al. 1987 J. Immunol. 139 3521 3526 Sun et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 214 218 Nishimura et al. 1987 Cancer. Res. 47 999 1005 Wood et al. 1985 Nature 314 446 449 Shaw et a. 1988 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 80 1553 1559 Morrison 1985 Science 229 1202 1207 Oi et al. 1986 BioTechniques 4 214 U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Jones et a. 1986 Nature 321 552 525 Verhoeyan et a. 1988 Science 239 1534 and Beidler et al. 1988 J. Immunol. 141 4053 4060 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Completely human antibodies can be produced using transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chains genes but which can express human heavy and light chain genes. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen e.g. all or a portion of a polypeptide of the invention. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained using conventional hybridoma technology. The human immunoglobulin transgenes harbored by the transgenic mice rearrange during B cell differentiation and subsequently undergo class switching and somatic mutation. Thus using such a technique it is possible to produce therapeutically useful IgG IgA IgM and IgE antibodies. For an overview of this technology for producing human antibodies see e.g. Lonberg and Huszar 1995 Int. Rev. Immunol. 13 65 93 . For a detailed discussion of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 and 5 545 806 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Other human antibodies can be obtained commercially from for example Abgenix Inc. Freemont Calif. and Medarex Sunnyvale Calif .

Completely human antibodies that recognize a selected epitope can be generated using a technique referred to as guided selection. In this approach a selected non human monoclonal antibody e.g. a mouse antibody is used to guide the selection of a completely human antibody recognizing the same epitope. see e.g. Jespers et al. 1994 Biotechnology 12 899 903 . Human antibodies also can be produced using various techniques known in the art including phage display libraries Hoogenboom and Winter 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 227 381 Marks et al. 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 Quan and Carter 2002 The rise of monoclonal antibodies as therapeutics In Anti IgE and Allergic Disease Jardieu and Fick Jr. eds. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. Chapter 20 pp. 427 469 .

In some embodiments the antibody is monospecific. The antibody can also be a bispecific antibody. Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs where the two chains have different specificities see e.g. Milstein et al. 1983 Nature 305 537 539 . Because of the random assortment of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains these hybridomas quadromas produce a potential mixture of 10 different antibody molecules of which only one has the correct bispecific structure. Similar procedures are disclosed in International Publication No. WO 93 08829 and in Traunecker et al. 1991 EMBO J. 10 3655 3659.

According to a different approach antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities antibody antigen combining sites are fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences. The fusion typically is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region comprising at least part of the hinge C2 and C3 domains. It is preferred to have the first heavy chain constant region C1 containing the site necessary for light chain binding present in at least one of the fusions. Nucleic acids with sequences encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and if desired the immunoglobulin light chain are inserted into separate expression vectors and are co transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is however possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance.

For example the bispecific antibodies can have a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm and a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pair providing a second binding specificity in the other arm. This asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations as the presence of an immunoglobulin light chain in only one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of separation International Publication No. WO 94 04690 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

For further details for generating bispecific antibodies see for example Suresh et al. 1996 Methods in Enzymology 121 210 Rodrigues et al. 1993 J. Immunology 151 6954 6961 Carter et al. 1992 Bio Technology 10 163 167 Carter et al. 1995 J. Hematotherapy 4 463 470 Merchant et al. 1998 Nature Biotechnology 16 677 681. Using such techniques bispecific antibodies can be prepared for use in the treatment or prevention of disease as defined herein.

Bifunctional antibodies are also described in European Patent Publication No. 0 105 360. As disclosed in this reference hybrid or bifunctional antibodies can be derived either biologically e.g. by cell fusion techniques or chemically especially with cross linking agents or disulfide bridge forming reagents and may comprise whole antibodies or fragments thereof. Methods for obtaining such hybrid antibodies are disclosed for example in International Publication WO 83 03679 and European Patent Publication No. 0 217 577 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The antibody also can be a functionally active fragment derivative or analog of an antibody that immuno specifically binds to a desired target antigen e.g. a cancer cell antigen a viral antigen or a microbial antigen or other antibodies bound to a target cell s or matrix. In this regard functionally active means that the fragment derivative or analog is able to elicit anti anti idiotype antibodies that recognize the same antigen that the antibody from which the fragment derivative or analog is derived recognized. In an exemplary embodiment the antigenicity of the idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule can be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR sequences that are C terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen synthetic peptides containing the CDR sequences can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in the art e.g. the BIAcore assay see e.g. Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. Kabat et al. 1980 J. Immunology 125 3 961 969 .

Other useful antibodies include fragments of antibodies such as but not limited to F ab fragments Fab fragments Fab fragments Fvs single chain antibodies SCAs e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 Bird 1988 Science 242 423 42 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 and Ward et al. 1989 Nature 334 544 54 scFv sc Fv Fc FvdsFv minibodies diabodies triabodies tetrabodies and any other molecule comprising CDRs and that have the same specificity as the antibody.

In other embodiments the antibody is a fusion protein of an antibody or a functionally active fragment thereof for example in which the antibody is fused via a covalent bond e.g. a peptide bond at either the N terminus or the C terminus to an amino acid sequence of another protein or portion thereof typically at least a 10 20 or 50 amino acid portion of the protein that is not the antibody. In some embodiments the antibody or fragment thereof can be covalently linked to the other protein at the N terminus of the constant domain.

Antibodies can also include analogs and derivatives that are either modified e.g. by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment permits the antibody to retain its antigen binding immunospecificity. For example the derivatives and analogs of the antibodies include those that have been further modified e.g. by glycosylation acetylation pegylation phosphorylation amidation derivatization by known protecting blocking groups proteolytic cleavage linkage to a cellular antibody unit or other protein etc. Any of numerous chemical modifications can be carried out by known techniques including but not limited to specific chemical cleavage acetylation formylation metabolic synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin or the like. Additionally the analog or derivative can contain one or more unnatural amino acids.

In specific embodiments it may be desirable to improve the binding affinity and or other biological properties of the antibody. See e.g. U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2006 0003412 and 2006 0008882. Amino acid sequence variants of the antibodies are prepared by introducing appropriate nucleotide changes into the antibody nucleic acid or by peptide synthesis. Such modifications include for example deletions from and or insertions into and or substitutions of residues within the amino acid sequences of the antibody. Any combination of deletion insertion and substitution is made to arrive at the final construct provided that the final construct possesses the desired characteristics. The amino acid changes also may alter post translational processes of the antibody such as changing the number or position of glycosylation sites.

A useful method for identification of certain residues or regions of the antibody that are favored locations for mutagenesis is called alanine scanning mutagenesis as described by Cunningham and Wells 1989 Science 244 1081 1085 . Here a residue or group of target residues are identified e.g. charged residues such as arg asp his lys and glu and replaced by a neutral or negatively charged amino acid typically alanine or polyalanine to affect the interaction of the amino acids with antigen. Those amino acid locations demonstrating functional sensitivity to the substitutions then are refined by introducing further or other variants at or for the sites of substitution. Thus while the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation is predetermined the nature of the mutation per se need not be predetermined. For example to analyze the performance of a mutation at a given site alanine scanning or random mutagenesis is conducted at the target codon or region and the expressed antibody variants are screened for the desired activity.

Amino acid sequence insertions include amino and or carboxyl terminal fusions ranging in length from one residue to polypeptides containing a hundred or more residues as well as intrasequence insertions of single or multiple amino acid residues. Examples of terminal insertions include an antibody with an N terminal methionyl residue or the antibody fused to a cytotoxic polypeptide.

Another type of variant is an amino acid substitution variant. These variants have at least one amino acid residue in the antibody molecule replaced by a different residue. The sites of greatest interest for substitutional mutagenesis include the hypervariable regions but framework region alterations are also contemplated.

Substantial modifications in the biological properties of the antibody are accomplished by selecting substitutions that differ significantly in their effect on maintaining a the structure of the polypeptide backbone in the area of the substitution for example as a sheet or helical conformation b the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site or c the bulk of the side chain. Naturally occurring residues are divided into groups based on common side chain properties 

Non conservative substitutions will entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for another class.

A particularly type of substitutional variant involves substituting one or more hypervariable region residues of a parent antibody e.g. a humanized or human antibody . Generally the resulting variant s selected for further development will have improved biological properties relative to the parent antibody from which they are generated. A convenient way for generating such substitutional variants involves affinity maturation using phage display. Briefly several hypervariable region sites e.g. 6 7 sites are mutated to generate all possible amino substitutions at each site. The antibody variants thus generated are displayed in a monovalent fashion from filamentous phage particles as fusions to the gene III product of M13 packaged within each particle. The phage displayed variants are then screened for their biological activity e.g. binding affinity . In order to identify candidate hypervariable region sites for modification alanine scanning mutagenesis can be performed to identify hypervariable region residues contributing significantly to antigen binding. Alternatively or additionally. it may be beneficial to analyze a crystal structure of the antigen antibody complex to identify contact points between the antibody and the antigen. Such contact residues and neighboring residues are candidates for substitution according to the techniques elaborated herein. Once such variants are generated the panel of variants is subjected to screening and antibodies with superior properties in one or more relevant assays may be selected for further development.

It may be desirable to modify the antibody with respect to effector function e.g. so as to enhance antigen dependent cell mediated cyotoxicity ADCC and or complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC of the antibody. This may be achieved by introducing one or more amino acid substitutions in an Fc region of the antibody. Alternatively or additionally cysteine residue s may be introduced in the Fc region thereby allowing interchain disulfide bond formation in this region. The homodimeric antibody thus generated may have improved internalization capability and or increased complement mediated cell killing and antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC . See e.g. Caron et al. 1992 J. Exp Med. 176 1191 1195 and Shopes 1992 J. Immunol. 148 2918 2922. Homodimeric antibodies with enhanced anti tumor activity may also be prepared using heterobifunctional cross linkers as described in Wolff et al. 1993 Cancer Research 53 2560 2565. Alternatively an antibody can be engineered which has dual Fc regions and may thereby have enhanced complement lysis and ADCC capabilities. See e.g. Stevenson et al. 1989 Anti Cancer Drug Design 3 219 230.

To increase the serum half life of the antibody one may incorporate a salvage receptor binding epitope into the antibody especially an antibody fragment as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 739 277 for example. As used herein the term salvage receptor binding epitope refers to an epitope of the Fc region of an IgG molecule e.g. IgG IgG IgG or IgG that is responsible for increasing the in vivo serum half life of the IgG molecule.

Antibodies may be glycosylated at conserved positions in their constant regions see e.g. Jefferis and Lund 1997 Chem. Immunol. 65 111 128 Wright and Morrison 1997 TibTECH 15 26 32 . The oligosaccharide side chains of the immunoglobulins affect the protein s function see e.g. Boyd et al. 1996 Mol. Immunol 32 1311 1318 Wittwe and Howard 1990 Biochem. 29 4175 4180 and the intramolecular interaction between portions of the glycoprotein which can affect the conformation and presented three dimensional surface of the glycoprotein see e.g. Jefferis and Lund supra Wyss and Wagner 1996 Current Opin. Biotech. 7 409 416 . Oligosaccharides may also serve to target a given glycoprotein to certain molecules based upon specific recognition structures. For example it has been reported that in agalactosylated IgG the oligosaccharide moiety flips out of the inter C2 space and terminal N acetylglucosamine residues become available to bind mannose binding protein see e.g. Malhotra et al. 1995 Nature Med. 1 237 243 . Removal by glycopeptidase of the oligosaccharides from CAMPATH 1H a recombinant humanized murine monoclonal IgG1 antibody which recognizes the CDw52 antigen of human lymphocytes produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells resulted in a complete reduction in complement mediated lysis CMCL Boyd et al. 1996 Mol. Immunol. 32 1311 1318 while selective removal of sialic acid residues using neuraminidase resulted in no loss of CMCL. Glycosylation of antibodies has also been reported to affect antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC . In particular CHO cells with tetracycline regulated expression of 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII a glycosyltransferase catalyzing formation of bisecting GIcNAc was reported to have improved ADCC activity see e.g. Umana et al. 1999 Mature Biotech. 17 176 180 .

Glycosylation of antibodies is typically either N linked or O linked. N linked refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tripeptide sequences asparagine X serine and asparagine X threonine where X is any amino acid except proline are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus the presence of either of these tripeptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation site. O linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N acetylgalactosamine galactose or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid most commonly serine or threonine although 5 hydroxyproline or 5 hydroxylysine may also be used.

Glycosylation variants of antibodies are variants in which the glycosylation pattern of an antibody is altered. By altering is meant deleting one or more carbohydrate moieties found in the antibody adding one or more carbohydrate moieties to the antibody changing the composition of glycosylation glycosylation pattern the extent of glycosylation or the like.

Addition of glycosylation sites to the antibody is conveniently accomplished by altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of the above described tripeptide sequences for N linked glycosylation sites . The alteration may also be made by the addition of or substitution by one or more serine or threonine residues to the sequence of the original antibody for O linked glycosylation sites . Similarly removal of glycosylation sites can be accomplished by amino acid alteration within the native glycosylation sites of the antibody.

The amino acid sequence is usually altered by altering the underlying nucleic acid sequence. These methods include but are not limited to isolation from a natural source in the case of naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants or preparation by oligonucleotide mediated or site directed mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared variant or a non variant version of the antibody.

The glycosylation including glycosylation pattern of antibodies may also be altered without altering the amino acid sequence or the underlying nucleotide sequence. Glycosylation largely depends on the host cell used to express the antibody. Since the cell type used for expression of recombinant glycoproteins e.g. antibodies as potential therapeutics is rarely the native cell significant variations in the glycosylation pattern of the antibodies can be expected. See e.g. Hse et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 9062 9070. In addition to the choice of host cells factors which affect glycosylation during recombinant production of antibodies include growth mode media formulation culture density oxygenation pH purification schemes and the like. Various methods have been proposed to alter the glycosylation pattern achieved in a particular host organism including introducing or overexpressing certain enzymes involved in oligosaccharide production see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 047 335 5 510 261 and 5 278 299 . Glycosylation or certain types of glycosylation can be enzymatically removed from the glycoprotein for example using endoglycosidase H Endo H . In addition the recombinant host cell can be genetically engineered e.g. make defective in processing certain types of polysaccharides. These and similar techniques are well known in the art.

The glycosylation structure of antibodies can be readily analyzed by conventional techniques of carbohydrate analysis including lectin chromatography NMR mass spectrometry HPLC GPC monosaccharide compositional analysis sequential enzymatic digestion and HPAEC PAD which uses high pH anion exchange chromatography to separate oligosaccharides based on charge. Methods for releasing oligosaccharides for analytical purposes are also known and include without limitation enzymatic treatment commonly performed using peptide N glycosidase F endo galactosidase elimination using harsh alkaline environment to release mainly O linked structures and chemical methods using anhydrous hydrazine to release both N and O linked oligosaccharides.

The antibodies also can have modifications e.g. substitutions deletions or additions in amino acid residues that interact with Fc receptors. In particular antibodies include antibodies having modifications in amino acid residues identified as involved in the interaction between the anti Fc domain and the FcRn receptor see e.g. International Publication No. WO 97 34631 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

Antibodies immuno specific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially for example from commercial companies or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it the literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

In a specific embodiment known antibodies for the treatment or prevention of cancer can be used. Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as erg. recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it the literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

Virtually any target protein can be targeted by an antibody including any target protein which expression is correlated with expression on cells of a cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor. In some embodiments the antigen is a tumor associated antigen such as a polypeptide protein or other molecule that is specifically expressed on the surface of one or more particular type s of cancer cell as compared to on one or more normal non cancerous cell s . Often such tumor associated antigens are more abundantly expressed on the surface of the cancer cells as compared to on the surface of the non cancerous cells. The identification of such tumor associated cell surface antigens has given rise to the ability to specifically target cancer cells for destruction via antibody based therapies.

Suitable target proteins include human tumor antigens recognized by T cells Robbins and Kawakami 1996 Curr. Opin. Immunol 8 628 636 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety melanocyte lineage proteins including gp 100 MART 1 MelanA TRP 1 gp75 tyrosinase Tumor specific widely shared antigens MAGE 1 MAGE 3 BAGE GAGE 1 GAGE 1 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase V p15 Tumor specific mutated antigens beta catenin MUM 1 CDK4 Nonmelanoma antigens for breast ovarian cervical and pancreatic carcinoma HER 2 neu human papillomavirus E6 E7 MUC 1 cancer antigens such as KS 1 4 pan carcinoma antigen Perez and Walker 1990 J. Immunol. 142 3662 3667 Bumal 1988 Hybridoma 7 4 407 415 ovarian carcinoma antigen CA125 Yu et al. 1991 Cancer Res 51 2 468 475 prostatic acid phosphate Tailor et al. 1990 Nucl. Acids Res. 18 16 4928 prostate specific antigen Henttu and Vihko 1989 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 160 2 903 910 Israeli et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 227 230 melanoma associated antigen p97 Estin et al. 1989 J. Natl. Cancer Instit. 81 6 445 446 melanoma antigen gp75 Vijayasardahl et al. 1990 J. Exp. Med. 171 4 1375 1380 high molecular weight melanoma antigen HMW MM Natali et al. 1987 Cancer 59 55 63 Mittelman et al. 1990 J. Clin. Invest 86 2136 2144 prostate specific membrane antigen carcinoembryonic antigen CEA Foon et al. 1994 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 13 294 polymorphic epithelial mucin antigen human milk fat globule antigen a colorectal tumor associated antigen such as CEA TAG 72 Yokata et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 3402 3408 CO 17 1A Ragnhammar et al. 1993 Int. J. Cancer 53 751 758 GICA 19 9 Herlyn et al. 1982 J. Clin. Immunol 2 135 CTA 1 and LEA Burkitt s lymphoma antigen 38.13 CD19 Ghetie et al. 1994 Blood 83 1329 1336 human B lymphoma antigen CD20 Reff et al. 1994 Blood 83 435 445 CD33 Sgouros et al. 1993 J. Nucl. Med. 34 422 430 melanoma specific antigens such as ganglioside GD2 Saleh et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 3390 3398 ganglioside GD3 Shitara et al. 1993 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 36 373 380 ganglioside GM2 Livingston et al. 1994 J. Clin. Oncol. 12 1036 1044 ganglioside GM3 Hoon et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 5244 5250 tumor specific transplantation type of cell surface antigen TSTA such as virally induced tumor antigens including T antigen DNA tumor viruses and envelope antigens of RNA tumor viruses oncofetal antigen alpha fetoprotein such as CEA of colon bladder tumor oncofetal antigen Hellstrom et al. 1985 Cancer. Res. 45 2210 2188 differentiation antigen such as human lung carcinoma antigen L6 L20 Hellstrom et al. 1986 Cancer Res. 46 3917 3923 antigens of fibrosarcoma human leukemia T cell antigen Gp37 Bhattacharya Chatterjee et al. 1988 J. Immunol. 141 1398 1403 neoglycoprotein sphingolipids breast cancer antigen such as EGFR Epidermal growth factor receptor HER2 antigen p185HER2 polymorphic epithelial mucin PEM Hilkens et al. 1992 Trends in Bio. Chem. Sci. 17 359 malignant human lymphocyte antigen APO 1 Bernhard et al. 1989 Science 245 301 304 differentiation antigen Feizi 1985 Nature 314 53 57 such as I antigen found in fetal erythrocytes primary endoderm I antigen found in adult erythrocytes and preimplantation embryos I Ma found in gastric adenocarcinomas M18 M39 found in breast epithelium SSEA 1 found in myeloid cells VEP8 VEP9 Myl VIM D5 D156 22 found in colorectal cancer TRA 1 85 blood group H C14 found in colonic adenocarcinoma F3 found in lung adenocarcinoma AH6 found in gastric cancer Y hapten Ley found in embryonal carcinoma cells TL5 blood group A EGF receptor found in A431 cells E1 series blood group B found in pancreatic cancer FC10.2 found in embryonal carcinoma cells gastric adenocarcinoma antigen CO 514 blood group Lea found in Adenocarcinoma NS 10 found in adenocarcinomas CO 43 blood group Leb G49 found in EGF receptor of A431 cells MH2 blood group ALeb Ley found in colonic adenocarcinoma 19.9 found in colon cancer gastric cancer mucins T5A7 found in myeloid cells R24 found in melanoma 4.2 GD3 D1.1 OFA 1 GM2 OFA 2 GD2 and M1 22 25 8 found in embryonal carcinoma cells and SSEA 3 and SSEA 4.

In some embodiments the antibody is useful for the treatment of cancer. Examples of antibodies available for the treatment of cancer include but are not limited to R rituximab Genentech which is a chimeric anti CD20 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with non Hodgkin s lymphoma OVAREX AltaRex Corporation Mass. which is a murine antibody for the treatment of ovarian cancer PANOREX Glaxo Wellcome NC which is a murine IgGantibody for the treatment of colorectal cancer CETUXIMAB ERBITUX Imclone Systems Inc. NY which is an anti EGFR IgG chimeric antibody for the treatment of epidermal growth factor positive cancers such as head and neck cancer VITAXIN Medimmune Inc. MD which is a humanized antibody for the treatment of sarcoma CAMPATH I H Leukosite Mass. which is a humanized IgGantibody for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Smart M195 Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a humanized anti CD33 IgG antibody for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia AML LYMPHOCIDE Immunomedics Inc. NJ which is a humanized anti CD22 IgG antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma Smart ID10 Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a humanized anti HLA DR antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma Oncolym Techniclone Inc. CA which is a radiolabeled murine anti HLA Dr10 antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma ALLOMUNE BioTransplant CA which is a humanized anti CD2 mAb for the treatment of Hodgkin s Disease or non Hodgkin s lymphoma AVASTIN Genentech Inc. CA which is an anti VEGF humanized antibody for the treatment of lung and colorectal cancers Epratuzamab Immunomedics Inc. NJ and Amgen CA which is an anti CD22 antibody for the treatment of non Hodgkin s lymphoma and CEAcide Immunomedics NJ which is a humanized anti CEA antibody for the treatment of colorectal cancer.

In some embodiments the antibody is an antibody against the following antigens where exemplary cancers are indicated in parentheses CA125 ovarian CA15 3 carcinomas CA19 9 carcinomas L6 carcinomas Lewis Y carcinomas Lewis X carcinomas alpha fetoprotein carcinomas CA 242 colorectal placental alkaline phosphatase carcinomas prostate specific membrane antigen prostate EphB2 TMEFF2 prostatic acid phosphatase prostate epidermal growth factor carcinomas MAGE 1 carcinomas MAGE 2 carcinomas MAGE 3 carcinomas MAGE 4 carcinomas anti transferrin receptor carcinomas p97 melanoma MUC1 KLH breast cancer CEA colorectal gp100 melanoma MART1 melanoma prostate specific antigen prostate IL 2 receptor T cell leukemia and lymphomas CD20 non Hodgkin s lymphoma CD52 leukemia CD33 leukemia CD22 lymphoma human chorionic gonadotropin carcinoma CD38 multiple myeloma CD40 lymphoma mucin carcinomas P21 carcinomas MPG melanoma and Neu oncogene product carcinomas . Some specific useful antibodies include but are not limited to BR96 mAb Trail et. al. 1993 Science 261 212 215 BR64 Trail et al. 1997 Cancer Research 57 100 105 mAbs against the CD40 antigen such as S2C6 mAb Francisco et al. 2000 Cancer Res. 60 3225 3231 or other anti CD40 antibodies such as those disclosed in U.S Patent Publication Nos. 2003 0211100 and 2002 0142358 mAbs against the CD70 antigen such as 1F6 mAb and 2F2 mAb and mAbs against the CD30 antigen such as AC10 Bowen et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 5896 5906 Wahl et al. 2002 Cancer Res. 62 13 3736 42 or MDX 0060 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0006215 . Other internalizing antibodies that bind to tumor associated antigens can be used and have been reviewed Franke et al. 2000 Cancer Biother. Radiopharm. 15 459 76 Murray 2000 Semin. Oncol. 27 64 70 Breitling F. and Dubel S. Recombinant Antibodies John Wiley and Sons New York 1998 .

In another specific embodiment known antibodies for the treatment or prevention of an autoimmune disease are used. Antibodies immunospecific for an antigen of a cell that is responsible for producing autoimmune antibodies can be obtained from any organization e.g. a university scientist or a company or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques.

Useful antibodies are immunospecific for the treatment of autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to anti nuclear antibody anti ds DNA antibody anti ss DNA antibody anti cardiolipin antibody IgM IgG anti phospholipid antibody IgM IgG anti SM antibody anti mitochondrial antibody anti thyroid antibody anti microsomal antibody anti thyroglobulin antibody anti SCL 70 antibody anti Jo antibody anti URNP antibody anti La SSB antibody anti SSA antibody anti SSB antibody anti perital cells antibody anti histone antibody anti RNP antibody anti C ANCA antibody anti P ANCA antibody anti centromere antibody anti Fibrillarin antibody and anti GBM antibody.

In certain embodiments useful antibodies can bind to a receptor or a receptor complex expressed on a target cell. The receptor or receptor complex can comprise an immunoglobulin gene superfamily member a TNF receptor superfamily member an integrin a cytokine receptor a chemokine receptor a major histocompatibility protein a lectin or a complement control protein. Non limiting examples of suitable immunoglobulin superfamily members are CD2 CD3 CD4 CD8 CD19 CD22 CD28 CD79 CD90 CD152 CTLA 4 PD 1 and ICOS. Non limiting examples of suitable TNF receptor superfamily members are CD27 CD40 CD95 Fas CD134 OX40 CD137 4 1BB TNF R1 TNFR 2 RANK TACI BCMA osteoprotegerin Apo2 TRAIL R1 TRAIL R2 TRAIL R3 TRAIL R4 and APO 3. Non limiting examples of suitable integrins are CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 CD29 CD41 CD49a CD49b CD49c CD49d CD49e CD49f CD103 and CD104. Non limiting examples of suitable lectins are C type S type and I type lectin.

In an embodiment the ligand binds to an activated lymphocyte that is associated with an autoimmune disease.

In another specific embodiment useful ligands immunospecific for a viral or a microbial antigen are monoclonal antibodies. As used herein the term viral antigen includes but is not limited to any viral peptide polypeptide protein e.g. HIV gp120 HIV nef RSV F glycoprotein influenza virus neuraminidase influenza virus hemagglutinin HTLV tax herpes simplex virus glycoprotein e.g. gB gC gD and gE and hepatitis B surface antigen that is capable of eliciting an immune response. As used herein the term microbial antigen includes but is not limited to any microbial peptide polypeptide protein saccharide polysaccharide or lipid molecule e.g. a bacterial fungi pathogenic protozoa or yeast polypeptide including e.g. LPS and capsular polysaccharide 5 8 that is capable of eliciting an immune response.

Antibodies immuno specific for a viral or microbial antigen can be obtained commercially or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies that are immunospecific for a viral or microbial antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

In a specific embodiment useful ligands are those that are useful for the treatment or prevention of viral or microbial infection in accordance with the methods disclosed herein. Examples of antibodies available useful for the treatment of viral infection or microbial infection include but are not limited to SYNAGIS Medimmune Inc. MD which is a humanized anti respiratory syncytial virus RSV monoclonal antibody useful for the treatment of patients with RSV infection PRO542 Progenics which is a CD4 fusion antibody useful for the treatment of HIV infection OSTAVIR Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a human antibody useful for the treatment of hepatitis B virus PROTOVIR Protein Design Labs Inc. CA which is a humanized IgGantibody useful for the treatment of cytomegalovirus CMV and anti LPS antibodies.

Other antibodies useful in the treatment of infectious diseases include but are not limited to antibodies against the antigens from pathogenic strains of bacteria e.g. Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus pneumoniae Neisseria gonorrheae Neisseria meningitidis Corynebacterium diphtheriae Clostridium botulinum Clostridium perfringens Clostridium tetani Hemophilus influenzae Klebsiella pneumoniae Klebsiella ozaenas Klebsiella rhinoscleromotis Staphylococc aureus Vibrio colerae Escherichia coli Pseudomonas aeruginosa Campylobacter Vibrio fetus Aeromonas hydrophila Bacillus cereus Edwardsiella tarda Yersinia enterocolitica Yersinia pestis Yersinia pseudotuberculosis Shigella dysenteriae Shigella flexneri Shigella sonnei Salmonella typhimurium Treponema pallidum Treponema pertenue Treponema carateneum Borrelia vincentii Borrelia burgdoferi Leptospira icterohemorrhagiae Mycobacterium tuberculosis Pneumocystis carinii Francisella tularensis Brucella abortus Brucella suis Brucella melitensis Mycoplasma spp. Rickettsia prowazeki Rickettsia tsutsugumushi and Chlamydia spp. pathogenic fungi e.g. Coccidioides immitis Aspergillus fumigatus Candida albicans Blastomyces dermatitidis Cryptococcus neoformans Histoplasma capsulatum protozoa Entomoeba histolytica Toxoplasma gondii Trichomonas tenas Trichomonas hominis Trichomonas vaginalis Tryoanosoma gambiense Trypanosoma rhodesiense Trypanosoma cruzi Leishmania donovani Leishmania tropica Leishmania braziliensis Pneumocystis pneumonia Plasmodium vivax Plasmodium falciparum or Plasmodium malaria or Helminiths Enterobius vermicularis Trichuris trichiura Ascaris lumbricoides Trichinella spiralis Strongyloides stercoralis Schistosoma japonicum Schistosoma mansoni Schistosoma haematobium and hookworms .

Other antibodies useful in this invention for treatment of viral disease include but are not limited to antibodies against antigens of pathogenic viruses such as for example Poxviridae Herpesviridae Herpes Simplex virus 1 Herpes Simplex virus 2 Adenoviridae Papovaviridae Enteroviridae Picornaviridae Parvoviridae Reoviridae Retroviridae influenza viruses parainfluenza viruses mumps measles respiratory syncytial virus rubella Arboviridae Rhabdoviridae Arenaviridae Hepatitis A virus Hepatitis B virus Hepatitis C virus Hepatitis E virus Non A Non B Hepatitis virus Rhinoviridae Coronaviridae Rotoviridae and Human Immunodeficiency Virus.

The Drug unit can be any cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory drug. D is a Drug unit moiety having an atom that can form a bond with the Spacer unit when y 1 or 2 or with the Glucuronide moiety when y 0. In some embodiments the Drug unit D has a nitrogen atom that can form a bond with the Spacer unit. As used herein the terms Drug unit and Drug moiety are synonymous and used interchangeably.

Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include for example antitubulin agents auristatins DNA minor groove binders DNA replication inhibitors alkylating agents e.g. platinum complexes such as cis platin mono platinum bis platinum and tri nuclear platinum complexes and carboplatin anthracyclines antibiotics anti folates antimetabolites calmodulin inhibitors chemotherapy sensitizers duocarmycins etoposides fluorinated pyrimidines ionophores lexitropsins maytansinoids nitrosoureas platinols pore forming compounds purine antimetabolites puromycins radiation sensitizers rapamycins steroids taxanes topoisomerase inhibitors vinca alkaloids or the like.

Individual cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include for example an androgen anthramycin AMC asparaginase 5 azacytidine azathioprine bleomycin busulfan buthionine sulfoximine calicheamicin calicheamicin derivatives camptothecin carboplatin carmustine BSNU CC 1065 chlorambucil cisplatin colchicine cyclophosphamide cytarabine cytidine arabinoside cytochalasin B dacarbazine dactinomycin formerly actinomycin daunorubicin decarbazine DM1 DM4 docetaxel doxorubicin etoposide an estrogen 5 fluordeoxyuridine 5 fluorouracil gemcitabine gramicidin D hydroxyurea idarubicin ifosfamide irinotecan lomustine CCNU maytansine mechlorethamine melphalan 6 mercaptopurine methotrexate mithramycin mitomycin C mitoxantrone nitroimidazole paclitaxel palytoxin plicamycin procarbizine rhizoxin streptozotocin tenoposide 6 thioguanine thioTEPA topotecan vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine VP 16 and VM 26.

In some typical embodiments suitable cytotoxic agents include for example DNA minor groove binders e.g. enediynes and lexitropsins a CBI compound see also U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 237 duocarmycins taxanes e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel puromycins vinca alkaloids CC 1065 SN 38 topotecan morpholino doxorubicin rhizoxin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin echinomycin combretastatin netropsin epothilone A and B estramustine cryptophycins cemadotin maytansinoids discodermolide eleutherobin and mitoxantrone.

In some embodiments the Drug is an anti tubulin agent. Examples of anti tubulin agents include but are not limited to taxanes e.g. Taxol paclitaxel Taxotere docetaxel T67 Tularik and vinca alkyloids e.g. vincristine vinblastine vindesine and vinorelbine . Other antitubulin agents include for example baccatin derivatives taxane analogs epothilones e.g. epothilone A and B nocodazole colchicine and colcimid estramustine cryptophycins cemadotin maytansinoids combretastatins discodermolide and eleutherobin.

In certain embodiments the cytotoxic agent is a maytansinoid another group of anti tubulin agents. For example in specific embodiments the maytansinoid can be maytansine or DM 1 ImmunoGen Inc. see also Chari et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 127 131 .

In some embodiments the Drug is an auristatin such as auristatin E or a derivative thereof. For example the auristatin E derivative can be an ester formed between auristatin E and a keto acid. For example auristatin E can be reacted with paraacetyl benzoic acid or benzoylvaleric acid to produce AEB and AEVB respectively. Other typical auristatin derivatives include AFP MMAF and MMAE. The synthesis and structure of auristatin derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0083263 2005 0238649 and 2005 0009751 International Patent Publication No. WO 04 010957 International Patent Publication No. WO 02 088172 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 315 6 239 104 6 034 065 5 780 588 5 665 860 5 663 149 5 635 483 5 599 902 5 554 725 5 530 097 5 521 284 5 504 191 5 410 024 5 138 036 5 076 973 4 986 988 4 978 744 4 879 278 4 816 444 and 4 486 414.

In one embodiment R Rand Rare independently isopropyl or sec butyl and Ris H. In an exemplary embodiment Rand Rare each isopropyl Ris H and Ris sec butyl.

In an exemplary embodiment Rand Rare each isopropyl Rand Rare each methyl Ris H Ris sec butyl each occurrence of Ris OCH and Ris H.

In one aspect hydrophilic groups such as but not limited to triethylene glycol esters TEG as shown above can be attached to the Drug Unit at R. Without being bound by theory the hydrophilic groups assist in the internalization and non agglomeration of the Drug Unit.

In another aspect the Drug unit is an amino benzoic acid derivative of an auristatin of the following formula 

In some embodiments the Drug unit is not a radioisotope. In some embodiments the Drug unit is not radioactive.

In some embodiments the Drug unit is an antimetabolite. The antimetabolite can be for example a purine antagonist e.g. azothioprine or mycophenolate mofetil a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor e.g. methotrexate acyclovir gangcyclovir zidovudine vidarabine ribavarin azidothymidine cytidine arabinoside amantadine dideoxyuridine iododeoxyuridine poscarnet or trifluridine.

In other embodiments the Drug unit is tacrolimus cyclosporine FU506 or rapamycin. In further embodiments the Drug is aldesleukin alemtuzumab alitretinoin allopurinol altretamine amifostine anastrozole arsenic trioxide bexarotene bexarotene calusterone capecitabine celecoxib cladribine Darbepoetin alfa Denileukin diftitox dexrazoxane dromostanolone propionate epirubicin Epoetin alfa estramustine exemestane Filgrastim floxuridine fludarabine fulvestrant gemcitabine gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG goserelin idarubicin ifosfamide imatinib mesylate Interferon alfa 2a irinotecan letrozole leucovorin levamisole meclorethamine or nitrogen mustard megestrol mesna methotrexate methoxsalen mitomycin C mitotane nandrolone phenpropionate oprelvekin oxaliplatin pamidronate pegademase pegaspargase pegfilgrastim pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin porfimer sodium procarbazine quinacrine rasburicase Rituximab Sargramostim streptozocin tamoxifen temozolomide teniposide testolactone thioguanine toremifene Tositumomab Trastuzumab HERCEPTIN tretinoin uracil mustard valrubicin vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine or zoledronate.

In some embodiments the Drug moiety is an immunomodulatory agent. The immunomodulatory agent can be for example gangcyclovir etanercept tacrolimus cyclosporine rapamycin cyclophosphamide azathioprine mycophenolate mofetil or methotrexate. Alternatively the immunomodulatory agent can be for example a glucocorticoid e.g. cortisol or aidosterone or a glucocorticoid analogue e.g. prednisone or dexamethasone .

In some embodiments the immunomodulatory agent is an anti inflammatory agent such as arylcarboxylic derivatives pyrazole containing derivatives oxicam derivatives and nicotinic acid derivatives. Classes of anti inflammatory agents include for example cyclooxygenase inhibitors 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors and leukotriene receptor antagonists.

Suitable cyclooxygenase inhibitors include meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid carprofen diclofenac diflunisal fenbufen fenoprofen indomethacin ketoprofen nabumetone sulindac tenoxicam and tolmetin.

Suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include redox inhibitors e.g. catechol butane derivatives nordihydroguaiaretic acid NDGA masoprocol phenidone lanopalen indazolinones naphazatrom benzofuranol alkylhydroxylamine and non redox inhibitors e.g. hydroxythiazoles methoxyalkylthiazoles benzopyrans and derivatives thereof methoxytetrahydropyran boswellic acids and acetylated derivatives of boswellic acids and quinolinemethoxyphenylacetic acids substituted with cycloalkyl radicals and precursors of redox inhibitors.

Other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include antioxidants e.g. phenols propyl gallate flavonoids and or naturally occurring substrates containing flavonoids hydroxylated derivatives of the flavones flavonol dihydroquercetin luteolin galangin orobol derivatives of chalcone 4 2 4 trihydroxychalcone ortho aminophenols N hydroxyureas benzofuranols ebselen and species that increase the activity of the reducing selenoenzymes iron chelating agents e.g. hydroxamic acids and derivatives thereof N hydroxyureas 2 benzyl 1 naphthol catechols hydroxylamines carnosol trolox C catechol naphthol. sulfasalazine zyleuton 5 hydroxyanthranilic acid and 4 omega arylalkyl phenylalkanoic acids imidazole containing compounds e.g. ketoconazole and itraconazole phenothiazines and benzopyran derivatives.

Yet other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include inhibitors of eicosanoids e.g. octadecatetraenoic eicosatetraenoic docosapentaenoic eicosahexaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids and esters thereof PGE1 prostaglandin E1 PGA2 prostaglandin A2 viprostol 15 monohydroxyeicosatetraenoic 15 monohydroxy eicosatrienoic and 15 monohydroxyeicosapentaenoic acids and leukotrienes B5 C5 and D5 compounds interfering with calcium flows phenothiazines diphenylbutylamines verapamil fuscoside curcumin chlorogenic acid caffeic acid 5 8 11 14 eicosatetrayenoic acid ETYA hydroxyphenylretinamide lonapalen esculin diethylcarbamazine phenantroline baicalein proxicromil thioethers diallyl sulfide and di 1 propenyl sulfide.

Leukotriene receptor antagonists include calcitriol ontazolast Bayer Bay x 1005 Ciba Geigy CGS 25019C ebselen Leo Denmark ETH 615 Lilly LY 293111 Ono ONO 4057 Terumo TMK 688 Boehringer Ingleheim BI RM 270 Lilly LY 213024 Lilly LY 264086 Lilly LY 292728 Ono ONO LB457 Pfizer 105696 Perdue Frederick PF 10042 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 66153 SmithKline Beecham SB 201146 SmithKline Beecham SB 201993 Smith Kline Beecham SB 209247 Searle SC 53228 Sumitamo SM 15178 American Home Products WAY 121006 Bayer Bay o 8276 Warner Lambert CI 987 Warner Lambert CI 987BPC 15LY 223982 Lilly LY 233569 Lilly LY 255283 MacroNex MNX 160 Merck and Co. MK 591 Merck and Co. MK 886 Ono ONO LB 448 Purdue Frederick PF 5901 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RG 14893 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 66364 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 69698 Shionoogi S 2474 Searle SC 41930 Searle SC 50505 Searle SC 51146 Searle SC 52798 SmithKline Beecham SK F 104493 Leo Denmark SR 2566 Tanabe T 757 and Teijin TEI 1338.

A Glucuronide unit and glucuronide based Linker Drug conjugate can be synthesized by any suitable technique. The synthesis of Glucuronide based prodrugs is disclosed in for example Desbene et al. 1998 Anticancer Drug Des. 13 955 68.

A Ligand Drug compound conjugate comprising a glucuronide based Linker Drug conjugate can be synthesized by techniques in the art. For example a glucuronide based Linker Drug conjugate can comprise an acetamide functionality for conjugation to a Ligand unit. Referring to Scheme 1 a glucuronide prodrug of doxorubicin 3 is shown in Scheme 1. The amide can be modified via the amine precursor to possess a reactive group such as a bromoacetamide or maleimide for attachment to a Ligand such as an antibody. Further as disclosed in Scheme 1 under the action of glucuronidase the glucuronidase labile drug linker system would result in glycosidic bond cleavage followed by 1 6 elimination and loss of carbon dioxide to liberate drug from the Ligand Drug Conjugate.

In other exemplary embodiments Scheme 2 discloses exemplary antibody drug conjugates of MMAE and MMAF and another potent doxorubicin derivative doxorubicin propyl oxazoline DPO 2 which is a precursor to 2 pyrrolinodoxorubicin 4 as shown in Scheme 2. Additionally shown in Scheme 2a is a glucuronide prodrug of MMAE.

In other embodiments the glucuronide based Linker Drug conjugate can be for example bromoacetamide glucuronide MMAE bromoacetamide glucuronide MMAF glucuronide staurosporine or glucuronide amino CBI minor groove binder SN26597 as shown in the following formula.

The present compositions can be in any form that allows for the composition to be administered to a patient. For example the composition can be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Typical routes of administration include without limitation oral topical parenteral sublingual rectal vaginal ocular intra tumor and intranasal. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In one aspect the compositions are administered parenterally. In yet another aspect the compounds are administered intravenously. In some embodiments a Ligand Drug conjugate compound is administered in the absence of an administration of a beta glucuronidase.

Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated so as to allow a compound to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions can take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet can be a single dosage unit and a container of a compound in aerosol form can hold a plurality of dosage units.

Materials used in preparing the pharmaceutical compositions can be non toxic in the amounts used. It will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that the optimal dosage of the active ingredient s in the pharmaceutical composition will depend on a variety of factors. Relevant factors include without limitation the type of animal e.g. human the particular form of the compound the manner of administration and the composition employed.

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle can be particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s can be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral syrup or injectable liquid. In addition the carrier s can be gaseous or particulate so as to provide an aerosol composition useful in e.g. inhalatory administration.

When intended for oral administration the composition is preferably in solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the composition can be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition typically contains one or more inert diluents. In addition one or more of the following can be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the composition is in the form of a capsule e.g. a gelatin capsule it can contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol cyclodextrin or a fatty oil.

The composition can be in the form of a liquid e.g. an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid can be useful for oral administration or for delivery by injection. When intended for oral administration a composition can comprise one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition for administration by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent can also be included.

The liquid compositions whether they are solutions suspensions or other like form can also include one or more of the following sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or digylcerides which can serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin cyclodextrin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral composition can be enclosed in ampoule a disposable syringe or a multiple dose vial made of glass plastic or other material. Physiological saline is an exemplary adjuvant. An injectable composition is preferably sterile.

The amount of the compound that is effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro or in vivo assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the compositions will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness of the disease or disorder and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances.

The compositions comprise an effective amount of a compound such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least about 0.01 of a compound by weight of the composition. When intended for oral administration this amount can be varied to range from about 0.1 to about 80 by weight of the composition. In one aspect oral compositions can comprise from about 4 to about 50 of the compound by weight of the composition. In yet another aspect present compositions are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains from about 0.01 to about 2 by weight of the compound.

For intravenous administration the composition can comprise from about 0.01 to about 100 mg of a compound per kg of the animal s body weight. In one aspect the composition can include from about 1 to about 100 mg of a compound per kg of the animal s body weight. In another aspect the amount administered will be in the range from about 0.1 to about 25 mg kg of body weight of a compound.

Generally the dosage of a compound administered to a patient is typically about 0.01 mg kg to about 2000 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.01 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 250 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 20 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight.

The compound or compositions can be administered by any convenient route for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa etc. . Administration can be systemic or local. Various delivery systems are known e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules capsules etc. and can be used to administer a compound. In certain embodiments more than one compound or composition is administered to a patient.

In specific embodiments it can be desirable to administer one or more compounds or compositions locally to the area in need of treatment. This can be achieved for example and not by way of limitation by local infusion during surgery topical application e.g. in conjunction with a wound dressing after surgery by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant the implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as sialastic membranes or fibers. In one embodiment administration can be by direct injection at the site or former site of a cancer tumor or neoplastic or pre neoplastic tissue. In another embodiment administration can be by direct injection at the site or former site of a manifestation of an autoimmune disease.

In certain embodiments it can be desirable to introduce one or more compounds or compositions into the central nervous system by any suitable route including intraventricular and intrathecal injection. Intraventricular injection can be facilitated by an intraventricular catheter for example attached to a reservoir such as an Ommaya reservoir.

Pulmonary administration can also be employed e.g. by use of an inhaler or nebulizer and formulation with an aerosolizing agent or via perfusion in a fluorocarbon or synthetic pulmonary surfactant.

In yet another embodiment the compound or compositions can be delivered in a controlled release system such as but not limited to a pump or various polymeric materials can be used. In yet another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity of the target of the compound or compositions e.g. the brain thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems discussed in the review by Langer 1990 Science 249 1527 1533 can be used.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a compound is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. The carriers can be saline gum acacia gelatin starch paste talc keratin colloidal silica urea and the like. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents can be used. In one embodiment when administered to a patient the compound or compositions and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is an exemplary carrier when the compounds are administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The present compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents.

The present compositions can take the form of solutions suspensions emulsion tablets pills pellets capsules capsules containing liquids powders sustained release formulations suppositories emulsions aerosols sprays suspensions or any other form suitable for use. Other examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin.

In an embodiment the compounds are formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to animals particularly human beings. Typically the carriers or vehicles for intravenous administration are sterile isotonic aqueous buffer solutions. Where necessary the compositions can also include a solubilizing agent. Compositions for intravenous administration can optionally comprise a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where compound is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed for example with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the compound is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.

Compositions for oral delivery can be in the form of tablets lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions granules powders emulsions capsules syrups or elixirs for example. Orally administered compositions can contain one or more optionally agents for example sweetening agents such as fructose aspartame or saccharin flavoring agents such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry coloring agents and preserving agents to provide a pharmaceutically palatable preparation. Moreover where in tablet or pill form the compositions can be coated to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract thereby providing a sustained action over an extended period of time. Selectively permeable membranes surrounding an osmotically active driving compound are also suitable for orally administered compounds. In these later platforms fluid from the environment surrounding the capsule is imbibed by the driving compound which swells to displace the agent or agent composition through an aperture. These delivery platforms can provide an essentially zero order delivery profile as opposed to the spiked profiles of immediate release formulations. A time delay material such as glycerol mono stearate or glycerol stearate can also be used.

The compositions can be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may be in the form of a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. If intended for transdermal administration the composition can be in the form of a transdermal patch or an iontophoresis device. Topical formulations can comprise a concentration of a compound of from about 0.05 to about 50 w v weight per unit volume of composition in another aspect from 0.1 to 10 w v.

The composition can be intended for rectal administration in the form e.g. of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the compound.

The composition can include various materials that modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example the composition can include materials that form a coating shell around the active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert and can be selected from for example sugar shellac and other enteric coating agents. Alternatively the active ingredients can be encased in a gelatin capsule.

The compositions can consist of gaseous dosage units e.g. it can be in the form of an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages. Delivery can be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients.

Whether in solid liquid or gaseous form the present compositions can include a pharmacological agent used in the treatment of cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease.

The conjugates are useful for treating cancer an autoimmune disease an infectious disease or other disease in a patient. In some embodiments the conjugates are administered alone. In other embodiments the conjugates a co administered with another therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the conjugates are co administered with standard of care chemotherapeutics.

The conjugates are useful for inhibiting the multiplication of a tumor cell or cancer cell causing apoptosis in a tumor or cancer cell or for treating cancer in a patient. The compounds can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of animal cancers. Some exemplary particular types of cancers that can be treated with compounds include but are not limited to those disclosed in Table 1.

The conjugates provide conjugation specific tumor or cancer targeting . thus reducing general toxicity of these compounds. The linker stabilizes the conjugates in blood yet is cleavable by enzymes within the cell e.g. lysosomal enzymes liberating the Drug s .

Cancers including but not limited to a tumor metastasis or other disease or disorder characterized by uncontrolled cell growth can be treated or prevented by administration of a conjugate according to the present invention.

In some embodiments methods for treating or preventing cancer are provided including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a conjugate and a chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which treatment of the cancer has not been found to be refractory. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which the treatment of cancer has been found to be refractory. The conjugates can be administered to a patient that has also undergone surgery as treatment for the cancer.

In a specific embodiment the conjugate is administered concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy. In another specific embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered prior or subsequent to administration of a conjugate. In some embodiments the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered at least an hour five hours 12 hours a day a week a month several months e.g. up to three months prior or subsequent to administration of a conjugate.

A chemotherapeutic agent can be administered over a series of sessions. Any one or a combination of the following chemotherapeutic agents can be administered see infra . With respect to radiation any radiation therapy protocol can be used depending upon the type of cancer to be treated. For example but not by way of limitation x ray radiation can be administered in particular high energy megavoltage radiation of greater that 1 MeV energy can be used for deep tumors and electron beam and orthovoltage x ray radiation can be used for skin cancers. Gamma ray emitting radioisotopes such as radioactive isotopes of radium cobalt and other elements can also be administered.

Additionally methods of treatment of cancer with a conjugate are provided as an alternative to chemotherapy or radiation therapy where the chemotherapy or the radiation therapy has proven or can prove to be too toxic e.g. results in unacceptable or unbearable side effects for the subject being treated. The animal being treated can optionally be treated with another cancer treatment such as surgery radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on which treatment is found to be acceptable or bearable.

The conjugates can also be used in an in vitro or ex vivo fashion such as for the treatment of certain cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such treatment involving autologous stem cell transplants. This can involve a multi step process in which the animal s autologous hematopoietic stem cells are harvested and purged of all cancer cells the animal s remaining bone marrow cell population is then eradicated via the administration of a high dose of a conjugate with or without accompanying high dose radiation therapy and the stem cell graft is infused back into the animal. Supportive care is then provided while bone marrow function is restored and the animal recovers.

Methods for treating cancer including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a conjugate and another therapeutic agent that is an anti cancer agent are disclosed.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan piposulfan and treosulfan decarbazine aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine TLK 286 TELCYTA acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine bisphosphonates such as clodronate antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammal1 and calicheamicin omegal1 see e.g. Agnew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 and anthracyclines such as annamycin AD 32 alcarubicin daunorubicin dexrazoxane DX 52 1 epirubicin GPX 100 idarubicin KRN5500 menogaril dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins e.g. bleomycin A2 bleomycin B2 and peplomycin cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin liposomal doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin esorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid tiazofurin ribavarin EICAR nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin poffiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin and zorubicin folic acid analogues such as denopterin pteropterin and trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine and thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine and floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane and testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane and trilostane folic acid replenisher such as folinic acid leucovorin aceglatone anti folate anti neoplastic agents such as ALIMTA LY231514 pemetrexed dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors such as methotrexate and trimetrexate anti metabolites such as 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and its prodrugs such as UFT S 1 and capecitabine and thymidylate synthase inhibitors and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase inhibitors such as raltitrexed TOMUDEXRM TDX inhibitors of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase such as eniluracil aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea deferoxamine lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine cytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids and taxanes e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANETM Cremophorfree albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel. American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine platinum platinum analogs or platinum based analogs such as cisplatin oxaliplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN epipodophyllins such as etoposide VP 16 teniposide tepotecan 9 aminocamptothecin camptothecin and crisnatol ifosfamide mitoxantrone vinca alkaloids such as vincristine ONCOVIN vindesine vinca alkaloid and vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluorometlhylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATINTM combined with 5 FU and leucovorin.

In some embodiments the anticancer agent is methotrexate taxol L asparaginase mercaptopurine thioguanine hydroxyurea cytarabine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide nitrosoureas cisplatin carboplatin mitomycin dacarbazine procarbizine topotecan nitrogen mustards cytoxan etoposide 5 fluorouracil BCNU irinotecan camptothecins bleomycin doxorubicin idarubicin daunorubicin dactinomycin plicamycin mitoxantrone asparaginase vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine paclitaxel or docetaxel.

The conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell that produces an autoimmune disease or for treating an autoimmune disease. The conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of an autoimmune disease in a patient.

Particular types of autoimmune diseases that can be treated with the conjugates include but are not limited to Th2 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. atopic dermatitis atopic asthma rhinoconjunctivitis allergic rhinitis Omenn s syndrome systemic sclerosis and graft versus host disease Th1 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sjorgren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Grave s disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis and tuberculosis activated B lymphocyte related disorders e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus Goodpasture s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis and type I diabetes and those disclosed in Table 3.

Methods for treating an autoimmune disease are also disclosed including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a conjugate and another therapeutic agent known for the treatment of an autoimmune disease. In one embodiment the anti autoimmune disease agent includes but is not limited to agents listed in Table 4.

The conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the multiplication of a cell that produces an infectious disease or for treating an infectious disease.

In one embodiment the conjugates kill or inhibit the multiplication of cells that produce a particular infectious disease.

Particular types of infectious diseases that can be treated with the conjugates include but are not limited to those disclosed in Table 5.

Methods for treating an infectious disease are disclosed including administering to a patient in need thereof a conjugate and another therapeutic agent that is an anti infectious disease agent. In one embodiment the anti infectious disease agent is but not limited to agents listed in Table 6.

The invention is further described in the following examples which are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Cell lines described in the following examples were maintained in culture according to the conditions specified by the American Type Culture Collection ATCC or Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen and Zellkulturen GmbH Braunschweig Germany DMSZ unless otherwise specified. Cell culture reagents were obtained from Invitrogen Corp. Carlsbad Calif. unless otherwise specified.

Unless otherwise indicated all anhydrous solvents were commercially obtained and stored in Sure seal bottles under nitrogen. All other reagents and solvents were purchased as the highest grade available and used without further purification. NMR spectra were recorded on Varian Mercury 400 MHz Instrument. Chemical shifts are reported in parts per million ppm referenced to tetramethylsilane at 0.00 and coupling constants J are reported in Hz. Low resolution mass spectral data were acquired on a Micromass ZMD mass spectrometer interfaced with an HP Agilent 1100 high performance liquid chromatography instrument for LC MS. Products were eluted on a Phenomonex Synergi 2.0 150 mm 4 80 MAX RP column using a linear gradient of mobile phase B CHCN with 0.05 HCOH in A 0.05 aqueous HCOH at 0.4 mL min Unless otherwise specified the reported retention times t are those from LC MS. High resolution exact mass data were obtained at the University of Washington Medicinal Chemistry Mass Spectrometry Center on a Bruker APEXIII 47e FT ICR MS. Analytical HPLC was conducted on a Waters 2695 instrument using a Waters 2996 PDA and Millenium software.

For analytical HPLC the stationary phase used was a Phenomonex Synergi 4.6 150 mm 4 80 MAX RP column. Products were eluted on either acidic linear gradients designated gradient A of mobile phase B CHCN with 0.05 HCOH 10 to 95 over 8 min in A 0.05 aqueous TFA or neutral linear gradients designated gradient N of mobile phase B CHCN 10 to 90 over 10 min then hold at 90 for 5 min in A 5.0 mM NHHPO at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min. Preparative HPLC purifications were performed on Varian instrument equipped with C12 Phenomenex Synergy MAX RP 4 reversed phase column 250 21.2 mm eluting with 0.1 TFA in a water acetonitrile gradient. Radial chromatography was performed on a Chromatotron instrument Harrison Research Palo Alto Calif. on normal phase silica plates Analtech Newark Del. . Preparative thin layer chromatography was performed on Whatman 20 20 cm 500 60 silica gel plates. All other preparative normal phase purifications were done by standard flash silica gel chromatography using Whatman Science 60 230 400 mesh silica gel as adsorbent.

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6S methyl 6 2 3 9H fluoren 9yl methoxy carbonyl amino propanamido 4 hydroxymethyl phenoxy 3 4 5 triacetoxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylate 11 To a solution of the aniline 5 74 mg 0.163 mmol in dichloromethane 6 mL was added DIPEA 57 L 0.33 mmol . The acid chloride 6 65 mg 0.20 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. The mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined extracts were washed with water and brine and were dried over sodium sulfate. Filtration and concentration gave a residue that was purified via radial chromatography using 5 methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase to give 106 mg 87 of 11 as a white solid H NMR d6 DMSO 1.98 s 3H 1.99 s 6H 2.52 m 2H 3.27 m 2H 3.32 s 3H 4.20 m 1H 4.26 m 1H 4.39 d 2H J 6.3 Hz 4.70 d 1H J 9.7 Hz 5.04 t 1H J 9.6 Hz 5.15 m 2H 5.48 t 1H J 9.4 Hz 5.54 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 5.75 s 1H 7.02 q 2H J 4.3 Hz 7.30 m 2H 7.39 t 4H J 7.72 Hz 7.67 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.80 s 1H 7.87 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 8.72 s 1H LC MS m z ES 749.04 M H .

 2 S 3S 4S 5R 6S methyl 6 2 3 9H fluoren 9yl methoxy carbonyl amino propanamido 4 4 nitrophenoxy carbonyloxy methyl phenoxy 3 4 5 triacetoxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylate 7 To a mixture of benzyl alcohol 11 105 mg 0.14 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added bis p nitrophenyl carbonate 85 mg 0.28 mmol and DIPEA 36 L 0.21 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 16 h at an ambient temperature and was concentrated under reduced pressure to an oily residue. This material was dissolved in dichloromethane and aspirated directly onto a 1 mm radial Chromatotron plate and eluted with 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes followed by ethyl acetate to give 83 106 mg of 7 as a solid H NMR d6 DMSO 1.98 s 3H 1.99 s 3H 1.99 s 3H 2.52 m 2H 3.28 m 2H 3.62 s 3H 4.20 m 1H 4.27 m 2H 4.73 d 1H J 9.8 Hz 5.05 t 1H J 9.6 Hz 5.18 t 1H J 9.4 Hz 5.21 s 2H 5.49 t 1H J 10.2 Hz 7.10 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 7.22 m 1H 7.30 m 2H 7.39 m 4H J 7.0 Hz 7.55 d 2H J 9.2 Hz 7.67 d 2H J 5.2 Hz 7.87 d 2H J 7.0 Hz 7.97 s 1H 8.29 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 8.83 s 1H LC MS m z ES 914.03 M H .

Monomethyl Auristatin E MMAE MMAE 1a was prepared at Albany Molecule Research Inc Albany N.Y. . The synthesis of MMAE 1a has been described previously Doronina et al. Nat Biotechnol 21 778 84 2003 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein .

Monomethyl Auristatin F MMAF Intermediates for the synthesis of MMAF lb were prepared at Albany Molecule Research Inc Albany N.Y. . The synthesis of MMAF 1b has been described previously Doronina et al. Bioconjug Chem. 17 1 114 124 2006 and U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0238649 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein .

MMAF Carbonate 8 To a mixture of the p nitrophenyl carbonate 7 30 mg 0.033 mmol and monomethyl auristatin F MMAF 1b 29 mg 0.039 mmol was added DMF 0.8 mL and pyridine 0.2 mL . The synthesis of MMAF has been described previously Doronina et al. Bioconjug Chem. 17 1 114 124 2006 and U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0238649 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein . DIPEA 7 L 0.04 mmol was added followed by HOAt 1 mg 7 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h at an ambient temperature. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and was chromatographed on a 1 mm Chromatotron plate eluting with a 1 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane gradient containing 1 acetic acid. The final UV active 254 nm band to elute was product. This gave 44 22 mg of 8 as a solid material. The material was carried forward without analytical characterization.

MMAF glucuronide amine To a mixture of the MMAF carbamate 22 mg 0.015 mmol in methanol 1 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of LiOH monohydrate 5.5 mg 0.132 mmol in water 1 mL . The mixture was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was neutralized using acetic acid 8 L and was concentrated under reduced pressure LC MS m z ES 1364.09 M H 9.78 min.

The resulting material was dissolved in DMF 0.8 mL and was treated with piperidine 0.2 mL . The mixture was stirred for 5 min and was concentrated under reduced pressure. The material was taken up in water and purified via preparative HPLC to give 12 mg 72 as a white solid H NMR CDOD 0.52 d 0.59 d 0.75 1.1 m 1.1 1.35 m 1.32 1.67 m 1.70 2.10 m 2.15 2.50 m 2.83 3.05 m 3.11 s 3.15 3.42 m 3.45 3.68 m 3.85 m 3.95 m 4.00 4.18 m 4.19 4.30 m 4.50 4.97 m 5.00 5.20 m 7.09 7.29 m 7.65 d 7.75 d 7.82 d 7.88 d 8.18 d 8.25 m 8.35 d 8.40 d 8.59 d LC MS m z ES 1144.66 M H .

MMAE glucuronide maleimide 9a Compound 9a was prepared in a manner identical to 9b infra starting with MMAE 1a and compound 7. Compound 9a was obtained as a white solid H NMR CDOD 0.64 1.01 m 24H 1.12 t J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.16 d J 6.5 Hz 1H 1.23 m 1H 1.4 m 1H 1.45 1.63 m 5H 1.67 1.98 m 2H 2.19 m 3H 2.42 2.54 m 1H 2.63 m 2H 2.96 m 4H 3.1 s 2H 3.12 3.39 m 3H 3.40 3.73 m 9H 3.85 3.96 m 1H 4.04 m 1H 4.13 4.27 m 2H 4.52 m 1H 4.59 4.68 m 2H 4.65 5.0 m 2H 5.0 5.17 m 2H 6.78 s 2H 7.09 m 1H 7.20 m 3H 7.3 m 3H 7.38 d J 7.6 Hz 3H 7.75 8.01 m 2H 8.26 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 8.32 m 1H LC MS m z ES 1323.01 M H 6.88 min HRMS m z for CHNONa M H 2Na calcd 1367.6615 found 1367.6616.

MMAF glucuronide maleimide 9b To a mixture of the amine 12 mg 0.011 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added MC OSu 10 5.2 mg followed by DIPEA 6 L . After 15 min. the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure was dissolved in a mixture of water and DMSO 1 1 1 mL and was purified via preparative HPLC. This gave 9.4 mg 64 of 9b as a white solid NMR CDOD 0.66 1.05 m 22H 1.10 1.27 m 9H 1.33 1.43 m 2H 1.441.62 m 6H 1.66 2.05 m 5H 2.15 2.35 m 4H 2.40 2.50 m 2H 2.60 2.68 m 2H 2.84 2.98 m 9H 3.10 s 2H 3.22 s 2H 3.25 3.68 m 12H 3.85 dd J 8.6 2.0 Hz 3.93 d J 10 Hz 4.05 m 1H 4.13 m 1H 4.22 q J 10 Hz 4.48 4.58 m 1H 4.63 4.75 m 2H 4.81 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 5.02 5.17 m 3H 6.77 s 2H 7.10 m 1H 7.15 7.29 m 8H 7.82 8.01 m 2H 8.16 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 8.24 s 1H 8.35 m 1H LC MS m z ES 1337.03 M H 8.50 min HRMS m z for CHNONa M H 2Na calcd 1381.6407 found 1381.6428.

4 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy butan 1 ol To a solution of 1 4 butanediol was added sodium hydride 1.0 g of a 60 dispersion in mineral oil . This mixture was allowed to stir at an ambient temperature for 1 h before TBDPSCI 5.0 mL 18.2 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred overnight at an ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether 3 100 mL . The combined extract was washed with water and brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Filtration and concentration gave an oily residue which was purified via radial chromatography on a 4 mm plate eluting with 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes followed by 50 ethyl acetate in hexane. This gave 3.36 g 56 of desired product as clear oil. H NMR CDCl 1.24 s 9H 1.65 m 4h 3.65 m 4H 7.40 m 6H 7.64 d 2H J 1.5 Hz .

4 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy butanal To a solution of the 4 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy butan 1 ol 0.5 g 1.5 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 775 mg 1.83 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was poured into hexanes and the resulting white precipitant was removed via filtration. The solution was concentrated to give form a slurry which was dissolved in dichloromethane 5 mL and again poured into hexanes resulting in the precipitation of white solid. The solids were removed via filtration and the resulting solution was concentrated. This gave 475 mg 97 of a clear oil H NMR CDCl 1.04 s 9H 1.89 m 2H 2.55 m 2H 3.69 t 2H J 6.1 Hz 7.38 m 6H 7.63 d 4H J 1.7 Hz 9.79 t 1H J 1.8 Hz .

2 3 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy propyl oxazolidine 12 A mixture of the 4 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy butanal 235 mg 0.72 mmol in benzene 3 ml was added dropwise to a solution of hydroxy ethylamine 44 L 0.72 mmol in benzene 3 mL . Powdered molecular sieves 4 600 mg were added and the mixture was stirred for 1.5 h before being filtered through a 20 m Millipore syringe filter and concentrated. This gave 12 which was used directly and immediately in the synthesis of 13 infra H NMR CD 1.18 s 9H 1.65 1.82 m 2H 2.62 m 2H 3.33 dd 3H J 6.1 7.5 Hz 3.69 t 3H J 6.1 Hz 4.26 t 1H 7.23 dd 6H J 1.9 3.1 Hz 7.79 m 4H .

3 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino propanamido 4 2S 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 5 triacetoxy 6 methoxycarbonyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy benzyl 2 3 tert butyidiphenyIsilyloxy propyl oxazolidine 3 carboxylate 13 To the benzyl alcohol 50 mg 0.067 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL was added pyridine 63 L 0.8 mmol . The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and diphosgene 16 L 0.134 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred for 1 h. The oxazolidine 12 formed from 65 mg of 4 tert butyidiphenylsilyloxy butanal was added as a dichloromethane solution 3 mL dropwise down the cooled inside wall of the reaction flask. The reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to 20 C. over several hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified via radial chromatography eluting with dichloromethane. The major UV active band 254 nm was collected and concentrated to give 54 mg 70 of 13 H NMR d6 DMSO 0.95 s 9H 1.55 m 2H 1.63 m 1H 1.82 m 1H 1.98 m 9H 2.4 2.52 m 2H 3.27 m 2H 3.54 3.66 m 6H 3.70 q 1H J 10.0 Hz 3.98 m 1H 4.20 m 1H 4.26 m 3H 4.70 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.90 5.10 m 4H 5.16 t 1H J 9.6 Hz 5.48 t 1H J 9.4 Hz 5.57 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.0 7.15 m 3H 7.29 m 2H 7.36 7.45 m 8H 7.57 d 4H J 7.2 Hz 7.66 d 2H J 7.2 Hz 7.86 d 3H J 7.6 Hz 8.75 m 1H LC MS m z ES 1143.88 M H 13.76 min.

3 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino propanamido 4 2S 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 5 triacetoxy 6 methoxycarbonyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy benzyl 2 3 hydroxypropyl oxazolidine 3 carboxylate To a mixture of the silyl ether 13 52 mg 0.042 mmol in THF 2 mL and pyridine 2 mL was added HF pyridine complex 400 L . The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h and was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined extracts were washed with water and brine and dried over sodium sulfate before being filtered and concentrated. The resulting oil was purified via radial chromatography on a 1 plate eluting with 5 methanol in dichloromethane to give 36 mg 86 of a solid residue H NMR CDOD 1.55 bs 2H 1.68 m 1H 1.87 m 1H 1.95 s 3H 2.01 m 6H 2.67 oct 2H J 6.8 Hz 3.30 m 1H 3.50 m 3H 3.65 m 1H 3.69 m 3H 3.82 q 1H J 8.0 Hz 4.01 m 1H 4.23 m 1H J 7.0 Hz 4.25 4.40 m 2H 4.47 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 5.0 5.15 m 3H 5.19 t 1H J 9.8 Hz 5.28 dd 1H J 6.0 9.6 Hz 5.39 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 5.49 m 3H 7.11 m 2H 7.17 7.32 m 3H 7.34 t 2H J 7.4 Hz 7.62 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.77 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 8.07 s 1H LC MS m z ES 927.87 M Na 9.79 min.

3 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino propanamido 4 2S 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 5 triacetoxy 6 methoxycarbonyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy benzyl 2 3 oxopropyl oxazolidine 3 carboxylate 14 To a solution of the alcohol 36 mg 0.04 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 20 mg 0.048 mmol . After 1 h an additional quantity of the Dess Martin reagent was added 20 mg and the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 1 h. The reaction mixture was aspirated onto a 1 mm radial Chromatotron plate and eluted with 5 methanol in dichloromethane. This gave a quantitative yield 36 mg of the aldehyde 14 H NMR d6 DMSO 1.89 s 3H 1.91 m 1H 1.98 s 3H 1.98 s 3H 2.41 m 1H 3.27 m 2H 3.75 m 1H0 3.61 s 3H 3.77 q 1H J 7.8 Hz 3.95 m 1H 4.15 4.30 m 3H 4.71 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 4.97 5.13 m 4H 5.16 dd 1H J 7.8 9.9 Hz 5.45 t 1H J 9.6 Hz 5.58 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.05 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 7.12 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.29 dd 2H J 5.3 7.4 Hz 7.39 t 2H J 7.4 Hz 7.67 d 2H J 5.4 Hz 8.77 s 1H 9.57 s 1H 11.97 s 1H LC MS m z ES 903.96 M H 10.48 min.

3 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonylamino propanamido 4 2S 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 5 triacetoxy 6 methoxycarbonyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy benzyl 2 3 3 hydroxy 2 methyl 6 3S 3 5 12 trihydroxy 3 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 methoxy 6 11 dioxo 1 2 3 4 6 11 hexahydrotetracen 1 yloxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino propyl oxazolidine 3 carboxylate 16 To the aldehyde 14 36 mg 0.04 mmol in a mix of acetonitrile and water 2 1 4.5 mL total at 0 C. was added doxorubicin HCl 15 followed by stirring until all the solids were dissolved. The mixture was treated with a solution of sodium cyanoborohydride 1.0M solution in THF 20 L 0.02 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h and the mixture was poured into water and extracted repeatedly with dichloromethane 5 50 mL . The combined organics were washed with water and brine and were concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was dissolved in 5 methanol in dichloromethane and was aspirated directly onto a 1 mm radial Chromatotron plate and eluted with 20 methanol in dichloromethane. The first major band was collected to give 23.6 mg 41 of 16 H NMR d6 DMSO 1.14 d 3H J 6.5 Hz 1.36 1.60 b 2H 1.62 1.78 b 2H 1.97 1.99 m 9H 2.14 b 3H 2.95 s 3H 3.18 3.32 m 2H 3.52 b 1H 3.60 s 3H 3.75 q 1H J 6.8 Hz 4.95 bs 1H 3.96 s 3H 4.09 b 1H 4.17 t 1H J 6.5 Hz 4.25 d 2H J 6.1 Hz 4.54 d 2H J 6.3 Hz 4.70 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.86 t 1H J 5.9 hz 4.92 5.07 m 3H 5.15 t 1H J 8.2 Hz 5.25 bs 1H 5.04 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 5.48 t 1H J 10.0 Hz 5.55 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.0 7.11 m 2H 7.28 m 2H 7.37 t 3H J 7.3 Hz 7.65 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 7.85 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 8.75 b 1H LC MS m z ES 1428.9 M H 7.9 min.

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6S 6 2 3 aminopropanamido 4 2 3 3 hydroxy 2 methyl 6 3S 3 5 12 trihydroxy 3 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 methoxy 6 11 dioxo 1 2 3 4 6 11 hexahydrotetracen 1 yloxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino propyl oxazolidine 3 carbonyloxy methyl phenoxy 3 4 5 trihydroxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylic acid To a 0 C. mixture of the doxorubicin oxazolidine 16 30 mg 0.021 mmol in methanol 4 mL was added a solution of LiOH monohydrate 8.8 mg 0.21 mmol in water 2 mL . The mixture was stirred for 35 min and was neutralized with acetic acid 8 uL 0.21 mmol to a pH of approximately 7. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue which was dissolved in DMF 4 mL and treated with piperidine 1 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min before being concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified via preparative HPLC to yield 6.1 mg 27 of product LC MS m z ES 1069.13 M H 5.64 min.

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6S 6 2 3 6 2 5 dioxo 2H pyrrol 1 5H yl hexanamido propanamido 4 2 3 3 hydroxy 2 methyl 6 3S 3 5 12 trihydroxy 3 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 methoxy 6 11 dioxo 1 2 3 4 6 11 hexahydrotetracen 1 yloxy tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylamino propyl oxazolidine 3 carbonyloxy methyl phenoxy 3 4 5 trihydroxytetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylic acid 17 To a mixture of the amine 6.1 mg 5.7 mol in DMF 0.2 mL was added MC OSu 10 4 mg 14 mol followed by DIPEA 3 L 17 mol . The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and then dissolved in a mixture of water and DMSO 1 1 2 mL . The mixture was purified via reverse phase preparative HPLC to yield 2.1 mg 26 of 17 as a red solid H NMR CDOD 51.1 1.25 b 2H 1.29 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 1.35 1.62 b 3H 1.65 1.90 b 3H 2.02 2.13 m 4H 2.67 s 4H N hydroxy succinimide impurity 3.00 3.10 m 4H 3.41 3.57 m 3H 3.57 3.70 m 3H 3.81 m 2H 3.94 d 1H J 9.6 Hz 4.02 b 1H 4.05 s 3H 4.29 q 1H J 7.0 Hz 4.71 s 3H 4.73 m 1H 5.06 m 1H 5.12 b 1H 5.49 s 1H 6.78 s 2H 6.82 7.09 b 2H 7.57 d 1H J 6.4 Hz 7.84 t 1H J 7.4 Hz 7.95 sd 1H J 7.4 Hz 8.08 bs 1H LC MS m z ES 1260.24 M H 6.49 min.

Drug linkers employing a glucuronide based linker unit with the antimitotic agents monomethyl auristatin E MMAE 1a and monomethyl auristatin F MMAF 1b and doxorubicin propyloxazoline DPO 2 were prepared and evaluated.

 Glucuronide Drug Linker Preparation The starting point for the synthesis of a glucuronide drug linker with MMAF 1b was glucuronide 5 bearing the free aniline and hydroxy groups Scheme 3 infra . This compound was acylated with the acid chloride 6 and then converted to the p nitrophenyl PNP carbonate 7. Reaction with MMAF 1b afforded the carbamate 8. This molecule was converted to the desired glucuronide drug linker 9b by first saponifying the acetate and methyl ester protecting groups with lithium hydroxide Leenders et al. 1999 Bioorg. Med. Chem. 7 1597 610 Fmoc removal with piperidine and capping of the resulting free amine with maleimidocaproyl N hydroxysuccimidyl ester MC OSu 10 . A final preparative HPLC purification afforded 9b. The glucuronide MMAE drug linker 9a was prepared in an identical fashion starting with 5 and 1a.

The construction of the glucuronide based linker unit with DPO 2 involved a different strategy Scheme 4 . Intermediate 11 was activated with diphosgene and then reacted with oxazoline 12 prepared in 3 steps from 1 4 butane diol to afford the desired oxazoline carbamate 13. Removal of the silyl protecting group with fluoride was followed by oxidation to give aldehyde 14. This compound was used in a reductive alkylation reaction with doxorubicin HCl 15 to give the doxorubicin derivative 16. Lastly the glucuronide protecting groups and Fmoc group were removed in a 2 step sequence with lithium hydroxide and piperidine and the resulting primary amine was capped with 10 to give the desired glucuronide DPO linker 17.

ADC preparation. Antibody drug conjugates ADCS of linker drug conjugates 9a with MMAE b with MMAF and 17 with doxorubicin propyloxazoline DPO were prepared with the chimeric mAbs AC10 IgG1 against the CD30 antigen Wahl et al. 2002 Cancer Res. 62 3736 42 and 1F6 IgG1 against the CD70 antigen see e.g. International Patent Publication WO 04 073656 . The antibodies were prepared based on a method described previously see Doronina et al. 2003 Nat. Biotechnol. 21 778 84 .

The mAbs 5 mg ml in phosphate buffered saline PBS containing 50 mM sodium borate pH 8.0 were treated with dithiothreitol DTT or tris 2 carboxyethyl phospine hydrochloride TCEP at 10 mM final at 37 C. for 30 min. After gel filtration G 25 PBS containing 1 mM DTPA thiol determination using 5 5 dithiobis 2 nitrobenzoic acid indicated that there were approximately eight thiols per mAb 4 thiols per mAb with TCEP . To the reduced mAb at 4 C. was added the maleimide drug derivatives 1.2 equiv. SH group in ice cold DMSO 20 v v . After 1 h the reactions were quenched with excess cysteine the conjugates were concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration gel filtered G 25 PBS and sterile filtered. The molar ratio of drug substitution was determined according to previously published methods Hamblett et al. 2004 Clin. Cancer Res. 10 7063 70 Sun et al. 2005 Bioconjug. Chem. 16 1282 90 . Size exclusion HPLC was used to determine monomer within each conjugate and RP HPLC established that there was less than 0.5 unconjugated cysteine quenched drug.

Drug loading for the doxorubicin containing conjugates cAC10 17 and c1F6 17 was determined by measuring the absorbance at 280 nm and 490 nm doxorubicin absorbance . It was found that the cAC10 and c1F6 ADCs had 6.8 and 8.3 drugs mAb respectively. Due to the weak UV absorbance of the drug linkers 9a and 9b the drug per mAb ratios of the corresponding ADCs were determined through chromatographic resolution of the light and heavy chains at each drug loading level 0 1 drugs for light chains 0 3 drugs for heavy chains and calculation of the overall average from the peak areas at each loading level Hamblett et al. supra Sun et al. supra . The levels were shown to be 3.7 and 4.5 for cAC10 9a and c1F6 9a and 7.6 and 7.0 for the cAC10 9b and c1F6 9b conjugates respectively. The six ADCs were primarily monomeric with 2 or less aggregate being observed in the cAC10 based conjugates and 7 or less aggregate for the c1F6 based conjugates.

Results. The glucuronide linker system described can be included a part of an antibody drug conjugate ADC . Under the action of glucuronidase e.g. a lysosomal glucuronidase the drug linker is hydrolyzed at the glycosidic bond and undergo a 1 6 elimination with loss of carbon dioxide to liberate drug conjugated to the linker system see Scheme 1 supra . Three ADCs based on this linker design employed the antimitotic drugs MMAE 1a and MMAF 1b and doxorubicin propyl oxazoline DPO 2 which is a labile precursor to highly potent 2 pyrrolinodoxorubicin 4 as shown in Scheme 2 supra . Compound 4 affects apoptosis through alkylation of double stranded DNA 33 .

The susceptibility of the glucuronide linkers to enzymatic cleavage was determined by treatment of the cysteine adduct of compound 9b with glucuronidase. A commercially available E. coli glucuronidase EC 3.2.1.31 was in place of the human enzyme for this study. This allowed confirmation that the desired drug MMAF 1b was released and if any stable intermediates were formed in the process.

 glucuronidase Reactivity. To water 90 L was added cysteine 12.5 L of a 0.1 mM solution and pH 9 borate buffer 12.5 L of a 30 mM solution . This was followed by the addition of 9b 10 L of a 10 mM DMSO solution . HPLC inspection after 5 min revealed complete conversion to cys 9b. To 440 mL of PBS was added the cys 9b solution 50 L 40 nmol followed by a solution of E. coli glucuronidase Sigma E.C. 3.2.1.31 Type IX A 10 L of a 1 mg mL solution in PBS 3.6 g 13 pmol and the reaction mixture was incubated at 37 C. Aliquots 50 L were taken at t 0 25 60 and 90 min and analyzed by LC. Results were based on the area under the curve AUC of remaining cys 9b at each time point as a percentage of the AUC for cys 9b at t 0.

Results. The glucuronidase assay was performed as described above. An HPLC assay was used to monitor the loss of cys 9b MMAF at 37 C. The specific activity of the E. coli glucuronidase for cys 9b was 0.13 mol min mg. Referring to the cleavage of glucuronide from cys 9b resulted in rapid 1 6 elimination of MMAF 1b which was identified by LC MS. No MMAF containing phenolic intermediates could be detected by LC MS. Thus the 1 6 elimination appears to be rapid.

In a similar study with cys 17 with doxorubicin propyloxazoline DPO treatment with glucuronidase yielded the 2 pyrrolinodoxorubicin 4 directly as confirmed by LC MS. Controls indicated both cys 9b and cys 17 were stable in the absence of glucuronidase. These two studies demonstrated that the linker is a substrate for a glucuronidase enzyme and that the drug is readily liberated once the glucuronide hydrolysis occurs.

To determine the plasma stability of the glucuronide linker the reactive maleimide double bond of 9b with MMAF was reduced with excess DTT to afford dihydro 9b. This material was added to rat plasma and incubated at 37 C. for a period of 7 days. Aliquots were taken at various time points and the plasma proteins were precipitated centrifuged and the supernatant recovered. Each supernatant was analyzed by LC MS and the total positive ion current TIC chromatogram was scanned for the masses of parent compound dihydro 9b and released MMAF 1b . After 7 days the TIC for dihydro 9b including the ring opened succinimide hydrolysis adduct was 89 of sample taken immediately after dihydro 9b was injected into plasma. Free drug 1b could be detected but was not quantified. Assuming first order kinetics extrapolation of these data suggest a half life of 81 days for dihydro 9b. In a parallel experiment the rat plasma stability of the maleimide reduced Val Cit PABA linked MMAF was determined just as with dihydro 9b. This drug linker displayed a half life of 6.25 days.

This study demonstrates the improved stability of the glucuronide linker system relative to disulfide and hydrazone based systems which are reported to have shorter half lives for drug release.

The linker drug conjugates and ADCs compounds 9a with MMAE 9b MMAF and 17 with doxorubicin propyloxazoline DPO with the mAbs AC10 IgG1 against the CD30 antigen and 1F6 IgG1 against the CD70 antigen were prepared. The ADCs c1F6 9a and cAC10 9a c1F6 9b and cAC10 9b and c1F6 17 and cAC10 17 were evaluated for cytotoxic activity on a CD30 cell line Karpas 299 and two CD70 renal cell carcinoma RCC lines 786 O and Caki 1.

In vitro growth inhibition. Cells were collected and plated in 96 well black sided plates at a density of 10 000 cells well in 150 L of medium. Serial dilutions of the ADC 50 L were added and incubation was carried out for 92 h at 37 C. After addition of ADC cultures were incubated to 96 h at 37 C. Resazurin 0.25 mM 50 L Sigma St. Louis Mo. in medium was added and incubation was continued for 4 h. The plates were read on a Fusion HT microplate reader Packard Meriden Conn. using an excitation wavelength of 525 nm and an emission wavelength of 590 nm. Data from all assays were reduced using GraphPad Prism Version 4 for Windows GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. . The ICconcentrations compared to untreated control cells were determined using a 4 parameter curve fits.

Results. In vitro evaluation of both MMAE 1a and 18 the esterase labile prodrug of 2 pyrrolinodoxorubicin 4 revealed these compounds to be highly cytotoxic below 0.2 nM on the CD70 cell lines Caki 1 and 786 O and the CD30 line Karpas 299 Table 7 . Compound 18 proved to be 300 6500 fold more cytotoxic than doxorubicin 15 which is consistent with previous findings for this class of doxorubicin derivatives Farquhar et al. 1998 J. Med. Chem. 41 965 72 . In contrast to 1a and 18 the free carboxylic acid MMAF 1b was signficantly less active on these cell lines with ICvalues in the 100 200 nM range Doronina et. al. 2006 Bioconjug Chem. 17 1 114 124 . The negative charge associated with the carboxylate group of 1b leads to reduced cytotoxic activity presumably due to impaired intracellular access.

In vitro evaluation of cAC10 and c1F6 conjugates of 9a demonstrated that the linker delivered active drug to the target cells with immunologic specificity . A comparison of the activity of the two conjugates on the CD30 line Karpas 299 revealed that the anti CD30 conjugate cAC10 9a titrated to an ICvalue of 0.06 nM drug content where the non binding conjugate c1F6 9a had no cytotoxic activity up to 30 nM the highest concentration tested. The anti CD70 conjugate c1F6 9a was quite potent on the CD70 cell line Caki 1 IC0.45 nM .

The ADCs of 9b effectively delivered b to the targeted cells. Conjugates of 9b displayed immunologic specificity and were highly effective against the CD70 lines Caki 1 and 786 O respectively with ICvalues of 0.08 and 0.20 nM respectively. The corresponding non binding cAC10 9b was inactive on these cell lines representing specificity levels of 250 fold. The anti CD30 conjugate cAC10 9b was highly effective on the CD30 line Karpas 299 with an ICvalue of 50 M. Conjugates of doxorubicin drug linker 17 gave the same general profile with effective cell kill on antigen positive cell lines and specificity values 16 fold.

For the in vivo evaluation two ADCs of the auristatin derivatives 9a and 9b were selected. The maximum tolerated dose MTD of cAC10 9a 4 drugs mAb was determined in female Balb c mice. cAC10 9a was well tolerated at 100 mg kg but toxic at 150 mg kg. Conjugate c1F6 1b was well tolerated at 25 mg kg but was toxic at the 50 mg kg dose. The MTDs of the glucuronide ADCs therefore appear to be comparable to the corresponding peptide linked MMAE Doronina et al. 2003 Nat. Biotechnol. 21 778 84 and MMAF Doronina et al. 2006 Bioconjug. Chem. 17 1 114 124 ADCs that were previously described.

An in vivo therapy experiments with cAC10 9a was undertaken in nude mice with subcutaneous Karpas 299 ALCL tumors. The animals 5 per group were treated with a single intravenous dose of cAC10 9a at 0.5 1.0 and 3 mg kg mAb component on day 14 post tumor implant at which time the tumors were staged mean 70 mm and rapidly growing. Specificity was determined using c1F6 9a as a non binding control ADC that was injected at 3 mg kg dose. Cures were obtained in all animals treated with cAC10 9a at each of the three dosing levels . In contrast the non binding ADC c1F6 9a had no antitumor effect. Since the MTD of cAC10 9a is approximately 100 mg kg the therapeutic index was 200 which is at least as pronounced at the Val Cit PABA based MMAE ADC reported earlier Doronina et al. 2003 Nat. Biotechnol. 21 778 84 .

The effects of c1F6 9b were determined in mice with subcutaneous 786 0 renal cell carcinoma implants Significant levels of antitumor activity were obtained at all three dose levels 0.75 1.5 and 3.0 mg kg again without any signs of toxicity or adverse events . As with the c1F6 9a ADC this was achieved at a small fraction of the MTD.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

No license is expressly or implicitly granted to any patent or patent applications referred to or incorporated herein. The discussion above is descriptive illustrative and exemplary and is not to be taken as limiting the scope defined by any appended claims.

Various references including patent applications patents and scientific publications are cited herein the disclosures of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

