---

title: Shared social asset in game
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for online game cooperation. One method includes an operation for receiving a first request from a first user to place a game asset in a first game board of the first user. The game asset is associated with a task to be performed in the game. Further, the method includes an operation for receiving a second request from a second user to place the game asset in a second game board of the second user. The first user and the second user make progress by interacting with the game asset in their respective game boards. When the first user or the second user receives a transactional reward for interacting with the game asset, the transactional reward is also given to the other user. A final reward is given to the first user and to the second user upon completion of the task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630115&OS=09630115&RS=09630115
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09630115
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130123
---
The present embodiments relate to methods for executing games in a distributed environment and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for player cooperation in a game.

Online games that allow players to interact with other players have become popular. Some online games such as chess or bridge have a small number of players that play together at the same time. Other online games such as Massively Multiplayer Online MMO games can have a large number of players playing simultaneously. Online game operators also referred to as social game operators harness the power of online social networks to design games that closely integrate the players social graph data with their existing friendship connections.

In social MMO games players collaborate in order to play the game and make progress. Interactions between players tend to be burdensome requiring a significant amount of effort and time to perform these interactions. For example if the player wishes to visit a friend s farm the game must exit the player s farm load the friend s farm perform game activities while in the friend s farm exit the friend s farm and reload the player s farm. This substantial effort is an obstacle that hinders online game interactions.

Additionally some games provide challenges to players where the challenges entail the completion of one or more tasks within the game. Each player must perform the required tasks to complete the challenges. As the player completes each challenge the player receives rewards and new challenges are made available to continue the game.

In order to keep players engaged in the game and to foster social interactions within the game a system is desired that would enable easier social interactions while improving the reward mechanism associated with challenge completion.

Methods devices systems and computer programs are presented for playing an online game and allowing player cooperation in the online game. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method for playing a game includes an operation for receiving a first request from a first user to place a game asset in a first game board of the first user. The game asset is associated with a task to be performed in the game. Further the method includes an operation for receiving a second request from a second user to place the game asset in a second game board of the second user. The first user and the second user make progress by interacting with the game asset in their respective game boards. When the first user or the second user receives a transactional reward for interacting with the game asset the transactional reward is also given to the other user. A final reward is given to the first user and to the second user upon completion of the task

In another embodiment a method for playing a game includes an operation for receiving a first request from a first user to place a game asset in a first game board of the first user where the game asset is associated with a task to be performed in the game. The first user makes progress towards completing the task by interacting with the game asset in the first game board. Further the method includes an operation for detecting that a second user has accepted an invitation to cooperate with the first user for interacting with the game asset where the second user makes progress by interacting with a copy of the game asset in a second game board of the second user. A final reward from a plurality of possible final rewards is determined. Upon completion of the task the determined final reward is provided to the first user and to the second user. Operations of the method are executed by a processor.

In yet another embodiment a computer program embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium when executed by one or more processors for playing a game is provided. The computer program comprises program instructions for receiving a first request from a first user to place a game asset in a first game board of the first user where the game asset is associated with a task to be performed in the game. The first user makes progress towards completing the task by interacting with the game asset in the first game board. The computer program further includes program instructions for receiving a second request from a second user to place the game asset in a second game board of the second user where the second user makes progress by interacting with the game asset in the second game board. Further yet the computer program includes program instructions for detecting that one of the first user or the second user receives a transactional reward for interacting with the game asset and giving the transactional reward to the other user in response to the detecting. The computer program further includes program instructions for providing a final reward to the first user and the second user upon completion of the task.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe methods systems and computer programs for improving player cooperation in an online game. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

The Pioneer Trail is a simulation role playing video game available for play on social networking sites. The player plays the role of a pioneer of the American old west and utilizes an avatar which resembles a pioneer. The player may complete collections which may be traded for coins experience points XP decorations livestock trees craftable items energy and horseshoes rare money that can be bought with real money . The player may also finish goals which include tasks such as gathering money buying energy clearing land chopping down trees raising livestock and trees creating items such as beds furniture and clobbering unwanted pests like bears snakes foxes and groundhogs. Eventually the player may acquire a spouse and have children.

Other tasks include collecting from buildings building inns wagons general stores cabins schools chicken coops barns trading posts barber shops churches and sawmills as well as seeding growing and harvesting crops. Coins enable the player to purchase decorations buildings crops trees and animals. Horseshoes which can be earned in game or purchased through real world cash or credit allow the player to buy mules and horses paint buckets hand drills nails bricks hammers etc. These items are essential for completing certain goals. Friends may also gift some items to the player which is referred to herein as a viral interaction.

Crops may be planted and must be harvested before they wither and the crops with longer maturation times provide larger payoffs. Harvesting may trigger encounters with ground hogs which must be clobbered to avoid using extra energy within their area of influence. Clobbering pests and harvesting crops yield coins XP and food. Food can be used to get energy which is necessary to perform some actions in the game. Energy can be purchased in exchange for food or horseshoes. When the player runs out of energy the player must either purchase more energy with food or horseshoes or wait for more energy to build up over time.

Animals may be purchased and harvested routinely for resources or sold outright for a large one time reward. In one embodiment the animals start out as juveniles and must be fed several times to grow into adults. Players can also plant fruit trees such as cherry apple pear peach apricot etc. and their fruits may be collected when the trees reach maturity.

The game shown in includes avatar which can be manipulated by the player such as by clicking the mouse around the play area. For example if the mouse is clicked somewhere far away from the avatar the avatar is moved to the faraway place unless the mouse is clicked on some other game object that causes an in game action e.g. if the mouse is clicked on an animal the avatar feeds the animal .

As the player advances in the game the player acquires assets which can take multiple forms. In one embodiment assets include first virtual currency asset second virtual currency wood asset food asset energy asset sheep asset haystack asset dancing bear asset badges badge collections temporally tiered levels bonuses promotions penalties digital content e.g. image files icons audio files video files gifts tokens honor title rewards invitation permissions avatars rally points diaries footprints trophies competitions engagement modes user difficulty modes e.g. novice intermediate expert stars medals gems pets exploration quests etc. Each asset can be used for one or more purposes. For example first virtual currency can be used during the game to make progress also referred to herein as advancement. The first virtual currency can be used to acquire assets e.g. animals or crops to remove an obstacle in the game e.g. enabling progress that would otherwise be blocked or to complete a task e.g. finish decorating a house .

In one embodiment the online game includes quests which may also be referred to as missions goals challenges etc. Each quest identifies one or more tasks that the player must complete before the quest is considered satisfied or finished. For example a quest may require three tasks chopping down a tree feeding an animal and planting an apple tree. Upon completion of the quest the player is rewarded in some fashion such as by getting a new asset increasing the amount of energy getting more virtual currency etc. As the player completes tasks and quests the game score is increased and as the game score increases the experience level may also increase.

Clicking on inventory icon causes the online game to display a list of all the items or assets owned by the player. In addition clicking on marketplace icon takes the player to a virtual marketplace where assets can be acquired. As described above assets can be from within different categories such as crops trees animals buildings decorations energy special items weapons etc. Each category includes a plurality of assets within the category. For example the animal category includes ducks chickens goats sheep pigs etc. Some of the items within a category can be freely acquired by the player while purchasing of some items can be blocked until certain game condition is met such as reaching some score finishing a quest purchasing the ability to unblock the blocked item etc.

In one embodiment the online game is an online social game which leverages social relationships between the player and other online game players socially linked to the player. For example the player may add a neighbor to the game by inviting a friend from a social networking site. There are several online social networks run and maintained by various companies and any one of these companies can provide access to social graph data. Once a friend accepts being a neighbor a social relationship is established in the game where the game played by the player and the game played by the neighbor can interact with each other. For example the player may visit the home of the neighbor and perform some game activities therein and will be rewarded for doing so. Some of the quests in the game may include social activities that promote the interaction between players. For example one quest may include planting tomatoes in the neighbor s farm. Therefore the social interaction can provide advancement for the player and for the neighbor.

Embodiments presented herein allow a player to place a social asset in the player s game board. As used herein a social asset is a game asset that may be placed in the game boards of two or more players. A player that has a social asset in her game board is able to interact with the social asset without having to visit other player s game boards. Each social asset is associated with the two or more players that have placed the social asset in their game boards and the two or more players are able to interact with the social asset independently of the interactions of the other players with the social asset. As used herein partners or social asset partners are referred to as the players that have placed the social asset in their game board i.e. each player is a partner of the other players for the purpose of performing a task or quest associated with the social asset. The tasks or quest associated with the social asset is referred to herein as a social asset task or a social asset quest.

In the embodiment illustrated in a player has placed a social asset which is a pig in one embodiment in the game board. For description purposes the principles illustrated herein are presented for embodiments utilizing 2 partners cooperating to make progress for a social asset. However the principles presented herein are also applicable to any number of partners e.g. 3 4 5 etc. and the embodiments illustrated should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative. In one embodiment the social asset may be developed by a single player without having to partner with other players.

Associated with social asset a progress bar indicates graphically the progress made in the social asset task e.g. reach a minimum weight for the pig and a timer indicates the amount of time left to complete the social asset task. A partner icon has two states a first state where no partner has been set and a second state where one or more partners have been established. In the first state a graphical icon e.g. a question mark indicates that no partner has been chosen. A message may be presented to the user to suggest the user that the user may invite others to partner in the completion of the task associated with the social asset.

In the second state a different icon is presented such as photograph or icon associated with the partner. In one embodiment the icon corresponds to a profile picture of the partner in a social network.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different social assets quests social interactions number of partners social asset representation etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In operation the social asset is placed on the game board of the player. As described in more detail below with reference to the pig may be acquired in the market taken from inventory or acquired in some other method supported by the game such as by receiving a gift or a random reward etc. After the player places the pig in the board the player has to feed the pig to facilitate the pig growth.

Another way to obtain the social asset is by being invited to partner with another player that has already placed the social asset in her board. In one embodiment the social asset is free to partners since the first partner already paid for the social asset. In other embodiments the partners are also asked to pay e.g. with virtual currency for adding the social asset to their game board although the cost may be different or may be the same.

In some existing social games players have viral interactions with other players that require a player to visit the board of another player. This usually takes a relatively large amount of time for a player since the player has to select the option to visit the friend load the game board of the friend perform operations in the game board of the friend select to go back to the home board and then load the home board again. Embodiments allow players to perform viral interactions via the social asset without having to visit the partners boards because each player has her own version of the social asset in their own game board. The difference with other previous viral interactions is that both partners get a copy of the social asset in their own game board and each partner may interact with the social asset independently.

Additionally the partners are working together towards achieving a common goal. In some other viral interactions a player has a game asset and a friend helps the player in some way but the helper does not get the same rewards as the player that has the asset in her board. Here both players act together to achieve a common goal and both players get the same reward in one embodiment. This provides an incentive to work together and facilitate easy and quick viral interactions. The first partner has an incentive to invite others in order to grow the pig faster and partners have the incentive to cooperate with the first original partner in order to obtain game rewards.

From operation the method flows to operation where hog chow i.e. feed for the pig is crafted. In one embodiment the hog chow is not directly available in the market and the player must perform some quest to obtain the hog chow. For more details regarding crafting hog chow see details provided below with reference to . In other embodiment not shown the hog chow is available in the market and the player may purchase the hog chow directly using virtual currency.

Once the player completes the quest to craft the hog chow the player may feed the pig in operation . From operation the player may go back to operation to obtain more hog chow and continue feeding the pig.

In one embodiment the player has a limited amount of time to grow the pig and once this time expires the pig is ready to be weighed. In other embodiments the pig may also be ready to be weighed under other conditions such as when the pig has reached a predetermined minimum amount of weight and the player selects the option to weigh the pig.

In operation the pig is weighed and rewards are calculated according to the final weight of the pig. Each partner weighs the pig separately but the final weight is the same for all the partners. In addition the final reward i.e. the reward given after the weigh in is the same for all the partners.

From operation the method flows to operation . At this stage the social asset task has terminated. The social asset stays in the board and may be interfaced with the player in similar fashion to other assets that the player has in the game board. For example the player may continue feeding the pig in order to obtain game rewards.

Each social asset has a price which may be specified in some type of virtual currency. In some embodiments there may be other conditions to acquire the pig such as the expertise level of the player etc. Once the player selects a social asset and pays the required price the player is able to place the social asset in her game board. In addition the player is able to invite a partner to raise the pig. In one embodiment partnering is optional because a player is able to raise the pig without having to partner with other players.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different social assets and different tasks. For example the task may be one of raising an animal harvesting a crop building a structure building a car staffing a building or an enterprise e.g. a franchise building a manufactured article solving a puzzle obtaining a collectible associated with a current event e.g. the Olympic Games the Super Bowl the World Series etc. completing a challenge raising a unicorn building a balloon etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the pig growth stages are Petite Pudgy Portly and Plum . In addition at each stage the game may provide a different icon for the pig thereby increasing variability and providing an opportunity for collectors to obtain different types of final pigs. For example in the embodiment of the fourth stage Plump has three different possible outcomes and .

In one embodiment at the end of the social asset task a copy of the social asset is kept in the game. The copy kept in the game corresponds to the stage reached during the evolution of the social asset. For example if a player only reaches the Pudgy stage a Pudgy pig will be kept in the board. However if the player reaches the fourth stage Plump one of the three Plump pigs will remain in the board. Since there are three possible outcomes the player may repeat growing the same social asset in order to collect the three different types of Plump pigs.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different number of stages different number of possible outcomes different number of pigs etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment a game quest is defined to obtain an item required to evolve the social asset e.g. hog chow . illustrates a game quest that requires completion of two tasks to obtain hog chow. The first task is to ground corndog 2 times and the second task is to obtain sugary shortening 3 times. The game defines how each task has to be completed which may involve spending virtual currency asking friends for help completing a collection etc. In the embodiment of once the player completes both tasks the player obtains two units of hog chow. In another embodiment the player may obtain the hog chow by spending virtual currency without having to complete the defined tasks.

Once the player obtains the hog chow the hog chow is added to inventory and the player may use the hog chow to feed any of the pigs that are social assets in her game board.

The interface of is for the My Pigs tab. Here the player is able to see the different pigs owned by the player and information associated therewith such as the name of the partner the progress made to date the stage of the pig an invitation to partner an invitation to start a new pig completed pigs etc.

In one embodiment after the player acquires the social asset the player is able to select the icon placed above the social asset to invite one or more friends to partner. In other embodiments the player may also invite others to partner in the social asset manager from the pig manager interface as described above with reference to .

Once the player selects the option to invite one or more partners user interface is presented to the player. The interface provides the player with several options to select friends such as listing all friends in the social network friends playing the same game players that are friends in the game but not in the social network friends recommended by the game etc.

Once the player selects one or more friends to invite and clicks on the button Send Shared Pig Request the game will send social network requests to the identified players. In one embodiment requests appear as reminders in a notifications area in the social network. For example the request may appear on the left panel of the social network webpage. Sometimes the requests may be grouped by game. In one embodiment each request includes an icon a name of the game or some other identifier and a counter indicating how many different requests have been originated in the corresponding game for this user.

It is noted that the other embodiments may utilize different methods for inviting partners. For example the player may invite others via email text message placing a message in the social network feed etc. Social network feeds appear in the feed section and are posted by the requester in the requester s feed. Friends that have access to the requester s feed will see that the friend is asking to partner. In one embodiment the feed request includes the name of the requester a title for the feed request a message giving details of the help wanted by the friend information about the feed e.g. the time that the feed request was posted and buttons to provide feedback on the feed.

If a friend accepts the invitation to become a partner the game asks the partner to place the asset in her own game board. The social asset in the partner s game board will have a profile picture of the friend that invited the partner. This way the partner knows who the partner is cooperating in the development of the social asset. Both players have access to the social asset in their own game board and both players contribute to the evolution of the social asset. The partners do not compete with each other because the partners obtain the same rewards independently of how much each partner contributes.

If Player A clicks on a shortcut placed by the message shown in operation the method flows to operation where the focus of the game board shifts to the social asset in order to let the player easily interface with the social asset. If the player does not select the shortcut the method flows to operation . Also the method flows to operation after operation .

In operation an indicator is placed next to the social asset informing Player A that the pig was fed by the partner. If Player A clicks on the avatar of Player B or clicks on the shared asset the method flows to operation . In operation an animation of Player B feeding the pig is displayed. If Player B has fed the pig several times the animation may be repeated several times. Also if as a result of the feeding by Player B the pig reaches the next growth stage the icon of the pig will be updated to reflect that the pig is now in a new stage. In addition if the pig reaches the final stage where the pig may be weighed the icon associated with the pig may also reflect that the pig is ready to be weighed to get the final reward.

In one embodiment after the animation is completed the avatar of Player B disappears . In summary Player A sees the progress made by the partner and an animation is displayed to show how the partner fed the pig. Also as a result of the animation Player A gets the goobers and the rewards associated with feeding the pig. In one embodiment Player A gets the same rewards that Player B received for feeding the pig.

In one embodiment there is a limited amount of time to raise the pig e.g. a week although other time periods are also possible . For example the time to raise a pig may be a few hours one or more days several weeks a month several months a year etc. If the final stage is not reached within the allotted time the players get some rewards but the rewards are not as good as the rewards obtained when the pig is raised to completion i.e. the pig reaches a minimum weight . For example it is possible that a player places the pig in the game board and does nothing about the pig at the end the player will get a reward but the reward will be small. In the embodiment shown in there are 4 stages associated with the evolution of the pig. For description purposes a stage is also referred to as a state.

In one embodiment the first four states are the same states previously described above with reference to Petite Pudgy Portly and Plum . The player that first places the social asset in her game board always starts at state 1. However since a partner may join at any time the social asset may have already developed into other state different from the first state. Therefore from operation the partner may go to either one of the different states or .

As the players feed the pig the social asset evolves into more advanced states once the required weight for each state is obtained. In one embodiment since state 4 may have 3 different possible outcomes in operation a random determination is made to select one of the possible pigs for state 4.

At any of the different states if the timer to evolve the social asset runs out the method flows to operation where the pig is ready to be weighed. Once the player selects to weigh the pig rewards are given to the player in operation .

In one embodiment when the social asset task ends an indicator is presented to show that the social asset task has ended. For example in the embodiment of a button with the message Weigh Pig is provided next to the social asset icon but other buttons indicators or messages are also possible.

From operation the method flows to operation where the pig is weighed. In one embodiment the pig is weighed when the user selects an option to weigh the pig but other triggers to weigh the pig are also possible. The final weight of the pig is proportional to the amount of times that the pig has been fed. This means that the final reward is based on the performance by the partners. More details regarding the calculation of the final reward are given below with reference to .

In one embodiment each partner weighs the pig in her own game board but all the partners get the same final weight and the same final rewards although the reward may be given at different times depending on when the partners collect their final reward. In one embodiment the partners also get the same final pig icon but other embodiments may assign different final pig icons to each of the players.

The final rewards may include different amounts of game assets virtual currency energy etc. For example the final rewards may include a Buffalo that may be placed in the game board a cake and a shortcut to speed up growth of a fish but other combinations of rewards are also possible.

In other embodiments the final rewards are not the same for all partners. For example the final rewards may be proportional to the contribution made by each of the partners. This encourages participation by the partners because the final reward will be based on actual participation in the social asset task.

After the social asset task ends and after getting the final rewards the partners keep a tendable version of the pay in the state reached when the social asset task ended. Tendable as used herein refers to the ability of the player to continue interacting with the social asset e.g. feeding the pig .

The final weight is a function of P P t and n where Pis the final state reached Pis the type of social asset e.g. pig tis the time in milliseconds from beginning of the social asset task to the end of the social task and nis the number of times that the pig has been fed in the current state. In addition f f f and fare functions dependent on their corresponding variables. In one embodiment fis a random function that provides a degree of randomness for the corresponding type of social asset.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different variables and or functions. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment weight ranges are utilized to calculate the final reward. After the pig is weighed a prize tier is determined. The prize tier encompasses all pig weights between a minimum and a maximum weight. In the embodiment of the prize tier includes an integer part and a fractional part i.e. digit following the decimal point . The integer part of the prize tier is equal to the state reached by the pig. For example state 2 includes three ranges 2.1 for weights between 100 and 132 pounds 2.2 for weights between 133 and 165 pounds and 2.3 for weights between 166 and 199 pounds.

Once the prize tier is determined the prices defined in the tier are awarded to the partners. In the embodiment of three prizes are given Supplemental Prize A Main Prize and Supplemental Prize B.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different weight ranges prizes a different number of ranges etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the first player P has placed a social asset in the game . Another player P is playing the same game as player P in game . The player P has partnered with player P to cooperate in game related actions associated with the social asset. The player Phas placed a second instance of the social asset in player P s game board.

The game interfaces with game server to perform game operations including game operations related to social assets. A social manager provides social information to game manager e.g. relationships established through a social network or within the game .

Game server is associated with database of user assets. Database includes the list of assets currently owned by each player such as asset list for player P. With each asset there is a list of attributes and parameters associated with the asset. In one embodiment the list of assets includes an asset ID asset type asset name asset creation time icon associated with the asset a plurality of parameters depending on the type of asset a Boolean flag determining if the asset is the shared asset a partner list applicable only to share assets etc.

When two players partner to develop a social asset each player has an instance of the social asset in the asset list because each player places the instance of the social asset in their own game board. In the example of player Phas a social asset SA which is linked to the same social asset implemented for player Pas SA.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different modules computer programs interactions social asset implementations database structures etc. For example in one embodiment social assets are kept in a separate list from the regular assets and each social asset includes information regarding the players having the social asset. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

From operation the method flows to operation where a second request is received from the second user. The request is for placing the same game asset in the second game board of the second user. The second user makes progress in the game by interacting with the game asset in her own second game.

From operation the method flows to operation where the game detects that one of the first user or the second user has received a transactional reward for interacting with the game asset. In one embodiment the transactional reward is given for feeding a pig. In response to the detection the game gives the same transactional reward to the other user.

From operation the method flows to operation where upon completion of the social asset task a final reward is provided to the first user and to the second user.

In one embodiment game server provides a user interface for players to play the online game. In one embodiment game server includes a Web server for players to access the game via web browser but the Web server may also be hosted in a server different from game server . Network interconnects players with the one or more game servers .

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. An example of a social network is Facebook but it is possible to have other embodiments implemented in other social networks. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation community server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

