---

title: Methods and systems for order set processing and validation
abstract: Methods and systems for validating order sets that are to be exported are described. Such order set validation may optionally be performed in substantially real-time. A content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set is provided for display. A user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported is received. A user edit with respect to the order set is detected and a validation rule is accessed. The rule is applied to the edited order set to obtain a validation evaluation, optionally in substantially real-time, indicating whether the edited order set is ready for export to the target format, and a corresponding validation notification is provided for display via the content editor. The order set may be exported to the user selected target format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424238&OS=09424238&RS=09424238
owner: Zynx Health Incorporated
number: 09424238
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130718
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety under 37 CFR 1.57.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the patent and trademark office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is generally related to order set and plan of care processing and in particular to methods and systems for exporting an order set or plan of care.

Recently electronic provision and management of order sets have been implemented. An order set generally includes a grouping of orders and enables standardization of the ordering process for a common clinical scenario such as might occur in a hospital setting. Examples of order sets include admission order sets for use in admitting a patient to a given service or venue diagnosis order sets for use in standardizing care orders for respective common clinical diagnoses and convenience order sets for use in standardizing orders for respective clinical goals e.g. a treatment procedure . A library of order sets may include order sets covering disease related groups and symptoms for various populations e.g. females males adults and children .

In many instances it may be necessary to export order sets from one system to another system such as a Computerized Provider Order Entry CPOE system or an electronic health record EHR system. However after the export operation is performed it may not be possible to import the exported file to the target system because of unmapped terms or other integration issues. Thus conventionally it may be necessary to manually guess as to why the exported order set was not imported into the target system manually guess at what changes need to be made to the order set to permit the order set to export properly make those edits to the order set via an editing program export the edited order set determine if the exported edited order set was imported into the target system and if not repeat the process as many times as needed until the order set can be imported to the target system. The foregoing conventional process is time consuming expensive and may result in numerous errors.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods of validating documents such as order sets for export to target systems and formats such as Computerized Provider Order Entry CPOE systems and electronic health record EHR systems and respective formats.

Such order set validation may optionally be performed in substantially real time. A content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set is provided for display on a display device. A user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported is detected. A user edit with respect to the order set is detected and an export validation rule is accessed. The rule is applied to the edited order set to obtain a validation evaluation optionally in substantially real time indicating whether the edited order set is ready for export to the target format. A corresponding validation notification is provided for display via the content editor. The order set may be exported to the user selected target format.

An example embodiment provides a method of processing order sets the method comprising providing for display on a user terminal a content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set receiving at a computer system a user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported detecting by the computer system a user edit with respect to the order set in substantially real time accessing by the computer system at least a first validation rule from memory storing a plurality of validation rules the plurality of order set validation rules include one or more mapping rules for mapping terms in a source catalog to terms used by the user selected target format accessing by the computer system a first version of the order set without the user edit applying by the computer system in substantially real time the user edit to the first version of the order set to generate an edited order set applying by the computer system in substantially real time the first validation rule to the edited order set to obtain a validation evaluation indicating whether the edited order set is ready for export to the target format based at least in part on the validation evaluation providing by the computer system in substantially real time a corresponding validation notification for display via the content editor and after determining that the order set is ready for export exporting by the computer system the order set including at least one user edit to the user selected target format. Optionally the user terminal may comprise or be in communication with a web based client and certain embodiments may provide synchronization validation for such a client such as for a web application programming interface client.

Another embodiment provides a method of processing order sets the method comprising providing by a computer system for display on a display device a content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set receiving by the computer system a user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported detecting by the computer system a user edit with respect to the order set in substantially real time accessing by the computer system at least a first validation rule applying by the computer system in substantially real time the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit evaluating by the computer system whether an integration issue exists with respect to the target format based at least in part on the application of the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit based at least in part on the evaluation providing by the computer system in substantially real time a validation notification for display and after providing the notification for display exporting the order set including at least one user edit to the user selected target format.

Another embodiment provides a transitory computer readable media storing instructions that when executed by a computer system are configured to cause the computer system to perform operations comprising providing for display on a display device a content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set receiving a user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported detecting a user edit with respect to the order set in substantially real time accessing at least a first validation rule applying by the computer system in substantially real time the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit evaluating whether an integration issue exists with respect to the target format based at least in part on the application of the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit based at least in part on the evaluation providing in substantially real time a validation notification for display and after providing the notification for display exporting the order set including at least one user edit to the user selected target format.

Another embodiment provides an order set processing system comprising a computing system non transitory computer readable media storing instructions that when executed by the computer system are configured to cause the computer system to perform operations comprising providing for display on a display device a content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set receiving a user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported detecting a user edit with respect to the order set in substantially real time accessing at least a first validation rule applying by the computer system in substantially real time the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit evaluating whether an integration issue exists with respect to the target format based at least in part on the application of the first validation rule to the order set including the user edit based at least in part on the evaluation providing in substantially real time a validation notification for display and after providing the notification for display exporting the order set including at least one user edit to the user selected target format.

An example embodiment provides a method of processing order sets the method comprising optionally providing for display on a user terminal a content editor user interface configured to enable a user to create or edit an order set. Optionally a user selection of a target format to which the order set is to be exported may be received. Optionally a user edit with respect to the order set may be detected optionally in substantially real time. A first validation rule may be accessed from a memory storing a plurality of validation rules the plurality of order set validation rules include one or more mapping rules for mapping terms in a source document e.g. a catalog to terms used by another format e.g. the user selected target format . Optionally a first version of the order set without the user edit is accessed. Optionally the user edit to the first version of the order set is applied to generate an edited order set. The first validation rule to the edited order set may be applied optionally in substantially real time to obtain a validation evaluation indicating whether the edited order set is ready for export to the target format. Based at least in part on the validation evaluation a corresponding validation notification may be provided for display optionally in substantially real time via the content editor. After determining that the order set is ready for export the order set may be exported optionally including at least one user edit to the target format e.g. the user selected target format . Optionally the user terminal may comprise or be in communication with a web based client and certain embodiments may provide synchronization validation for such a client such as for a web application programming interface client. A system may be provided configured to execute the foregoing method.

Systems and processes for managing documents such as order set and plan of care documents are described herein. As further described herein certain embodiments enable the validation of an order set or plan of care via a content editor prior to exporting the order set or plan of care to a different format for use by a target system.

As similarly discussed above electronic provision and management of order sets have been conventionally implemented. An order set generally includes grouping of orders and enables standardization of the ordering process for a common clinical scenario such as might occur in a hospital setting. For example an order set may include a group of interventions that are specific to a condition or procedure and pertain to a venue of care e.g. a clinical location such as an intensive care unit an emergency department etc. . Thus as noted above examples of order sets include admission order sets for use in admitting a patient to a given service or venue diagnosis order sets for use in standardizing care orders for respective common clinical diagnoses convenience order sets for use in standardizing orders for respective clinical goals e.g. a treatment procedure etc. For example the order sets may cover various disease related groups and symptoms for females males adults and children. Preferably the order sets are evidenced based.

Certain embodiments described herein facilitate the use of controlled terminology in the use of order sets to reduce or eliminate the use of freeform or natural language terminology. While natural language permits great complexity in communicating information it also introduces a great deal of ambiguity and confusion. For example different users may use different terminology or abbreviations for the same item. Such confusion can lead to unacceptable results when communicating orders regarding medical treatment medications dosages and the like. Certain embodiments described herein facilitate the use of standardized terminology by mapping terms in a source order set to terms of local client catalogs national electronic medical records catalogs or other standardized terminology sources. Such mapping of standardized terminology enables users to export customized order sets to a target electronic medical records system without losing semantic meaning in the clinical content. Certain embodiments may provide synchronization validation for web based clients such as for web application programming interface API clients.

An electronic order set in accordance with certain embodiments herein may be hierarchical and may include one or more sections. An order set section may be used to organize order detail items within the order set. A detail may include a further description or clarification of certain concepts for an activity in a plan of care a medication order item in an order set or a non medication order item in an order set. By way of illustration an order may be a type of drug or medication a type of test a type of treatment and an order detail may specify details for the order. For example a drug detail may specify dosage dosage unit or dosage frequency. Sections may also be used to organize items in a plan of care. Non limiting examples of order set sections include condition vital signs activity nursing orders patient caregiver education respiratory diet IV fluids medications blood bank laboratory radiology diagnostic tests specialty consults non categorized etc. An order set section may contain subsections and one or more levels of sub subsections.

A plan of care addressing a specific patient problem may include such sections as a goal section containing expected outcomes an intervention section etc. The intervention section may contain subsections e.g. reminders activities checklist details . Similarly the goal section may contain subsections.

An order set or order set section and a plan of care or plan of care section may include one or more item details. In certain embodiments an order set may include one or more evidence links or other links.

A given order set or plan of care may be provided in the form of a template which may be customized by a given user organization via a content management system.

An example content management system may be utilized to create and edit orders sets to manage the order sets and to provide order set version control and maintenance. The customization for a given order set or order set template may optionally be performed collaboratively by multiple users such as multiple clinicians or by a single user. A user may build an order set and or customize an order set by adding deleting or modifying specific order items.

The content management system may be utilized to map order set terms to local client catalogs national electronic medical records catalogs and or other standardized terminology sources used by a target system to permit the order sets to be exported to the target system while maintaining the semantic meaning in the order set clinical content.

Certain embodiments of the content management system described herein enable a user to validate an order set during the development phase for export to a Computerized Provider Order Entry CPOE system using a compatible format an Electronic Health Record EHR system using a compatible format or other target system and format. The export validation process may utilize validation rules to identify items in the order set that will prevent the order set from being properly exported to or imported by the target system and may provide corresponding warnings error notifications to the user.

For example export validation may identify missing or inactive catalog terms ambiguous term mappings unsupported export fields missing details needed for export character strings that are too long improper values and or other integration errors that will or may prevent integration with the CPOE or EHR system. Thus certain embodiments detect order set items that will not integrate with the target system prior to export of the order set to the target system. In addition to diagnosing potential export issues up front the export validation process may suggest to the user via a user interface corrective action prior to export and while the user is accessing a content editor. The user may then take such corrective action via the content editor prior to export of the order set the system may then analyze the corrective action and if such action solves the export issue the system indicates the order set is ready for export. The user may then instruct the system to export the order set and the system performs the export.

Thus export validation process may identify potential integration barriers deploying warning and error icons that provide the user with the opportunity to address problems and issues via the content editor during the order set development phase rather than after attempting to import the order set into a target system.

Optionally the user may be provided a control via which the user can turn off validation checking for the entire order set or by a selected validation rule for a given term or section. For example a user may want to turn off validation using a first validation rule if the user believes that the first rule is no longer needed because another more accurate or relevant rule is implemented and being used to validate the order set section. Similarly if a user wishes to print an order set without exporting the order set there may be no need to perform export validation and so export validation may be disabled for printing.

As noted above terms from a source catalog may be mapped to terms used by a target system or format. Certain embodiments provide local mapping and global mapping of terms. Global mapping enables the removal of integration errors e.g. caused by unmapped terms across multiple or all order sets being managed by the system having the same issue e.g. the same unmapped term . Such global mapping provides a more efficient integration of content into the electronic health record EHR system or Computerized Provider Order Entry CPOE system facilitating a more streamlined approach to delivering evidence based clinical decision support CDS to the point of care. Local mapping may be used to map an order detail of a specific order set to another term without changing the mapping for other order sets. Certain embodiments enable the mapping and mapping overrides to be performed via the content editor user interface further streamlining the order set generation and customization process.

At state the validation service controller receives the edit command and metadata. At state the validation service controller uses the order set identifier to access the current version pre edit of the corresponding order set from a content tree repository which may be in the form of a database. At state the validation service controller retrieves the order set tree including a defined structure of the order set e.g. order set order set section order set section orders order set section order details etc. . The user edit commands are applied to the order set tree if needed. At state the validation service controller uses the export format identifier to access and retrieve the corresponding export format validation rules from a rules depository. At state the validation service controller applies the retrieved rules to the edited order set tree and determines if there are any rule violations e.g. indicating that the user edit will or may prevent the edited order set from being successfully exported to the selected format . The validation service controller may also access a terminology service which interfaces to and accesses various terminology catalogs e.g. from client EHR systems and provides mapping facilities for mapping such client terminology catalogs to the terminology catalog provided by the provider of the order set. The validation service may store the state of a given term e.g. whether it s active or not and the state of its semantic readiness e.g. whether it s mapped or not . The term state information may be accessed and used by the validation service controller in applying the rules e.g. a rule which states that a term needs to be mapped to another term or a rule which states that a term needs to be mapped to an active term .

The validation service controller generates and provides a validation response including notifications such an identification of any validation issues e.g. errors and warnings suggested corrective actions and or an indication that the order set has been validated as ready for export. The validation service controller may also provide the edited order set tree structure and or just the tree changes.

At state the validation response and edit order set or order set changes are provided to the event channel. At state the validation response and order set changes are transmitted to an indicator component which presents the validation notifications and order tree edits to the user via the content editor.

Optionally the edit commands may be continuously streamed to the validation service controller. Optionally to enhance the user experience a threshold number of commands need to be received prior to the validation process being performed. For example for content edits at least a minimum number greater than one of characters may need to be changed deleted or added prior to the validation processing being performed. Optionally a buffer is used to buffer edit commands and the validation process is performed periodically e.g. every 500 ms on the buffered edit commands rather than continuously.

If an error export issue is detected a corresponding validation notification may be provided to the user. If the user takes corrective action the process will detect in substantially real time the corrective action as another edit command and the validation process is performed as similarly discussed above. If the process determines that the user action has resolved the export issue the process provides an indication in substantially real time that the issue has been resolved e.g. by removing the previous notification and or indicating that the order set is ready for export . The user may then instruct the system to export the order set and the order set is exported to the target format system. Certain embodiments may optionally interact with a client such as a web based client via an API. Thus certain embodiments may provide synchronization validation for clients such a web based API client e.g. where data edits are communicated from to the client via an API and where data communicated via the API may be displayed via the client to the user .

In certain embodiments the content editor user interface enables a user to develop and edit an order set from scratch from an existing order set which may be an order set template or from a copy of existing order set. The validation process may be automatically enabled or the user may manually enable validation by activating a corresponding control.

As similarly discussed above when the validation process detects an error or potential integration issue it generates a notification which is presented displayed to the user. Advantageously in certain embodiments this enables the user to correct the error integration issue without having to navigate away from the content editor and prior to actually exporting the order set to a target system or importing the order set into the target system.

Depending on the type and or severity of the error or integration issue detected if any a notification from a set of notifications may be selected by the validation process for presentation to the user. The selected notification can indicate the level of severity of an integration issue or the lack of an integration issue. Non limiting examples of notifications are as follows 

The foregoing notifications may optionally be presented in conjunction with text describing in greater detail the cause of the integration issue and or techniques to rectify the integration issue.

Notifications regarding more severe issues may be given precedence or emphasis in presentation relative to notifications for less severe issues. For example for a collapsed order set section a notification indicator for a more severe issue may be displayed in association with the collapsed section and a notification indicator for a less severe issue may not be displayed unless the collapsed section is expanded. By way of further example if the notifications are presented in a list format by the system the more severe notifications may be positioned towards the top of the list and the less severe notifications may be presented towards the bottom of the list. In addition or instead the more severe notifications may be presented with a more noticeable color e.g. red than a less severe notification which may be presented in yellow while a ready to export notification may be presented in a color that indicates there is no issue e.g. green . Different icons may be used for respective different severity levels.

By way of illustration if an error prevent export is detected the system may present a will not export error message. For example if an order set term cannot be mapped to a target format system the following error message may be presented 

The foregoing suggested corrective action select a custom catalog term instructs the user to select an acceptable catalog term from a term catalog in place of the term currently included in the order set.

An example of a warning message that may be displayed if a certain field is populated is as follows Field will not export. 

In the foregoing example the message is a warning message because it may not be necessary for the field to export. For example the field may be a free form comment field that is not needed by the target system.

Additional example integration issues and corresponding notifications will be discussed elsewhere herein.

Optionally in certain embodiments even if an export error is detected and a will not export notification is provided the user may still instruct the system to export the order set. However certain terms sections or details may be excluded from the exported order set and or may be ignored by the target system when importing the exported order set. In other embodiments the user may be prevented from instructing the system to export an order set with certain types of errors e.g. by disabling the export control .

In certain embodiments a content editor such as that illustrated in is presented by the content management system for display on a user terminal e.g. a dumb terminal a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone an interactive television etc. connected to or part of the content management system. The content editor user interface includes a format selection menu A via which the user can select an export format which in certain example embodiments will automatically enable validation checking and cause the validation system to monitor user edits of the order set and to detect whether a user edit or other factor may cause an export error with respect to the selected format. For example the user may specify a format associated with a specified type and or version of a CPOE system or an EHR system. The validation process will access corresponding rules and will determine whether the order set includes a parameter that will prevent or hinder export to and integration with the selected CPOE system or EHR system.

The set of export formats included in the format selection menu may be configured differently for different users entities to correspond to the target formats systems available to a given user entity. Optionally if an export format is not configured or if a user selected an export format off function then the export function will not be displayed to the user so as not to distract the user when the user is not going to request an export of an order set.

Referring now to an example content editor user interface is presented wherein a discharge order set for abdominal aneurysm repair is being developed.

An order set menu B enables the user to select an order set from categories of order sets. A command menu B provides order set commands such as expand all collapsed sections subsections collapse all sections subsections print view to preview what the order set will look like when printed export view import new version check order set in undo checkout etc. The user interface may include an order set content grid area B including sections and subsections.

Positioned near the top of the user interface is a notification summary B regarding the export validation status of the order set. The notification summary B may indicate the type s and or overall quantities of errors warnings detected by the validation process. In this example the notification summary B indicates that there are one or more errors that must be corrected prior to export. Optionally the summary may indicate how many of each error warning notification types are pending e.g. There are 3 errors that must be corrected prior to export and 2 warning conditions indicating issues that may need to be corrected prior to export .

The order set sections areas may be presented in a collapsed format in the content grid area B to enable the user to view many or all the available sections areas at once and to enable the user to select which order set content is shown or hidden on the user interface. The user can expand all order set sections or selected order set sections e.g. by clicking on an expand control and the system will display items with error warning indicators if any on the content grid. The user can then edit a given section item and correct items that have associated error or warning indications.

Referring back to in the content grid area B an error icon B is presented in conjunction with an activity section B. The user can click on or otherwise select the activity section B to expand the section for editing via the editing workspace user interface B.

The error icon is displayed in the content editor user workspace interface B with a message clearly explaining the cause of the error a maximum of 2 section levels is permitted . The system also determines one or more corrective actions that the user may take to rectify the error and provides the user with corresponding instructions on how to correct the error e.g. sections more than 2 levels deep must be reformatted . The system may also notify the user of corrective action the system will take in the absence of appropriate user corrective action. For example if the maximum acceptable character string length of the target system is 40 characters for a given term the system may notify the user that the system will truncate the character string to 40 characters and then the system may take such corrective action. By way of further example if a term in the order set is not mapped to a term in the target format client catalog the system may create a mapping e.g. to a medication detail string and notify the user of the mapping.

Other tabbed user interfaces e.g. notes tasks performance measures user interfaces may be available as well.

In the example content editor user interface illustrated in the validation process has detected a relatively more severe issue that will prevent the order set from being exported and a less severe issue that may prevent the order set from being exported. The system generates and presents a notification summary C and an error notification icon C in the grid area in the acetaminophen subsection of analgesics and a message C in the workspace area corresponding to the issue that will prevent the order set from being exported terms will not export select a custom catalog term . In addition the system generates and presents warning notifications C and messages field will not export corresponding to the less severe issues that may prevent the order set from being exported. In this example because there are both error and warning issues for an item the error indicator takes precedence over the warning indicator and the error indicator appears in front of the order set item at issue on the content editor content grid while the warning indicators are not displayed in the grid.

After the user takes corrective action by making an appropriate edit with respect to an item associated with a warning or error notification the system may in substantially real time analyze the edited item and or the order set as a whole and if no further errors warnings are detected provide a corresponding notification to the user e.g. a ready to export notification . Optionally the system will maintain the presentation of the warning or error indicators until the user saves the corrected order set to the order set data store e.g. by activating a save control and then will remove the indicators for the corrected items from the user interface. This ensures that the corrective edits are saved and will be used when exporting the order set.

Following are non limiting examples of integration issues that the system may be configured to detect and in some cases example notifications provided by the system e.g. via the content editor user interface 

Too many characters. For example the target system may only be capable of receiving character strings of no greater than a specified number for a given term or for a combined length of multiple fields or names e.g. the name of a section and its subsections . By way of illustration if the maximum length of a section and its subsections may not exceed 80 characters the following notification may be provided A maximum of 80 characters is allowed for a section and its sub section name. If you do not reduce the number of characters to 80 or less the name s will be truncated to 80 characters. 

Multiple mappings of term. For example if a given term in the order set maps to more than one term in the target system as might occur via erroneous mapping performed manually by a user the mapping may not be what the user desires. The following notification may be provided This detail is mapped to more than one vocabulary term. This could have an unintended effect on export. 

Target system does not support bundles. If a bundle a group of items that must be ordered together rather than items that may optionally be ordered together or may be ordered independently is included in the order set and the target system does not support bundles the following notification may be provided Bundle is not supported for export. 

Term not mapped. If a vocabulary term in the order set in not mapped to a vocabulary term in the target system catalog the following notification may be provided Term not mapped. 

Medication detail not mapped. If a medication detail e.g. dose strength does unit solution rate solution rate unit in the order set is not mapped to a term in the target system catalog the following notification may be provided This detail is not mapped. 

Medication detail not mapped to orderable medication. If a medication detail in the order set is not mapped to an orderable medication in the target system catalog the following notification may be provided Medication detail not mapped to an orderable medicine. 

Override detail not mapped. If an override detail e.g. dose strength does unit solution rate solution rate unit in the order set is not mapped to a term in the target system catalog the following notification may be provided This override detail is not mapped. 

Medication detail mapped to inactive term. If a medication detail e.g. dose strength does unit solution rate solution rate unit in the order set is mapped to an inactive term in the target system catalog the following notification may be provided Medication detail mapped to inactive term. 

Medication detail overridden with inactive term. If a medication detail e.g. dose strength does unit solution rate solution rate unit in the order set is overridden with an inactive term the following notification may be provided Override mapped to inactive term. 

Input value not supported. If an input value inserted into a field e.g. a workplace defined field WDF is not supported for export the following notification may be provided Field not supported for export. 

Detail not supported. If a user adds a new detail to the order set e.g. a free text term that is not exportable the user may be notified that the detail will not be exported Optionally the order set as a whole may still be exported but the detail at issued may be excluded from the export or it may be ignored when the exported order set is uploaded to the target system .

Mapping cannot be completed. If a user unsuccessfully attempts to map a term to a client catalog term where the mapping may be unsuccessful because the term is already mapped or for a technical reason the following notification may be provided The mapping cannot be completed at this time please refresh the order set and try again. 

Med order detail needed for export. If a detail is needed for export the following notification may be provided Med orders require at least one detail to export successfully. 

User change in order e.g. medication without change in detail. For example if a user changes an orderable medication without changing the corresponding dosage the following warning notification may be provided Detail could be invalid because the order has changed. Please validate the detail. A resolve control may be presented which when activate enables the user to edit the order detail. If the user elects to proceed the order set with the new drug detail is saved.

The notifications and or associated icons may be presented in the workspace in the grid adjacent to the section and or adjacent to item that trigged the notification. In addition or instead the notification may be presented in the notification summary. The system may determine the closest designated error warning area relative to the section subsection and or detail causing a given integration issue and may provide the corresponding notification for display in that closest area.

Example mapping related user interfaces will now be discussed with respect to the figures. As illustrated the system and user interfaces enable a user to map terms for one catalog e.g. a source catalog which may be provided by the same entity that provided the order set template being edited to another catalog or override a mapping during a content editing process using a content editor.

Referring now to a user has begun the process of adding a new order item for a drug acetaminophen to an order set. Because the user has not yet entered any details in the work defined fields WDFs for the drug e.g. dosage strength dosage unit dose form etc. there is no mapping to a vocabulary term from a vocabulary catalog used by the target formant. Therefore the validation process generates an error notification presented in the workspace stating that This item detail is not mapped. The validation process rules may indicate which and or how many details need to be completed e.g. need values entered by the user including alternative options and acceptable value types e.g. numeric alphabetical alphanumeric etc. . For example the rules may specify that both dose strength and dose unit values be specified OR both solution rate and solution rate valued be specified AND that values entered into the dose strength and solution rates fields are numeric.

Referring now to the user has entered a dosage strength of 325. The system searches for a mapped term as indicated by the status notification of Validating presented in the top right hand area of the content editor user interface. In this example the system still cannot locate a mapping and so the error notification is still presented by the system as indicated in . Referring to the user has entered more items into the work defined fields e.g. dosage strength dosage unit dosage form frequency and the system again searches for a mapped term. In this example the system can now locate a mapped item to a vocabulary term from a vocabulary catalog used by the target format. In response the system removes the error notification to indicate the order set is validated and ready for export. A notification is presented indicating that after the user saves the edits the item will be mapped to an identified term Acetaminophen 325 MG TAB is this example . When the user saves the validated order set a ready for export notification is presented.

Therefore as illustrated in the system launches a map detail window listing the MDS being mapped Acetaminophen 325 MG orally 2 times a day and including a search field. The search field enables the user to search for a term to map to from a catalog sometimes referred to as a dictionary associated with the target format. The user can enter a character string and the system will iteratively with each entered character or after at least a specified number of characters present matching terms in a search results area optionally including the term name term type and the vocabulary which contains the term which may be helpful information where multiple vocabularies exist for a given environment e.g. a hospital . The user can select a term from the search results Acetaminophen 325 MG TAB in this example and activate a map control. Next referring to the map detail window is removed and a dynamically generated message is provided reciting the term that the order item will be mapped to once the user saves the edited order set After saving this item will be mapped to Acetaminophen 325 MG TAB . Once the user saves the order set the validation process determines that the order set is ready for export and generates a ready for export message as indicated in .

As discussed above a user can locally override an existing term mapping. Thus a term may be mapped via an MDS a medication or an override. By way of illustration a user may want to select a different medication than is currently mapped to be mapped to a given detail. To accomplish this while editing an order set detail via a content editor user interface a user can activate an override control to override the current mapping. When a user activates the override control an override detail user interface is presented e.g. via a pop up window . The order sentence and the currently mapped term may be presented. Referring to the user can select a catalog term from a mapping window and the system then enables an override control. The mapping window may include a dynamically generated list of active and optionally inactive mapped catalog terms matching characters entered in a search field. An unmap warning notification may be presented to the user. The user activates the override control the mapping window closes as illustrated in and the selected catalog term will be used to override the term in the item detail. Referring to an updated indication is displayed adjacent to the term the item detail will be exported as Tylenol 625 MG TAB updated and optionally the override control will change to a clear override control Clear Override . Activation of the clear override control will clear the override term and the system will revert the state of the catalog term to the state that existed prior to creating the override. For example if the term was previously globally mapped the term will again be globally mapped. By way of further example if the term was previously unmapped the term again will be unmapped.

Referring to an example user experience for mapping an order detail is illustrated. In this example a medication med detail is not mapped and a corresponding notification is provided This item detail is not mapped . In response to determining there is an unmapped med detail the system dynamically includes and enables a map control in the user interface. In this example the user is editing a medication detail and has activated the map control. Referring to a map detail mapping user interface is provided as an overlay in the content editor user interface. The catalog term to be mapped appears in the top left field. A vocabulary term default description is optionally displayed. The user enters a term to search for in the map search field. A dynamically generated list of matching active terms including the term name and term type including mapped and unmapped terms is presented. The terms may be from some or all available vocabularies in the relevant environment but may be limited to the type of term being mapped which in this example are medication type terms. The user may select a term in the list and the term is highlighted and is optionally reproduced below the list in association with an indication that the selected term will be mapped to the medication order specified in the workspace Map vocabulary term ABDOMINAL AORTAGRAM to catalog term prasugrel 2 milligram orally . Optionally a warning is presented in conjunction with the reproduced highlighted term indicating what steps will need to be performed to unmap the term. The system also enables a map control. When the user activates the map control the interface presented in may be closed and the term selected by the user is displayed in the medication detail workspace.

Thus certain embodiments described herein enable a user to validate a document such as an order set being developed for export to another system during the editing process. Integration error and warning notifications may be provided to the user in substantially real time via a content editor during the editing process enabling the user to address such integration issues prior to export and without having to navigate away from the content editor. Using such embodiments the process of developing an editing order sets for export is greatly enhanced as compared to conventional systems.

It is understood that while the foregoing processes and systems are described in the context of order set editing and validation other types of content such as plan of care content may be similarly processed and validated.

While certain embodiments may be illustrated or discussed as having certain example components additional fewer or different components may be used. Process described as being performed by a server system may be performed by a user terminal client or other system or systems. Processes described as being performed by a user terminal or client may be performed by a server system or other system or systems. User and system actions and edits may be undone by the user or system e.g. a user may unmap a determine mapped by the user or system . Data described as being accessed from a given source may be stored by and accessed from other sources.

Further with respect to the processes discussed herein various states may be performed in a different order not all states are required to be reached and fewer additional or different states may be utilized. User interfaces described herein may be presented and user instructions may be received via a user computing device using a browser other network resource viewer or otherwise. For example the user interfaces may be presented and user instructions received via a dedicated application sometimes referred to as an app installed on the user s mobile phone laptop pad desktop television set top box or other terminal. Various features described or illustrated as being present in different embodiments or user interfaces may be combined into the same embodiment or user interface.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. Software can include computer readable instructions stored in memory e.g. non transitory tangible memory such as solid state memory e.g. ROM EEPROM FLASH RAM optical memory e.g. a CD DVD Blu ray disc etc. magnetic memory e.g. a hard disc drive etc. configured to implement the algorithms on a general purpose computer special purpose processors or combinations thereof. For example one or more computing devices such as a processor may execute program instructions stored in computer readable memory to carry out processed disclosed herein. Hardware may include state machines one or more general purpose computers and or one or more special purpose processors.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood with the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are performed in any particular embodiment. Further while certain user interfaces may utilize terms such as must or the like with respect to certain user actions or data such terms are used to illustrate certain embodiments and do not imply that other embodiments require such user actions or data.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein which elements or functions which may be deleted depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

While the disclosure may reference to a user hovering over pointing at or clicking on a particular item other techniques may be used to detect an item of user interest. For example the user may touch the item via a touch screen or otherwise indicate an interest.

Various aspects and advantages of the embodiments have been described where appropriate. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such aspects or advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus for example it should be recognized that the various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may be taught or suggested herein. Further embodiments may include several novel features no single one of which is solely responsible for the embodiment s desirable attributes or which is essential to practicing the systems devices methods and techniques described herein. In addition various features of different embodiments may be combined to form still further embodiments. For example aspects found in different user interfaces may be combined to form still further user interface.

