---

title: Distributed access network discovery and selection function and method of operating the same
abstract: A system and method is provided for performing an access network discovery and selection function in a communication system. An access network discovery and selection function (“ANDSF”) server is operable with a Third Generation Partnership Project (“3GPP”) radio access network and a Wireless Fidelity (“Wi-Fi”) radio access network coupled to a core network. The ANDSF server is configured to communicate with a user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface. The enhanced S14 interface comprises Wi-Fi radio access technology data including a basis service set (“BSS”) load indication, security information, quality of experience information, backhaul network bandwidth and average throughput. The ANDSF server is also configured to provide policy information to the user equipment based on conditions in the Wi-Fi radio access network and the 3GPP radio access network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319975&OS=09319975&RS=09319975
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09319975
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20130131
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 712 630 entitled Distributed ANDSF Implementation filed on Oct. 11 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed in general to communication systems and more particularly a system and method for performing an access network discover and selection function in a communication system.

Mobile operators are experiencing very rapid increases in data traffic and require more sophisticated ways to handle high traffic volumes. Data offloading to non Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP access networks e.g. to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi access networks is one way to reduce congestion in 3GPP access networks. It is not always appropriate however to move all the traffic in one direction. Rather consideration should be given to the status of a target access network a type of data a subscription type an application type and a condition of the access network.

The current access network discovery and selection function ANDSF solution does not address a number of problems. For instance the current ANDSF does not support an architecture where the ANDSF servers are distributed across mobile telephony switching office MTSO locations within a radio access network RAN . A MTSO typically is a central office CO wherein multiple base stations e.g. 300 1000 base stations are aggregated before connecting to a core network CN . The current solution also does not address the relationship between core network ANDSF CNA servers and radio access network ANDSF RANA servers. The current solution also does not address handover between RANA servers when a user equipment UE traverses between two or more MTSOs.

Despite continued efforts these limitations have now become substantial hindrances for efficient wide scale deployment of mobile radio access technology. Accordingly what is needed in the art is an approach that overcomes the deficiencies in the current systems and methods.

These and other problems are generally solved or circumvented and technical advantages are generally achieved by advantageous embodiments of the present invention a system and method for performing an access network discovery and selection function in a communication system. An access network discovery and selection function ANDSF server is operable with a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP radio access network and a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network. The ANDSF server is configured to communicate with a user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface. The enhanced S14 interface comprises Wi Fi radio access technology data including a basis service set BSS load indication security information quality of experience information backhaul network bandwidth and average throughput. The ANDSF server is also configured to provide policy information to the user equipment based on conditions in the Wi Fi radio access network and the 3GPP radio access network.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures or processes for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Corresponding numerals and symbols in the different figures generally refer to corresponding parts unless otherwise indicated and may not be redescribed in the interest of brevity after the first instance. The FIGURES are drawn to illustrate the relevant aspects of exemplary embodiments.

The making and using of the present exemplary embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the embodiments provide many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the systems subsystems and modules associated with an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF .

An access network discovery and selection function will be described with respect to exemplary embodiments in a specific context namely a system and method that includes a process for performing an access network discovery and selection function in for instance a user equipment operable with a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP radio access network and a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network and a corresponding process operable in a server for performing an access network discovery and selection function. While the principles will be described in the environment of a cellular communication network any environment that may benefit from such a system and method that enables performing an access network discovery and selection function is well within the broad scope of the present disclosure.

The ANDSF is an existing component that allows a user equipment UE to choose an access network between a 3GPP telecommunications service and a Wi Fi radio access technology RAT . An ANDSF server and the user equipment communicate with each other so that the user equipment can download RAT selection policy rules defined by an operator. The ANDSF is a 3GPP defined function available since 3GPP Release 8 and continuing to evolve that provides structure to send different policies to a user equipment for network discovery and selection. An example policy is to select a Wi Fi RAT if the UE launches a video downloading application such as YouTube Netflix etc. Communication between the user equipment and an ANDSF server is defined by an Internet protocol based S14 interface between the user equipment and the ANDSF server in a radio access network. A 3GPP S14 logical interface uses ANDSF elements for inter technology network discovery and selection and for facilitating handover of a user equipment between radio access technologies. The S14 interface is described in 3GPP Technical Specification 24.312 V11.50 dated December 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference. The S14 interface is an open mobile alliance device management OMA DM interface that provides parameters for intersystem mobility as well as network discovery information to allow a user equipment to select an appropriate access network based on location access identifiers as well as applications.

Access discovery information is used to provide access discovery information to a user equipment which can assist the user equipment to discover available 3GPP and non 3GPP access networks without the burden of continuous background scanning. Inter system mobility policies ISMP are policies that guide the user equipment to select the preferable 3GPP or non 3GPP access point. The ISRP are used for user equipment that access a single access 3GPP or Wi Fi at a time. Inter system routing policies ISRP are policies that guide the user equipment to select over which access point a certain type of traffic or a certain access point name APN should be routed. The ISRP are used for user equipment that simultaneously access both 3GPP and Wi Fi radio access networks.

Turning now to illustrated is a system level diagram showing an embodiment of high level placement of ANDSF servers in a communication system. As shown in an ANDSF server is located within a CN such as core network ANDSF CNA server and there are multiple radio access network ANDSF RANA servers at the MTSOs e.g. an ANDSF server in MTSOn in a RAN . Each RANA server in the MTSOn has an enhanced S14 interface with user equipment such as user equipment in its respective serving area. The enhanced S14 interface indicates that additional information is added to the current S14 interface. The enhanced S14 interface allows more dynamic frequent and efficient signaling over the interface. The additional information added to the enhanced S14 interface includes Wi Fi RAT data e.g. cell loading backhaul bandwidth operator s identification ID etc. so that the CNA server and RAN server can make informed access selection between Wi Fi and other 3GPP RATs.

Table 1 below lists without limitation Wi Fi RAT data that can be sent by a user equipment to a RANA server .

Turning now to illustrated is a system level diagram showing an embodiment of the relationship between static ANDSF policies received over an enhanced S14 interface between a CNA server and a user equipment and dynamic policies received from an enhanced S14 interface between a RANA server and a user equipment. As illustrated in a CNA server is shown in a core network and a RANA server is shown in a common resource manager CRM . The CRM includes high level solutions for network optimization and improved end user experience enabling all the radio access technologies such as Wi Fi and 3GPP to be seen as one common resource in terms of advanced traffic steering and service differentiation.

As illustrated in the RANA server in the CRM communicates with the CNA server for coordination of policies over a communication link . The RANA server in the CRM communicates with an ANDSF client in a user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface . The communication with the ANDSF client over the enhanced S14 interface includes dynamic ANDSF signaling with near real time capabilities for a user equipment reporting information and for information pushed i.e. initiated by the network back to the user equipment.

The CNA server also communicates with the ANDSF client over the enhanced S14 interface . When the CNA server is not connected to the RANA server in the CRM it retrieves semi static operator policies. The CNA server also bootstraps i.e. requests information from the RANA server in the CRM based on the user equipment s location. In this solution dynamic policy can override a static policy as needed. This allows a flexible level of network control of the user equipment access selection that can minimize signaling when so needed e.g. for stationary or inactive user equipment .

Some guidelines for the relationship between CNA server and the RANA server are set forth below. The ANDSF client connects to the CNA server . Based on the user equipment s location the CNA server assigns the user equipment to a RANA server if available. The CNA server and RANA server thus will have a master delegate relationship wherein the CNA server assumes the role of a master. Once the RANA server takes over the user equipment it has control of ANDSF policy information. The RANA server queries the CNA server to get other policy location etc. information if needed. The CNA server supports the same interfaces to other applications that are supported by the RAN A server .

The RANA server employs the enhanced S14 interface with the ANDSF client . The enhanced S14 interface includes all S14 interface elements and additional Hotspot 2.0 HS 2.0 information which includes reporting of Wi Fi RAT data. HS 2.0 is described in Hotspot 2.0 Release 1 Technical Specification Version 1.0.0 dated May 7 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference. Examples of Wi Fi RAT data reportable over an enhanced S14 interface include a basis service set BSS load indication security information quality of experience information backhaul network bandwidth and average throughput.

Turning now to illustrated is a system level diagram showing an embodiment of an assignment of CNA and RANA servers for a user equipment. Initially the user equipment is situated at location 1 and is served by a CNA server and RANA server . The CNA server in this case fulfills the master role while the RAN server provides the delegate role. Once the user equipment leaves the area served by RANA server to location 2 area that is served by a RANA server and the CNA server the user equipment is handed over to the RANA server . Upon completion of this handover the CNA server retains the master role while the RANA server is assigned the new delegate role. The user equipment then leaves the MTSO area covered by the CNA server and moves to a location 3 which is served by the RANA server and the CNA server . The user equipment now has effectively moved to a new MTSO covered by the CNA server . In this case the RANA server first will hand the user equipment off to the RANA server and the RANA server then will establish a master delegate relationship with the CNA server . The CNA server will assume the master role and the RANA server will be assigned the delegate role.

Turning now to illustrated is a system level diagram showing further details of an embodiment of the network architecture. A RANA server is connected over an interface to a Wi Fi RAT to collect relevant parameters for making an informed access selection decision for a UE . The RANA server is connected to the UE via an enhanced S14 interface as described herein. A CNA server is connected to a policy and charging rules function PCRF via a simple object access protocol SOAP interface . However the protocol shown by PCRF can be based on any other web services WS and or representational state transfer REST interfaces. A CRM is connected to each RAT e.g. the Wi Fi RAT and a 3GPP RAT to have access to their instantaneous load information.

A result of this network architecture is improved use of valuable radio access network resources with minimum impact on a user equipment battery life. Load service and policy can be based on informed traffic steering. A distributed ANDSF arrangement provides a scalable architecture that is fully ANDSF compliant.

Turning now to illustrated is a system level diagram of an embodiment of a communication system including a system for providing an access network discovery and selection function. The communication system may form a portion of a cellular radio access network and includes a first user equipment communicating wirelessly and bidirectionally with a first base station coupled to a radio network controller . The radio network controller is coupled in turn to a RANA server in a 3GPP radio access network. The RANA server is coupled to a CNA server in a core network. The RANA server is also coupled to a Wi Fi access point access controller that provides Wi Fi access for the first user equipment and a second user equipment . The second user equipment is also coupled by a bidirectional wireless cellular communication path to a second base station that is coupled to the RANA server . For the coupling between the RANA server and the second base station and between the RANA server and the radio network controller the respective RANA server may be logically coupled on an SGi interface or the RANA server can intercept communication by some means below an SGi interface. The SGi interface is described in 3GPP Technical Specification 29.061 V12.0.0 dated December 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The first user equipment and the second user equipment are each formed with a transceiver respectively coupled to an antenna respectively. Of course multiple antennas may be employed to advantage. The first user equipment and the second user equipment include a data processing and control unit respectively formed with a processor respectively coupled to a memory respectively. Of course the first user equipment and the second user equipment include other elements such as a keypad a display interface devices etc. The first user equipment and the second user equipment are generally a self contained wireless communication device intended to be carried by an end user e.g. subscriber stations terminals mobile stations machines or the like .

The first base station and the second base station are formed with a transceiver communication module respectively coupled to an antenna respectively. Of course multiple antennas may be employed to advantage. Also the transceiver communication modules are configured for wireless and wired communication. The first base station and the second base station may provide point to point and or point to multipoint communication services. The first base station and the second base station include a data processing and control unit respectively formed with a processor respectively coupled to a memory respectively. Of course the first base station and the second base station include other elements such as interface devices etc.

The first base station and the second base station may host functions such as radio resource management. For instance the first base station and the second base station may perform functions such as internet protocol IP header compression and encryption of user data streams ciphering of user data streams radio bearer control radio admission control connection mobility control dynamic allocation of communication resources to the first user equipment and the second user equipment in both the uplink and the downlink and measurement and reporting configuration for mobility and scheduling.

The radio network controller the RANA server and the CNA server are formed with communication modules respectively. The radio network controller the RANA server and the CNA server also include data processing and control units respectively formed with processors respectively coupled to corresponding memories . Of course the radio network controller the RANA server and CNA server include other elements such as interface devices etc. The radio network controller generally provides access to a telecommunication network such as a public service telecommunications network PSTN . Access may be provided using fiber optic coaxial twisted pair microwave communications or similar link coupled to an appropriate link terminating element. The RANA server and CNA server can be hosted without limitation by a service provider that provides cloud computing over the World Wide Web and may be external to the communication systems of the service provider.

The data processing and control units identified above provide digital processing functions for controlling various operations required by the respective unit in which it operates such as radio and data processing operations to conduct bidirectional communications between base stations radio network controllers and access points and a respective user equipment. The processors in the data processing and control units are each coupled to memory that stores programs and data of a temporary or more permanent nature.

The processors in the data processing and control units which may be implemented with one or a plurality of processing devices performs functions associated with its operation including without limitation precoding of antenna gain phase parameters encoding and decoding of individual bits forming a communication message formatting of information and overall control of a respective communication element. Exemplary functions related to management of communication resources include without limitation hardware installation traffic management performance data analysis configuration management security billing and the like. The processors in the data processing and control units may be of any type suitable to the local application environment and may include one or more of general purpose computers special purpose computers microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and processors based on a multi core processor architecture as non limiting examples.

The memories in the data processing and control units may be one or more memories and of any type suitable to the local application environment and may be implemented using any suitable volatile or nonvolatile data storage technology such as a semiconductor based memory device a magnetic memory device and system an optical memory device and system fixed memory and removable memory. The programs stored in the memories may include program instructions or computer program code that when executed by an associated processor enable the respective communication element to perform its intended tasks. Of course the memories may form a data buffer for data transmitted to and from the same. In the case of the user equipment the memories may store applications e.g. virus scan browser and games for use by the same. Exemplary embodiments of the system subsystems and modules as described herein may be implemented at least in part by computer software executable by processors of the data processing and control units or by hardware or by combinations thereof.

The transceivers modulate information onto a carrier waveform for transmission by the respective communication element via the respective antenna s to another communication element. The respective transceiver demodulates information received via the antenna s for further processing by other communication elements. The transceiver is capable of supporting duplex operation for the respective communication element. The communication modules further facilitate the bidirectional transfer of information between communication elements.

The RANA server and or the CNA server are operable with a 3GPP radio access network and a Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network. The processor in accordance with the memory of the RANA server and or the CNA server respectively are configured to communicate with a user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface. The enhanced S14 interface comprises Wi Fi radio access technology data including a basis service set BSS load indication security information quality of experience information backhaul network bandwidth and average throughput. The processor in accordance with the memory of the RANA server and or the CNA server respectively are also configured to provide policy information to the user equipment based on conditions in the Wi Fi radio access network and the 3GPP radio access network. As discussed herein the processor in accordance with the memory of the RANA server and or the CNA server respectively are also configured to perform other actions or functions in the communication system.

The first user equipment and or the second user equipment are operable with a 3GPP radio access network and a Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network. The processor in accordance with the memory of the first user equipment and or the second user equipment respectively are configured to provide a location thereof to the CNA server in the core network. The processor in accordance with the memory of the first user equipment and or the second user equipment respectively are also configured to communicate with the RANA server or the CNA server over an enhanced S14 interface. The enhanced S14 interface comprises Wi Fi radio access technology data including a basis service set BSS load indication security information quality of experience information backhaul network bandwidth and average throughput. The processor in accordance with the memory of the first user equipment and or the second user equipment respectively are also configured to receive policy information from the RANA server or the CNA server based on conditions in the Wi Fi radio access network and the 3GPP radio access network. As discussed herein the processor in accordance with the memory of the first user equipment and or the second user equipment respectively are also configured to perform other actions or functions in the communication system.

Turning now to illustrated is a diagram showing an exemplary signaling flow to perform an access network discovery and selection function. In particular an ANDSF server in a core network a CNA server or core ANDSF provides information to a user equipment designated UE including an ANDSF client on how to select an ANDSF server in a radio access network a RANA server or local ANDSF . The user equipment is in a coverage area of a heterogeneous network HETNET RAN including the local ANDSF a 3GPP radio access network or access point a Wi Fi radio access network or hotspot and the core ANDSF. A first phase of messaging provides ANDSF intersystem mobility policy ISMP and network discovery subtree retrieval. A second phase of messaging communicates a reception of information on the HETNET. The messaging indicates a unified resource name URN address link and the local ANDSF address. The ANDSF client on the user equipment then connects to the local ANDSF and retrieves the heterogeneous subtree. The third phase of messaging indicates that the local ANDSF takes over. The locally downloaded heterogeneous network subtree contains policies for the user equipment. The local ANDSF sends near real time information to the user equipment including steering commands based on 3GPP and Wi Fi RAN conditions. The user equipment can report back RAN parameters to the local ANDSF.

Initially the local ANDSF is connected to the 3GPP access point without HETNET capability. In a block the local ANDSF accesses the core ANDSF over an S14 interface from which ISMP policies are downloaded. In a block the user equipment enters the coverage area of a Wi Fi hotspot. The user equipment then downloads access network directory information based on its location including HS 2.0 operator policies. The user equipment then connects to the Wi Fi hotspot. In a block the user equipment enters the coverage area of a HETNET. The user equipment sends its location information to the core ANDSF and in response receives the access network directory information. In a block the user equipment employs network discovery information containing a redirect to the local ANDSF and a link to a HETNET subtree to retrieve further information. The user equipment is then handed off to the HETNET and requests a local HETNET extension subtree. The local ANDSF transmits the local HETNET extension subtree to the user equipment and notifies the core ANDSF of the user equipment s association with the local ANDSF. The user equipment reports RAN information to the local ANDSF based on events dictated by the policies downloaded from the local ANDSF. The local ANDSF then pushes policies to the user equipment based on RAN conditions in the 3GPP access point and or the Wi Fi hotspot.

Turning now to illustrated is a diagram showing an embodiment of how an ANDSF managed object a user equipment UE can be updated with information enabling dynamic steering as well as bootstrapping i.e. when a CNA server provides information about a RANA server to the user equipment . A plurality of tree entries are populated by the CNA server. The subtree entries such as subtree entry contain information about HETNET networks in addition to regular Wi Fi radio access network policies. For example the subtree entries can be populated with the user equipment location and bootstrap information associated with the HETNET definition. A plurality of HETNET subtrees are populated by the RANA server. The HETNET subtrees optionally contain ISRP information and contain enhanced ISMP policies providing near real time updates to the user equipment. The user equipment event reporting internal node is populated by the user equipment with event based reporting of RAN parameters.

Thus as introduced herein the ANDSF policy is efficiently signaled which enables optimizing network performance taking into account access network load status of 3GPP and non 3GPP accesses e.g. UTRAN E UTRAN Wi Fi . Policy consistency can be maintained due to the flexible master delegate architecture between the CNA and RANA. Value added use cases are enabled as a result of combining policy event triggers from User Profile and PCRF.

Turning now to illustrated is a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of performing an ANDSF in a user equipment operable with a 3GPP radio access network and a Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network. The method begins in a start step or module . In a step or module the UE connects wirelessly to a network and provides a location to an ANDSF server in the core network CN also referred to as a CNA server . In a step or module the user equipment determines if an ANDSF server in its radio access network RAN also referred to as a RANA server is available at this location. If so in a step or module the ANDSF server in the core network assigns the user equipment to the ANDSF server in its radio access network. In a step or module the ANDSF server in its radio access network communicates with the user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface.

In a step or module the user equipment requests local heterogeneous network extension subtree data from the ANDSF server in its radio access network. In a step or module the user equipment reports Wi Fi and or 3GPP radio access technology to the ANDSF server in the radio access network based on events dictated by an access policy downloaded from the ANDSF server in the radio access network. In a step or module the user equipment receives policy from the ANDSF server in the radio access network based on conditions in the Wi Fi and or the 3GPP radio access network. In a step or module the user equipment obtains a local heterogeneous network extension subtree link to retrieve local heterogeneous network extension subtree data from the ANDSF server in the radio access network. The method then ends in a step or module .

If in the step or module the user equipment determines an ANDSF server in its radio access network is not available at this location the method continues in a step or module . In the step or module the ANDSF server in the core network communicates with the user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface. In a step or module the user equipment requests local heterogeneous network extension subtree data from the ANDSF server in the core network. In a step or module the user equipment reports Wi Fi and or 3GPP radio access technology to the ANDSF server in the core network based on events dictated by access policy downloaded from the ANDSF server in the core network. In a step or module the user equipment receives policy from the ANDSF server in the core network based on conditions in a Wi Fi and or a 3GPP radio access network. In a step or module the user equipment obtains a local heterogeneous network extension subtree link to retrieve local heterogeneous network extension subtree data from the ANDSF server in the core network. The method ends at the step or module .

Turning now to illustrated is a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of performing an ANDSF in an ANDSF server operable with a 3GPP radio access network and a Wi Fi radio access network coupled to a core network. The method begins in a start step or module . In a step or module a user equipment connects to a network and provides location to an ANDSF server in a core network. In a step or module the ANDSF server checks if an ANDSF server in a radio access network is available at this location. If so in a step or module the ANDSF server in the core network assigns the user equipment to the ANDSF server in the radio access network. In a step or module the ANDSF server in the radio access network communicates with the user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface.

In a step or module the ANDSF server in the radio access network queries the ANDSF server in the core network to obtain policy for the user equipment. In a step or module the ANDSF server in the core network hands over the user equipment to another ANDSF server in another radio access network when the user equipment leaves a service area of the radio access network and directs the ANDSF server in the radio access network to transmit to the user equipment an address of the another ANDSF server and the another radio access network. In a step or module the another ANDSF server in the another radio access network assigns the user equipment to the another ANDSF server in the another core network when the user equipment leaves a service area of the core network. In a step or module the ANDSF server in the radio access network directs the user equipment to a radio access technology in response to at least one of change in Wi Fi radio access technology data or in response to change in policy information. In a step or module access network directory information is provided from the another ANDSF server in the another radio access network to the user equipment in response to location of the user equipment to the another ANDSF server in the another core network. The method ends in a step or module .

If in step or module the ANDSF server in the radio access network is not available at this location the method proceeds to a step or module . In the step or module the ANDSF server in the core network communicates with the user equipment over an enhanced S14 interface. The method then ends in the step or module .

Program or code segments making up the various embodiments may be stored in a computer readable medium or transmitted by a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave or a signal modulated by a carrier over a transmission medium. For instance a computer program product including a program code stored in a computer readable medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium may form various embodiments. The computer readable medium may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the computer readable medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory an erasable ROM EROM a floppy diskette a compact disk CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk a fiber optic medium a radio frequency RF link and the like. The computer data signal may include any signal that can propagate over a transmission medium such as electronic communication network communication channels optical fibers air electromagnetic links RF links and the like. The code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet Intranet and the like.

As described above the exemplary embodiment provides both a method and corresponding apparatus consisting of various modules providing functionality for performing the steps of the method. The modules may be implemented as hardware embodied in one or more chips including an integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit or may be implemented as software or firmware for execution by a computer processor. In particular in the case of firmware or software the exemplary embodiment can be provided as a computer program product including a computer readable storage structure embodying computer program code i.e. software or firmware thereon for execution by the computer processor.

Although the embodiments and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof as defined by the appended claims. For example many of the features and functions discussed above can be implemented in software hardware or firmware or a combination thereof. Also many of the features functions and steps of operating the same may be reordered omitted added etc. and still fall within the broad scope of the various embodiments.

Moreover the scope of the various embodiments is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized as well. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

