---

title: Energy-harvesting devices in wireless networks
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure describe communication techniques and configurations for energy-harvesting devices in a wireless communication network. An apparatus may include circuitry to receive, by a network device of a wireless communication network, a message from user equipment, the message including an indication that the user equipment is an energy-harvesting device and circuitry to differentiate the energy-harvesting device from other non-energy-harvesting devices in the wireless communication network based on the indication. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271242&OS=09271242&RS=09271242
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09271242
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130906
---
The present application is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 058564 filed Sep. 6 2013 entitled ENERGY HARVESTING DEVICES IN WIRELESS NETWORKS which designates the United States of America and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 752 386 filed Jan. 14 2013 entitled Advanced Wireless Communication Systems and Techniques the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to the field of wireless communication systems and more particularly to energy harvesting devices in wireless networks.

Mobile networks that facilitate transfer of information at broadband rates continue to be developed and deployed. Such networks may be colloquially referred to herein as broadband wireless access BWA networks. A variety of different device types may be used in broadband wireless technologies. Such devices may include for example personal computers smartphone laptops netbooks ultrabooks tablets handheld devices and other consumer electronics such as music players digital cameras etc. that are configured to communicate over the wireless broadband networks.

Machine to Machine M2M may refer to technologies that allow wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices without any human intervention. M2M may use a device such as for example a sensor or meter to collect information which may be relayed through a network e.g. wireless wired or hybrid to an application that translates the information into meaningful data. The device may be for example a machine type communication MTC device configured to communicate with an MTC server in a BWA network. The expansion of BWA networks across the world and accompanying increased speed bandwidth and reduced power of wireless communication has facilitated growth of M2M communication.

Currently there is growing interest in introducing energy harvesting devices in wireless networks especially for M2M communications in applications where the devices need to be small cheap and are not easily maintained. Current wireless protocols may be designed with an expectation that a client device will have sufficient energy from either battery or connected power supply for communication for communication. However energy harvesting devices may store energy harvested by the device and thus may not have an amount of energy sufficient to communicate with the wireless network in accordance with current wireless protocols. For example in present cellular networks a network scheduler may schedule transmissions based on factors that fail to consider energy storage capability capacity or level of an energy harvesting device which may result in inefficient operation of the energy storage device due to wasted energy lost opportunity to harvest energy potentially failed transmission receptions. For example if the energy storage information of the energy harvesting device is not known at the network the scheduler may communicate with the energy harvesting device at a time that results in lost opportunity to generate and store energy or at a time when energy harvesting capability or storage level is too low to support reliable communication.

Embodiments of the present disclosure describe communication techniques and configurations for energy harvesting devices in a wireless communication network. In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the subject matter of the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term circuitry module or logic refers to is part of or includes hardware components such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a logic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that are configured to provide the described functionality. In some embodiments the circuitry may execute one or more software or firmware programs to provide at least some of the described functionality.

Example embodiments may be described herein in relation to broadband wireless access BWA networks including networks operating in conformance with one or more protocols specified by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and its derivatives the WiMAX Forum the Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.16 standards e.g. IEEE 802.16 2005 Amendment long term evolution LTE project along with any amendments updates and or revisions e.g. advanced LTE project ultra mobile broadband UMB project also referred to as 3GPP2 etc. . IEEE 802.16 compatible BWA networks are generally referred to as WiMAX networks an acronym that stands for Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access which is a certification mark for products that pass conformity and interoperability tests for the IEEE 802.16 standards. In other embodiments communication schemes described herein may be compatible with additional alternative communication standards specifications and or protocols. For example embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to other types of wireless networks where similar advantages may be obtained. Such networks may include but are not limited to wireless local area networks WLANs wireless personal area networks WPANs and or wireless wide area networks WWANs such as cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G 5G and so forth and the like.

The following embodiments may be used in a variety of applications including transmitters and receivers of a mobile wireless radio system. Radio systems specifically included within the scope of the embodiments include but are not limited to network interface cards NICs network adaptors base stations access points APs relay nodes enhanced node Bs gateways bridges hubs and satellite radiotelephones. Further the radio systems within the scope of embodiments may include satellite systems personal communication systems PCS two way radio systems global positioning systems GPS two way pagers personal computers PCs and related peripherals personal digital assistants PDAs personal computing accessories and all existing and future arising systems which may be related in nature and to which the principles of the embodiments could be suitably applied.

User Equipment UE may access the core network via a radio link link with a base station BS such as for example one of base stations etc. in the RAN . The UE may for example be a client device e.g. subscriber station that is configured to communicate with the base stations in conformance with one or more protocols. In some embodiments the UE may be or include an energy harvesting device that is configured to harvest or generate energy for use in connection with communication and or other operation e.g. processing of the UE . The following description is provided for an example BWA network that conforms with 3GPP for ease of discussion however subject matter of the present disclosure is not limited in this regard and the described embodiments may apply to other wireless communication networks e.g. cellular networks that benefit from the principles described herein. In one embodiment the BWA network may represent a cellular network configured to operate in conformance with a 3GPP protocol or standard.

In some embodiments the base stations may include one or more Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNode Bs or eNBs in 3GPP LTE hereinafter eNB station and a UE that is configured to communicate with the BWA network via the base stations . In some embodiments the UE may be configured to communicate using a multiple input and multiple output MIMO communication scheme. The base stations may include one or more antennas one or more radio modules to modulate and or demodulate signals transmitted or received on an air interface and one or more digital modules to process signals transmitted and received on the air interface. One or more antennas of the UE may be used to concurrently utilize radio resources of multiple respective component carriers e.g. which may correspond with antennas of base stations of the BWA network . The UE may be configured to communicate using Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA in e.g. downlink communications and or Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA in e.g. uplink communications in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the UE may be configured to communicate with another machine and be referred to as a machine type communication MTC device. The term MTC device refers to a device that is configured to communicate with another machine without the need for human interaction. For example the MTC device may be configured to communicate with a server of the one or more servers . An MTC device may be as simple as a sensor that is electrically coupled to a wireless transceiver. The wireless transceiver may be configured to communicate with at least one of a WPAN WLAN and WWAN. The MTC device can vary from the simple device to a complex device such as a smart phone a tablet computing device or a wireless laptop which may be employed for machine to machine communication. The MTC device can include a mobile station as defined by IEEE 802.16e 2005 or 802.16m 2009 or user equipment as defined by 3GPP LTE Release 8 2008 Release 9 2009 or Release 10 2011 commonly referred to as Rel. 8 9 10. The term MTC as used herein is also considered to be inclusive of the term machine to machine M2M which is considered to be synonymous with the term MTC. In some embodiments the UE may represent a plurality or group of wireless devices e.g. MTC devices that are configured to communicate with one or more network devices of the core network via the RAN .

While generally depicts the UE as a cellular phone in various embodiments the UE may be a personal computer PC a notebook ultrabook netbook smart phone an ultra mobile PC UMPC a handheld mobile device an universal integrated circuit card UICC a sensor a personal digital assistant PDA a Customer Premise Equipment CPE a tablet or other consumer electronics such as MP3 players digital cameras and the like.

In some embodiments communication with the UE via RAN may be facilitated via one or more nodes . The one or more nodes may serve as an interface between the core network and the RAN . According to various embodiments the one or more nodes may include a Mobile Management Entity MME e.g. SGSN MME of that is configured to manage signaling exchanges e.g. authentication of the UE between the base stations and the core network e.g. one or more servers a Packet Data Network Gateway PGW e.g. GGSN PGW of to provide a gateway router to the Internet and or a Serving Gateway SGW to manage user data tunnels or paths between the base stations of the RAN and the PGW. Other types of nodes may be used in other embodiments.

The core network may include logic to provide authentication of the UE device configuration or other actions associated with establishment of a communication link to provide a connected state of the UE with the BWA network . For example the core network may include one or more servers that may be communicatively coupled to the base stations . In an embodiment the one or more servers may include a Home Subscriber Server HSS e.g. HLR HSS of which may be used to manage user parameters such as a user s International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI authentication information and the like. The one or more servers may include logic that is configured to perform actions described in connection with a network device herein. The core network may include other servers interfaces and modules some of which are further described in connection with . The one or more servers may include over the air OTA servers in some embodiments. In some embodiments logic associated with different functionalities of the one or more servers may be combined to reduce a number of servers including for example being combined in a single machine or module.

According to various embodiments the BWA network is an Internet Protocol IP based network. For example the core network may be an IP based network. Interfaces between network nodes e.g. the one or more nodes may be based on IP including a backhaul connection to the base stations . In some embodiments the BWA network includes a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved HSPA E HSPA or Long Term Evolution LTE network. In some embodiments the RAN may include GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN where EDGE stands for Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or Evolved UTRAN E UTRAN . The BWA network may operate in accordance with other network technologies in other embodiments.

In an embodiment where the RAN is a UTRAN the base stations may represent eNB stations and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs which are configured to communicate with the UE . In an embodiment where the RAN is a GERAN the base stations may represent a base station controller BSC configured to communicate with the UE e.g. a mobile station such as an MTC device via a base transmission station BTS . A downlink DL transmission may be a communication from the base station e.g. base station or to the UE e.g. MTC device and an uplink UL transmission may be a communication from the UE to the base station e.g. base station or .

Communication between the UE and the network e.g. RAN and or core network may be performed according to a variety of suitable techniques. In some embodiments an Application server may be configured to trigger the UE to establish communication with a server of the core network . For example the UE may be triggered to send a data payload e.g. MTC data payload including MTC information such as sensor or meter measurement inventory level etc. to a Services Capability Server SCS . The data payload may be smaller than a preconfigured threshold to define a small data payload in some embodiments. The preconfigured threshold may be set by subscription or network operator policy in some embodiments.

According to various embodiments the small data payload may be sent by the UE to the SCS or Application server via RAN and core network or the small data payload may be sent by the Application server or SCS to the UE via the core network and the RAN . For example the Application server may be configured e.g. by an MTC user to send and or trigger sending of a small data payload to user equipment UE . The Application server may be communicatively coupled with the core network using for example an Internet connection e.g. Internet of . In another example an MTC application that is communicatively or operatively coupled with the UE may be configured to send or trigger the sending of a small data payload from the UE to the SCS and or Application server . In some embodiments the UE is an MTC device configured to send or receive small data payloads and or otherwise communicate with the MTC application . In some embodiments the UE may include the MTC application .

The system architecture may include an SCS which is configured to connect to the core network to communicate with UEs e.g. UE that are configured for small data e.g. MTC communication. The SCS may be further configured to communicate with an Interworking Function IWF such as MTC IWF to trigger communication between the UE and the core network such as for example transmission of a small data payload. In some embodiments the SCS may be an MTC server or include an MTC server and an application server.

The MTC IWF may terminate a Tsp reference point or interface hereinafter reference point between the SCS and the MTC IWF . The MTC IWF may be configured to hide internal public land mobile network PLMN topology and relay or translate signaling protocols used over the Tsp reference point to invoke specific functionality in the PLMN. In some embodiments the MTC IWF may authenticate the SCS before communication is established with the core network and or control plane requests from the SCS are authorized. According to various embodiments the dashed lines between modules e.g. represent a control plane and the solid lines between modules represent a user plane. While a particular plane may be shown between modules other embodiments may include additional or alternative planes.

In an embodiment the MTC IWF may terminate a T Treference point between a module including a Mobility Management Entity MME and or a Serving GPRS General Packet Radio Service Support Node SGSN such as for example SGSN MME . In some embodiments the T a reference point may terminate on the SGSN of the SGSN MME and the Treference point may terminate on the MME of the SGSN MME . In another embodiment the MTC IWF may terminate an S6m reference point between a module including a Home Location Register HLR and or Home Subscriber Server HSS such as for example HLR HSS .

According to various embodiments the T Treference point may be used to send control packet information to a network e.g. a 3GPP PLMN based on an indication from the SCS . The S6m reference point may be used to derive routing information for a downlink communication by obtaining an identifier e.g. 3GPP internal device identifier such as IMSI or Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN from an MTC device identifier or MTC application identifier. In some embodiments the MTC IWF may be configured to trigger communication with one or more MTC devices e.g. UE by sending a paging message with a triggering indication to the one or more MTC devices over the T Treference point.

In an embodiment the MTC IWF may terminate a T reference point between a Cell Broadcast Center CBC and the MTC IWF . The MTC IWF may be configured to trigger communication with one or more MTC devices by sending a broadcast message to the one or more MTC devices over the T reference point and an IuCB reference point between the CBC and the RAN . The MTC IWF may perform functionality of a Cell Broadcast Entity CBE in some embodiments. In some embodiments the MTC IWF may be used to format a Cell Broadcasting Service CBS message including for example splitting of a CBS message into a number of pages for broadcast transmission. Thus a number of CBS messages may be broadcast in some embodiments. The MTC IWF may be configured to broadcast the CBS message through the CBC . For example the MTC IWF may be configured send a broadcast message to MTC devices of an MTC group to trigger MTC devices of the MTC group to wake up if in idle mode and establish communication with the SCS for small data transmission purposes.

In some embodiments the CBC may terminate a Tcbs reference point between a cell broadcast entity CBE and the CBC . In some embodiments a triggering message may be sent by the CBE to the CBC over the Tcbs reference point. For example the CBE may be collocated or implemented as part of the SCS in some embodiments. In this regard the CBC may terminate a reference point between the SCS e.g. including the CBE and the CBC .

The system architecture may further include Gr S Sreference points between the HLR HSS and the SGSN MME reference point Ti between the SCS and the GGSN PGW reference point Application Programming Interface API between the Application server and the SCS reference point S between the SGSN MME and the RAN and reference points Um Uu LTE UU between the RAN and the UE . The reference points are not limited to the example names provided and may be referred to by other names in other embodiments. The system architecture may include other reference points in other embodiments. Communications described herein may take place over any suitable combination of interfaces reference points of the system architecture .

The system architecture may support efficient scheduling of communication with energy harvesting devices to reduce network impact associated with failed communication e.g. owing to potential lack of operating power of the UE signaling overhead or allocation of network resources. In some embodiments one or more MTC devices of a plurality of MTC devices e.g. UE may be attached e.g. by an established Radio Resource Control RRC connection or detached from the RAN when a trigger for communication is sent by the MTC IWF to the plurality of MTC devices. Further one or more MTC devices of the plurality of MTC devices e.g. UE may be in connected mode or idle mode when the triggering indication is sent by the MTC IWF to the plurality of MTC devices in some embodiments.

The network device may include one or more modules configured to perform network actions described herein. For example the network device may include a client energy harvesting and storage information module configured to receive energy storage information from the energy harvesting device and to perform actions in response to the information. The network device may represent multiple modules circuitry and may be disposed in any suitable module in system architecture including any of the one or more servers of . In on embodiment the network device is coupled with or part of the HLR HSS of . The network device may be coupled with or may be part of other suitable network components in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the UE may indicate to the network device that the UE is an energy harvesting device. For example in some embodiments the UE may be configured to send a message including energy storage information of an energy harvesting device to indicate that that the UE is an energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the message may identify one or more of a type of energy source an expected energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability energy storage capacity and or energy storage level. For example Table 1 describes example message content according to some embodiments.

In some embodiments the energy harvesting device may have more than one energy source identified in the Energy Source field and any such combination may be indexed with a corresponding bit value to identify the combination. An energy harvesting pattern may differ depending on the energy source. In some embodiments the Energy Harvesting Pattern field may include an index that corresponds with a particular type of energy harvesting pattern or combination of energy harvesting patterns. The Energy Harvesting Pattern field may be indexed to information of energy harvesting models including for example arrival time and amount of energy a constant rate e.g. joules second for a period of time Poisson process stationary ergodic process or Markov chain model. In some embodiments to improve scalability information about the energy harvesting pattern may be included as part of device capability negotiation between the UE and the network. The message content may include other suitable bit values to provide the information of the message field in other embodiments.

According to various embodiments the energy harvesting device e.g. UE may identify itself as an energy harvesting device and also convey energy storage information using a unique message developed for such purpose e.g. a new RRC message called UE Energy Source Information Message or the like or appending the energy storage information into an existing message e.g. an RRC config or reconfig message or through device capability negotiation which may occur between the UE and the SGSN MME of the system architecture described in . In some embodiments the indication that the UE is an energy harvesting device may be sent in a first message and the energy harvesting and storage information may be sent in a second message that is different than the first message. For example in some embodiments suitable combinations of the techniques described above e.g. RRC message device capability negotiation may be used to separately send the indication and the energy harvesting and storage information. In some embodiments suitable combinations of the techniques described above may be used to separately send discrete aspects of the energy harvesting and storage information e.g. corresponding with the different fields of Table 1 . Other suitable messaging mechanisms may be used by the UE to send the indication and or energy harvesting and storage information.

Communications including for example triggering messages to trigger communication between the UE and the core network messages sent by the UE to indicate that the UE is an energy harvesting device and or to include energy storage information of the energy harvesting device and or communications scheduled based on the energy storage information may occur over any suitable combination of modules and or interfaces in the system architecture of .

Subsequent to receiving the indication that the UE is an energy harvesting device a network device may differentiate the energy harvesting device from other devices that do not harvest energy in the wireless communication network based on the indication. For example the network device may differentiate the energy harvesting device by assigning a value of one or more bits to identify the energy harvesting device. If for example a Device ID of the UE is represented by 32 bits one or more bits e.g. most significant 2 bits may index identifiers e.g. the last 4 corresponding to energy harvesting devices. In other embodiments a network device may differentiate the energy harvesting device by using a Device Type to identify the energy harvesting device. For example the energy harvesting device may be separately categorized by one or more bits so that they can for example be de prioritized for access or other network policy. Setting the Device Type may occur for example by a network device from information obtained from the energy harvesting device at connection set up capability negotiation or other network communication. In other embodiments a network device may differentiate the energy harvesting device by allocating a portion of a Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI to identify the energy harvesting device. For example allocated portions of a C RNTI of UE identity in a cell for an RRC connection RA RNTI for random access P RNTI for paging and or SI RNTI for system information may be used to identify the energy harvesting device in the network.

In some embodiments the network device may differentiate the energy harvesting device by modifying a schedule for communication with the energy harvesting device e.g. based on the indication that the UE is an energy harvesting device . For example the network device may modify a priority or technique e.g. signaling scheme for communication with the energy harvesting device over the wireless communication network or may otherwise schedule communication with the energy harvesting device over the wireless communication network according to energy storage information received from the energy harvesting device. The network device may be configured to schedule communication with the energy harvesting device in a manner that reduces a likelihood of the energy harvesting device losing energy due to leakage or in a manner that reduces interference with energy harvesting opportunities of the energy harvesting device

In some embodiments the network device may be configured to schedule communication with the energy harvesting device using a scheduling policy that takes into account the energy storage energy information received from the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the network device may use an energy harvesting related policy to schedule communication. The energy harvesting related policy may consider energy storage information such as for example energy storage capacity and or energy storage level of the energy harvesting device in some embodiments.

The energy harvesting related policy may be combined with other scheduling policies including for example round robin RR opportunistic OP and or proportional fair PF policies which may be used by the network for non real time traffic. Other scheduling policies that include quality of service QoS requirement may be used in some embodiments. PF may strike a balance between RR and OP policies and provide benefits of both. For example RR may present a fair policy but may not consider throughput maximization. OP may maximize throughput but may not take into account fairness. In some embodiments a scheduler operating according to PF policy may rank and select devices for transmission and reception based on throughput maximization and fairness as represented by the Equation 1 where J is a selected device for transmission reception D t is an instantaneous data rate of device i at time t and R t 1 is an average data rate of the device i until time t 1 max 1 1 

Such PF policy may be combined with an energy harvesting related policy to provide a joint policy that may be used by a scheduler e.g. network device to take energy harvesting related information into account in ranking and selecting a UE for transmission reception. For example in one embodiment a joint policy may be represented by Equation 2 where Erepresents energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device erepresent energy storage level and wand wrepresent weight factors for the energy harvest related component and the PF component respectively max 1 2 

The energy harvesting related component E e E of the Equation 2 may have a value between 0 and 1 for energy harvesting devices and may have a value of 0 for other devices in the wireless communication network that do not harvest energy. The Equation 2 may consider more or fewer factors than depicted. For example in some embodiments the PF component D t R t 1 of Equation 2 may not be used at all e.g. wmay be set equal to 0 . The weight factors wand wmay be determined and or set by the network using any suitable technique to increase efficiency of communication including for example empirical work. In some embodiments the weight factors wand wmay have a value from 0 to 1. In some embodiments setting of the weight factors wand wmay be based on assistance from the UE e.g. via air interface messaging between the UE and the network or . The weight factors wand wmay for example have a particular value for each UE based on energy harvesting information of the UE .

The energy storage capacity Emay not change with time in some embodiments and may be transmitted one time from the UE to the network or e.g. to the network device during device capability negotiation . The energy storage level emay vary with time in some embodiments based on for example any energy harvesting opportunity the UE had in the recent past energy loss due to any transmission reception or processing energy leakage over the lapsed time etc. In some embodiments the energy storage level emay be sent by the UE to the network or e.g. to network device periodically or based on an occurrence of an event. For example the periodic basis or event basis may comport with a period and or events used in connection with transmission of a channel quality index CQI . In some embodiments the energy storage level emay be represented by one or more bits and may be signaled to the network or in scheduled slots e.g. similar to CQI or in an RRC message.

The energy storage information may comprise one or more bits that correspond with a nominal value of an energy storage level of the energy harvesting device. For example as shown in Table 2 the energy storage level emay have an index represented by three bits that correspond with a percentage of the energy storage level. The energy storage information may include more or fewer bits than depicted in Table 2 and or different types of nominal values may be represented in other embodiments. In some embodiments the energy storage level e e.g. as indexed in Table 2 may be part e.g. another field of the message content in Table 1.

At the method may include receiving from user equipment of a wireless communication network an indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device and or energy storage information of the energy harvesting device. The indication and or energy storage information may be received for example by receiving signaling sent by the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the indication and or energy storage information may be received in an RRC message or in a message received during device capability negotiation between the energy harvesting device and the wireless communication network or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the energy storage information may be received periodically in scheduled slots. In other embodiments the energy storage information may be received in an RRC message based on occurrence of an event e.g. a triggering message energy storage level etc. .

According to various embodiments the energy storage information may include one or more of an energy source energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability and an energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device may be in the form of a message that identifies energy storage information e.g. energy source energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability and or energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. The energy storage information itself may serve as the indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the energy storage information may include one or more bits that correspond with a nominal value of one or more of an energy storage capacity or energy storage level of the energy harvesting device

Multiple messages may be received to provide the indication and or the energy storage information. For example in one embodiment the network may initially receive an energy storage capacity E during device capability negotiation with the user equipment and subsequently the network may receive an energy storage level e of the energy harvesting device in a subsequent message e.g. RRC message sent by the user equipment.

At the method may include differentiating the energy harvesting device from other non energy harvesting devices in the wireless communication network based on the indication. In some embodiments the one or more bits may be modified or allocated to indicate that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device. For example in some embodiments differentiating may include modifying a schedule for communication with the energy harvesting device and potentially other non energy harvesting devices . In some embodiments differentiating may include using a Device Type to identify the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments differentiating may include allocating a portion of an RNTI to identify the energy harvesting device. Other suitable techniques and or configurations to differentiate the energy harvesting device may be used in other embodiments.

At the method may include scheduling communication with the energy harvesting device over the wireless communication network based on a scheduling policy that considers the energy storage information of the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the scheduling policy may be configured to consider energy storage capacity and or energy storage level of the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the scheduling policy may be further configured to consider instantaneous data rate and or an average data rate of the harvesting device e.g. in accordance with PF policy of Equation 1 .

At the method may include sending by user equipment of a wireless communication network an indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device and or energy storage information of the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the energy storage information includes an indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device.

According to various embodiments sending at may performed in accordance with one or more of the techniques described in connection with receiving at of method . For example indication and or energy storage information may be sent for example by signaling from the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the indication and or energy storage information may be sent in an RRC message or in a message sent during device capability negotiation between the energy harvesting device and the wireless communication network or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the energy storage information may be sent periodically in scheduled slots. In other embodiments the energy storage information may be sent in an RRC message based on occurrence of an event e.g. a triggering message energy storage level etc. .

According to various embodiments the energy storage information may include one or more of an energy source energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability and an energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device may be in the form of a message that identifies energy storage information e.g. energy source energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability and or energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. The energy storage information itself may serve as the indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device. In some embodiments the energy storage information may include one or more bits that correspond with a nominal value of one or more of an energy storage capacity or energy storage level of the energy harvesting device.

Multiple messages may be sent to provide the indication and or the energy storage information. For example in one embodiment the user equipment may initially send an energy storage capacity E during device capability negotiation with the network and subsequently the user equipment may send an energy storage level e of the energy harvesting device in a subsequent message e.g. RRC message .

At the method may include receiving communication over the wireless network that is scheduled with the energy harvesting device based on a scheduling policy that considers the energy storage information. For example the communication may be received in accordance with a scheduling policy as described in connection with scheduling at of method . The scheduling policy may consider one or more other aspects of the energy storage information e.g. energy source energy harvesting pattern energy storage capability etc. in other embodiments.

Various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

The techniques and configurations described herein may be implemented into a system using any suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired. schematically illustrates an example system e.g. computing device that may be used to practice various embodiments described herein. The example system may represent for example user equipment e.g. UE of or a network device e.g. network device of . illustrates for one embodiment an example system comprising one or more processor s system control logic coupled with at least one of the processor s system memory coupled with system control logic non volatile memory NVM storage coupled with system control logic a network interface coupled with system control logic and input output I O devices coupled with system control logic . The processor s may include one or more single core or multi core processors. The processor s may include any combination of general purpose processors and dedicated processors e.g. graphics processors application processors baseband processors etc. .

System control logic for one embodiment may include any suitable interface controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor s and or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control logic .

System control logic for one embodiment may include one or more memory controller s to provide an interface to system memory . System memory may be used to load and store data and or instructions e.g. communication logic . System memory for one embodiment may include any suitable volatile memory such as suitable dynamic random access memory DRAM for example.

NVM storage may include one or more tangible non transitory computer readable or machine readable storage or media used to store data and or instructions e.g. communication logic . NVM storage may include any suitable non volatile memory such as flash memory for example and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drive s HDD s one or more compact disk CD drive s and or one or more digital versatile disk DVD drive s for example.

The NVM storage may include a storage resource physically part of a device on which the system is installed or it may be accessible by but not necessarily a part of the device. For example the NVM storage may be accessed over a network via the network interface and or over Input Output I O devices .

The communication logic may include instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors cause the system to perform operations associated with methods or as described with respect to the above embodiments. In various embodiments the communication logic may include hardware software and or firmware components that may or may not be explicitly shown in system .

Network interface may have a transceiver to provide a radio interface for system to communicate over one or more network s and or with any other suitable device. In various embodiments the transceiver may be integrated with other components of system . For example the transceiver may include a processor of the processor s memory of the system memory and NVM Storage of NVM Storage . Network interface may include any suitable hardware and or firmware. Network interface may include a plurality of antennas to provide a multiple input multiple output radio interface. Network interface for one embodiment may include for example a wired network adapter a wireless network adapter a telephone modem and or a wireless modem.

For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controllers of system control logic to form a System in Package SiP . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic to form a System on Chip SoC .

In various embodiments the I O devices may include user interfaces designed to enable user interaction with the system peripheral component interfaces designed to enable peripheral component interaction with the system and or sensors designed to determine environmental conditions and or location information related to the system .

In various embodiments the user interfaces could include but are not limited to a display e.g. a liquid crystal display a touch screen display etc. speakers a microphone one or more cameras e.g. a still camera and or a video camera a flashlight e.g. a light emitting diode flash and a keyboard.

In various embodiments the peripheral component interfaces may include but are not limited to a non volatile memory port a universal serial bus USB port an audio jack and a power supply interface.

In various embodiments the sensors may include but are not limited to a gyro sensor an accelerometer a proximity sensor an ambient light sensor and a positioning unit. The positioning unit may also be part of or interact with the network interface to communicate with components of a positioning network e.g. a global positioning system GPS satellite.

In various embodiments the system may be a mobile computing device such as but not limited to a laptop computing device a tablet computing device a netbook a smartphone etc. In various embodiments system may have more or less components and or different architectures.

According to various embodiments the present disclosure describes communication techniques and configurations for energy harvesting devices in a wireless communication network. In some embodiments the present disclosure describes an apparatus e.g. a network device . Example 1 of the apparatus includes circuitry to receive by a network device of a wireless communication network a message from user equipment the message including an indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device and circuitry to differentiate the energy harvesting device from other non energy harvesting devices in the wireless communication network based on the indication. Example 2 includes the apparatus of Example 1 wherein the message identifies an energy source of the energy harvesting device. Example 3 includes the apparatus of Example 1 wherein the message identifies an energy harvesting pattern of the energy harvesting device. Example 4 includes the apparatus of Example 1 wherein the message identifies an energy storage capability of the energy harvesting device. Example 5 includes the apparatus of Example 1 wherein the message identifies an energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. Example 6 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the message is a Radio Resource Control RRC message. Example 7 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the circuitry to receive is to receive the message during device capability negotiation between the energy harvesting device and the wireless communication network. Example 8 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the circuitry to differentiate is to differentiate the energy harvesting device by modifying a schedule for communication with the energy harvesting device based on the indication. Example 9 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the circuitry to differentiate is to differentiate the energy harvesting device by using a Device Type to identify the energy harvesting device. Example 10 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the circuitry to differentiate is to differentiate the energy harvesting device by allocating a portion of a Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI to identify the energy harvesting device. Example 11 includes the apparatus of any of Examples 1 5 further comprising circuitry to schedule communication with the energy harvesting device over the wireless communication network based on a scheduling policy that considers energy storage capacity or energy storage level of the energy harvesting device. Example 12 includes the apparatus of Example 11 wherein the scheduling policy considers energy storage capacity and energy storage level of the energy harvesting device and further considers instantaneous data rate of the energy harvesting device and an average data rate of the energy harvesting device.

In some embodiments the present disclosure describes another apparatus e.g. a network device . Example 13 of such apparatus includes circuitry to receive by a network device of a wireless communication network energy storage information of an energy harvesting device and circuitry to schedule communication with the energy harvesting device over the wireless communication network based on a scheduling policy that considers the energy storage information. Example 14 includes the apparatus of Example 13 wherein the circuitry to receive is to receive the energy storage information by receiving signaling sent by the energy harvesting device the energy storage information includes energy storage capacity and energy storage level of the energy harvesting device and the scheduling policy considers the energy storage capacity and the energy storage level of the energy harvesting device. Example 14 includes the apparatus of Example 13 or 14 wherein the circuitry to receive is to receive the energy storage information by receiving the energy storage information periodically in scheduled slots. Example 16 includes the apparatus of Example 13 or 14 wherein the circuitry to receive is to receive the energy storage information by receiving a Radio Resource Control RRC message including the energy storage information based on occurrence of an event. Example 17 includes the apparatus of Example 13 or 14 wherein the energy storage information comprises one or more bits that correspond with a nominal value of an energy storage level of the energy harvesting device.

In some embodiments the present disclosure describes another apparatus e.g. component of user equipment . Example 18 of such apparatus includes circuitry to send energy storage information of user equipment to a network device of a wireless communication network wherein the energy storage information includes an indication that the user equipment is an energy harvesting device and circuitry to receive communication over the wireless network wherein the communication is scheduled with the energy harvesting device based on a scheduling policy that considers the energy storage information. Example 19 includes the apparatus of Example 18 wherein the energy storage information identifies an energy source of the energy harvesting device an energy harvesting pattern of the energy harvesting device an energy storage capability of the energy harvesting device or an energy storage capacity of the energy harvesting device. Example 20 includes the apparatus of Example 18 or 19 wherein the circuitry to send is to send the energy storage information during device capability negotiation between the energy harvesting device and the wireless communication network. Example 21 includes the apparatus of Example 18 or 19 wherein the circuitry to send is to send the energy storage information in a Radio Resource Control RRC message. Example 22 includes the apparatus of Example 18 or 19 wherein the energy storage information includes energy storage capacity and energy storage level of the energy harvesting device and the scheduling policy considers energy storage capacity and energy storage level of the energy harvesting device. Example 23 includes the apparatus of Example 22 wherein the scheduling policy further considers instantaneous data rate of the energy harvesting device or an average data rate of the energy harvesting device the scheduling policy applies a first weight factor for considering the energy storage capacity and energy storage level of the energy harvesting device and the scheduling policy applies a second weight factor for considering the instantaneous date rate or the average data rate of the energy harvesting device. Example 24 includes the apparatus of Example 18 or 19 wherein the wireless communication network comprises a cellular network configured to operate in accordance with a 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP protocol.

Various embodiments may include any suitable combination of the above described embodiments including alternative or embodiments of embodiments that are described in conjunctive form and above e.g. the and may be and or . Furthermore some embodiments may include one or more methods or articles of manufacture e.g. non transitory computer readable media having instructions stored thereon that when executed result in actions of any of the above described embodiments. Moreover some embodiments may include apparatuses or systems having any suitable means for carrying out the various actions of the above described embodiments.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

