---

title: Downlink control indication for a stand-alone new carrier type (NCT)
abstract: Technology for determining a common search space (CSS) from a physical resource block (PRB) indication for a stand-alone carrier type is disclosed. In an example, a user equipment (UE) configured for determining a common search space (CSS) from a physical resource block (PRB) indication for a stand-alone carrier type can include a processing module to: Determine a PRB set in the CSS from an enhanced physical hybrid automatic repeat request (ARQ) indicator channel (ePHICH) configuration information in a master information block (MIB); and decode an enhanced physical downlink control channel (ePDCCH) or the ePHICH from PRB region candidates in the PRB set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09166718&OS=09166718&RS=09166718
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09166718
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130304
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 646 223 filed May 11 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNode B to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical downlink control channel PDCCH can be used to transfer downlink control information DCI that informs the UE about resource allocations or scheduling related to downlink resource assignments on the PDSCH uplink resource grants and uplink power control commands. The PDCCH can be transmitted prior the PDSCH in each subframe transmitted from the eNode B to the UE.

The PDCCH signal can be designed to be demodulated at the UE based on a cell specific reference signal CRS . However the use of a CRS does not take into account the increased complexities of advanced LTE systems. For instance in heterogeneous networks multiple nodes can simultaneously transmit within a single cell. The use of the cell specific reference signal can limit advanced techniques to increase cell capacity.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The communication of data on the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH can be controlled via a control channel referred to as a physical downlink control channel PDCCH . The PDCCH can be used for downlink DL and uplink UL resource assignments transmit power commands and paging indicators. The PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to a particular wireless device e.g. UE for dedicated PDSCH resource allocation to carry UE specific traffic or the PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to all wireless devices in the cell for common PDSCH resource allocation to carry broadcast control information such as system information or paging.

In one example the PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic 3GPP long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in .

Each slot for a component carrier CC used by the node and the wireless device can include multiple resource blocks RBs and based on the CC frequency bandwidth. The CC can have a carrier frequency having a bandwidth and center frequency. Each subframe of the CC can include downlink control information DCI found in the legacy PDCCH. The legacy PDCCH in the control region can include one to three columns of the first OFDM symbols in each subframe or RB when a legacy PDCCH is used. The remaining 11 to 13 OFDM symbols or 14 OFDM symbols when legacy PDCCH is not used in the subframe may be allocated to the PDSCH for data for short or normal cyclic prefix .

The control region can include physical control format indicator channel PCFICH physical hybrid automatic repeat request hybrid ARQ indicator channel PHICH and the PDCCH. The control region has a flexible control design to avoid unnecessary overhead. The number of OFDM symbols in the control region used for the PDCCH can be determined by the control channel format indicator CFI transmitted in the physical control format indicator channel PCFICH . The PCFICH can be located in the first OFDM symbol of each subframe. The PCFICH and PHICH can have priority over the PDCCH so the PCFICH and PHICH are scheduled prior to the PDCCH.

Each RB physical RB or PRB can include 12 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and 6 or 7 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols on the time axis per slot. The RB can use seven OFDM symbols if a short or normal cyclic prefix is employed. The RB can use six OFDM symbols if an extended cyclic prefix is used. The resource block can be mapped to 84 resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to 72 REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz .

Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or 64 QAM to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

Each wireless device may use at least one bandwidth. The bandwidth may be referred to as a signal bandwidth carrier bandwidth or component carrier CC bandwidth as illustrated in . For example the LTE CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers.

The data carried on the PDCCH can be referred to as downlink control information DCI . Multiple wireless devices can be scheduled in one subframe of a radio frame. Therefore multiple DCI messages can be sent using multiple PDCCHs. The DCI information in a PDCCH can be transmitted using one or more control channel elements CCE . A CCE can be comprised of a group of resource element groups REGs . A legacy CCE can include up to nine REGs. Each legacy REG can be comprised of four resource elements REs . Each resource element can include two bits of information when quadrature modulation is used. Therefore a legacy CCE can include up to 72 bits of information. When more than 72 bits of information are needed to convey the DCI message multiple CCEs can be employed. The use of multiple CCEs can be referred to as an aggregation level. In one example the aggregation levels can be defined as 1 2 4 or 8 consecutive CCEs allocated to one PDCCH.

The legacy PDCCH can create limitations to advances made in other areas of wireless communication. For example mapping of CCEs to subframes in OFDM symbols can typically be spread over the control region to provide frequency diversity. However no beam forming diversity may be possible with the current mapping procedures.

Moreover the capacity of the legacy PDCCH may not be sufficient for advanced control signaling. For instance networks may be configured as heterogeneous networks HetNets that can include a number of different kinds of nodes in a single macro cell serving area. More wireless devices can be served simultaneously by macro and pico cells in the HetNet. The PDCCH can be designed to demodulate based on cell specific reference signals CRS which can make fully exploring cell splitting gain difficult. The legacy PDCCH may not be adequate to convey the information needed to allow a wireless device to take advantage of the multiple transmission nodes in the HetNet to increase bandwidth and decrease battery usage at the wireless device.

In addition an increased capacity in the PDCCH can be useful in the use of multi user multiple input multiple output MU MIMO machine to machine communication M2M PDSCH transmission in a multicast broadcast single frequency network and cross carrier scheduling. The use of UE specific reference signals UERS in PDCCH demodulation at the wireless device can allow the use of multiple nodes in the HetNet. Rather than relying on a single common reference symbol e.g. CRS for an entire cell each reference symbol can be UE specific e.g. UERS .

To overcome the limitations of the legacy PDCCH an enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH can use the REs in an entire PRB or PRB pair where a PRB pair is two contiguous PRBs using the same subcarrier s subframe instead of just the first one to three columns of OFDM symbols in a first slot PRB in a subframe as in the legacy PDCCH. Accordingly the ePDCCH can be configured with increased capacity to allow advances in the design of cellular networks and to minimize currently known challenges and limitations.

Unlike the legacy PDCCH the ePDCCH can be mapped to the same REs or region in a PRB as the PDSCH but in different PRBs. In an example the PDSCH and the ePDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair . Thus if one PRB or one PRB pair contains an ePDCCH the unused REs in the PRB or PRB pair may be blanked since the REs may not be used for the PDSCH.

As the evolution of LTE advanced LTE A keeps increasing support for multi user MIMO MU MIMO more UEs can be scheduled per sub frame for the MU MIMO operation which can increase the physical down link control channel PDCCH resource demand for downlink scheduling. The legacy PDCCH design e.g. LTE Rel 8 9 10 with the maximum PDCCH size of 3 OFDM symbols may not meet an increased demand which can consequently limit the gain from MU MIMO. The PDCCH extension design called enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH EPDCCH or E PDCCH can be located in the PDSCH region for an advanced PDCCH e.g. LTE Release 11 and subsequent releases . The ePDCCH can use a PRB based instead of CCE based PDCCH design multiplexing scheme to increase the PDCCH capacity and improve enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC support in HetNet scenarios. The limitation of the legacy PDCCH design to effectively perform inter cell interference coordination ICIC on the legacy PDCCH can be due to PDCCH interleaving where the control channel elements CCEs used for the transmission of DCI formats in PDCCH are distributed over the entire bandwidth BW . Conversely the enhanced PDCCH ePDCCH in PDSCH region can be designed using a PRB based scheme to achieve the benefit to support frequency domain ICIC.

A network can support frequency domain inter cell interference coordination ICIC or time domain enhanced ICIC eICIC . In an example ICIC can be used to decrease interference between neighboring cells or nodes e.g. coordination nodes or cooperation nodes by lowering the power of a part of the subchannels in the frequency domain which then can be received close to the node. The subchannels do not interfere with the same subchannels used in neighboring cells and thus data can be sent to mobile devices with less interference on the subchannels close to the cell.

Enhanced ICIC eICIC can be used in the time domain for heterogeneous networks HetNets where a high power macro cell can be complemented with low power nodes such as pico cells hotspots in shopping centers or at airports or femto cells hotspots in small areas such as homes or businesses . The low power nodes can exist inside a macro cell coverage area. The macro cell can transmit long range high power signals and the low power nodes can transmit low power signals over short distances. In an example to mitigate interference between the macro cell and the several low power nodes located within the macro cell coverage area eICIC can coordinate the blanking of subframes in the time domain in the macro cell.

In some carrier types supporting ePDCCH e.g. carrier types in LTE Release 11 the location and size of the ePDCCH regions can be indicated to the user equipment mobile station UE MS through radio resource control RRC signaling which can use the PDCCH and UE s reading of PDCCH to obtain such RRC configuration from a primary cell PCell . However new carrier types NCT which may be used by next generation UEs MSs e.g. UEs MSs using LTE Release 12 and subsequent releases may use stand alone carriers without a legacy PDDCH. The methods devices and systems described herein can be used to inform the UE of location of the ePDCCH without relying on the legacy PDDCH or RRC signaling from the PCell.

Overhead resource elements RE such as cell specific reference signals CRS legacy control channel channel state information reference signal CSI RS and enhanced physical hybrid automatic repeat request ARQ indicator channel ePHICH if available can be encoded and or decoded using at least two alternatives Fully puncturing all the overhead REs or fully rate matching around the overhead REs.

In coding theory puncturing is the process of removing some of the parity bits after encoding with an error correction code. Puncturing can have the same effect as encoding with an error correction code with a higher rate e.g. modulation and coding scheme MCS or less redundancy. With puncturing a same decoder can be used regardless of how many bits have been punctured thus puncturing can considerably increase the flexibility of a system without significantly increasing the system s complexity.

In some cases a pre defined pattern of puncturing can be used in an encoder. Then the inverse operation known as depuncturing can be implemented by the decoder. Puncturing can be used in LTE during a rate matching process. In an example puncturing can be used with the Viterbi algorithm in coding systems.

The rate matching RM process can adapt the code rate of the LTE data transmissions such that the number of information and parity bits to be transmitted matches the resource allocation. For example based on a 1 3 mother code rate of the turbo coder the LTE rate matching can use a circular buffer to either repeat bits to decrease the code rate or puncture bits to increase the code rate.

In the ePDCCH design the overhead REs in the PRB pair that the ePDCCH is transmitted can use puncturing or rate matching. Both puncturing and rate matching have benefits and disadvantages e.g. pros and cons shortening of the Latin pro et contra which means for and against as illustrated in Table 1. Table 1 illustrates a comparison for puncturing and rate matching in the presence of overhead REs based on link level performance DCI decoding ambiguity and UE complexity of implementation.

Puncturing or rate matching can be applied based on the type of overhead REs which can be used in the presence of ePDCCH. Based on the comparisons in Table 1 each alternative e.g. puncturing or rate matching can have its own advantages and disadvantages. Instead of applying only puncturing and only rate matching to all types of overhead the node or UE can adaptively apply puncturing and rate matching to different types of overhead for optimizing the performance for both a backward compatible carrier e.g. carriers in LTE Rel. 8 9 10 11 and stand along carriers e.g. carriers in LTE Rel. 12 and subsequent versions .

In the backward compatible carrier UE can determine a cell specific reference signal CRS configuration a primary synchronization signals PSS a secondary synchronization signals SSS a physical broadcast channel PBCH or a positioning reference signal PRS before the UE decodes the ePDCCH. Since the CRS PSS SSS PBCH and PRS signals can consume a large number of REs rate matching can be suitable for these REs because high puncturing ratio can make ePDCCH performance unacceptable. In addition since the receiving power of the CRS can be much higher than the ePDCCH data signal due to deployment of distributed remote radio head RRH systems the large CRS interference on the punctured REs can worsen the performance degradation.

For control signals with a smaller size and a more dynamic nature such as channel state information reference signal CSI RS puncturing can be applied. For example CSI RS REs can be indicated using RRC signaling and CSI RS overhead can be relatively small. For overhead REs with a smaller size applying puncturing can be better to avoid reconfiguration caused decoding ambiguity. For another example ePHICH if introduced can have a dynamic load driven by uplink traffic where puncturing can be more advantageous.

In a stand alone carrier type e.g. NCT another overhead reference signal RS can be used. A similar approach to using puncturing or rate matching can be used as described above for a backward compatible carrier. In another example rate matching can be applied a for legacy control region backward compatible component carrier CC CRS PSS SSS PBCH PRS demodulation reference signal DMRS e.g. 24 REs and puncturing can be applied for CSI RS and ePHICH if presented in ePDCCH PRB pair .

Applying puncturing or rate matching based on the overhead REs can capture the gains from either puncturing or rate matching and remove or mitigate the disadvantages of puncturing or rate matching respectively. Each type of overhead RE can use an encoding and or decoding mechanism for the overhead RE to provide a better benefit for the system.

Another example provides a method for adaptively decoding overhead resource elements REs in a physical resource block PRB used for an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH transmission as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of determining at a user equipment UE a type of overhead RE received from a node wherein the type of overhead RE is one of a rate matching overhead RE and a puncturing overhead RE as in block . The operation of applying rate matching to the rate matching overhead RE follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be decoding the puncturing overhead RE as an ePDCCH RE as in block .

The rate matching overhead RE can include a legacy control region a backward compatible component carrier a cell specific reference signal CRS a primary synchronization signals PSS a secondary synchronization signals SSS a physical broadcast channel PBCH a positioning reference signal PRS or a demodulation reference signal DMRS . The puncturing overhead RE can include a channel state information reference signal CSI RS an enhanced physical hybrid automatic repeat request ARQ indicator channel ePHICH . In an example the rate matching overhead can be indicated using radio resource control RRC signaling. Puncturing can be transparent to the UE so the UE can treat the overhead RE as an ePDCCH RE. Thus depuncturing maybe not by applied by the UE. In another example the overhead RE and ePDCCH can use a backward compatible carrier or a stand alone carrier. The stand alone carrier can be a carrier without a legacy physical downlink control channel PDCCH .

Another technical problem can be informing the UE of location of the ePDCCH without relying on the legacy PDDCH or RRC signaling for the stand alone carrier type e.g. NCT . The stand alone carrier type can be used in advanced LTE e.g. 3GPP Rel. 12 . Some of the current output of ePDCCH can smoothly migrate to the stand alone NCT except a common search space CSS . Since UE may detect information in an initial access stage from the CSS in order to establish RRC connection UE may need to be informed of the CSS in stand alone carrier type.

For example a mechanism can be used to indicate to the UE where to search for the ePDCCH configuration information. In an example the mechanism can be used to indicate the location and size of the common search space CSS of the ePDCCH region for stand alone carriers. Once the CSS is determined and found by the UE the UE can subsequently determine the UE specific search space USS configuration by reading the RRC signaling indicated through CSS from the eNB.

A physical hybrid automatic repeat request ARQ indicator channel PHICH can be used to indicate the PRBs of CSS for the stand alone carrier type e.g. NCT . The 3 bits for PHICH configuration information in a master information block MIB can be reused. The MIB information can be used to indicate the ePDCCH region and the MIB information can also be used to indicate the CSS or other control region.

3 bits of the PHICH configuration information can be included in MIB. 1 bit can be used to indicate whether PHICH extension is used and the other 2 bits can be used for PHICH resources configuration e.g. 0.25 0.5 1 or 2 times the N where Ncan be a parameter related to system bandwidth. The PHICH configuration information can be decoded in an earlier stage before DCI decoding so the PHICH configuration information can be used by the UE to determine the CSS position in stand alone carrier type because the PHICH extension configuration may not be needed in stand alone carrier type.

Since the PHICH may not be used for stand alone carrier type the 3 bits which can represent eight different hypotheses can be used to configure the PRB where CSS or other control channels such as PHICH are transmitted in the stand alone carrier type.

At least two different options can be used when the ePHICH shares the same resources with ePDCCH and the ePHICH resource punctures the ePDCCH resource. In a first option two PRB region candidates e.g. candidates and represented by Bit can be predefined for the CSS and jointly encoded with four ePHICH resource configurations e.g. 0.25 0.5 1 or 2 times the N as shown in . The 2 PRB region candidates can be used by neighboring cells to select different PRBs for CSS in order to achieve frequency ICIC. In another alternative the two PRB region candidates can be cell common and determined solely by system bandwidth then enhanced CCE eCCE level ICIC can be used and the PRB region candidate bit e.g. Bit can be used to indicate an eCCE candidate.

In a second option since ePHICH resource can puncture the ePDCCH resource the ePHICH resource configuration can be decreased from 2 bits to 1 bit e.g. Bitfor 1 or 2 times Ninstead of Bitand Bitfor 0.25 0.5 1 2 times N because the idle resource allocated to ePHICH can be reused by ePDCCH as shown in . As a result resource wastage can be reduced so resources actually needed for ePHICH are allocated to ePHICH. With one bit e.g. Bit used for the ePHICH resource configuration two bits Bitand Bit can be used to select more PRB region candidates e.g. candidates for CSS to achieve better ICIC results.

When dedicated resources are assigned for an ePHICH transmission a third option can be used. In the third option the PRB used for CSS can be similarly indicated as the first option and PRB used for ePHICH transmission can be implicitly indicated by the 3 bits as shown in . For example the ePHICH PRB can start from a PRB next to a last PRB that belongs to the CSS of the ePDCCH. Then the 1 bit e.g. Bit used to indicate PRB candidate of CSS can also indicate the PRB of ePHICH. The PRB set for ePHICH can be a predefined or configured offset from the PRB set for each CSS candidate. The other two bits Bitand Bit can be used for ePHICH resource indication.

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for determining a common search space CSS from a physical resource block PRB indication for a stand alone carrier type as shown in the flow chart in . The processing module or decoder can be configured to determine a PRB set in the CSS from an enhanced physical hybrid automatic repeat request ARQ indicator channel ePHICH configuration information in a master information block MIB as in block . The processing module can be configured to decode an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH or the ePHICH from PRB region candidates in the PRB set as in block . The transceiver module can be configured to receive the MIB including the ePHICH configuration information from a node. The stand alone carrier type can be a new carrier type NCT without a legacy physical downlink control channel PDCCH .

In an example the ePHICH configuration information can include 3 bits. One bit can be used to indicate two PRB region candidates and 2 bits can be used to indicate up to four ePHICH resource configurations as shown in . An ePHICH resource configuration can be a multiple of an Nand the Ncan be a parameter related to a system bandwidth. In another example an ePHICH transmission can be implicitly indicated by the 3 ePHICH configuration information bits and an ePHICH PRB can begin from a specified PRB prior to a last PRB for the CSS of the ePDCCH indicated by the ePHICH configuration information bits as shown in .

In another example the ePHICH configuration information can include 3 bits. Two bits can be used to indicate four PRB region candidates and 1 bit can be used to indicate up to two ePHICH resource configurations. An ePHICH resource configuration can be a multiple of an Nand the Ncan be a parameter related to a system bandwidth as shown in .

In another configuration at least two methods or alternatives can be used to indicate the common search space CSS of the ePDCCH E PDCCH or EPDCCH channel location for the stand alone carrier type e.g. NCT . In an example the CSS design can support the narrow bandwidth operation for low cost machine type communication MTC devices UEs which can be taken into account to enable MTC devices UEs to operate on the stand alone carrier type.

In a first alternative as illustrated in the CSS of the ePDCCH can be mapped to a central M number e.g. M 6 physical resources blocks PRBs around the direct current DC subcarrier or zero frequency subcarrier . The DC subcarrier can refer to the subcarrier whose frequency is equal to the radio frequency center frequency of the node. illustrates resource mapping for common search space CSS of ePDCCH.

The legacy PDCCH region for a legacy UE e.g. using a carrier type in LTE Rel 8 9 10 11 can span a full bandwidth e.g. 5 MHz or 10 MHz . The PDCCH can provide control information to a data allocation in a PDSCH. The transmission of main synchronization signals e.g. primary synchronization signals PSS and secondary synchronization signals SSS can occupy a central part e.g. 6 PRBs of an available spectrum of a bandwidth subframe along with a physical broadcast channel PBCH . In an example the main synchronization signals can be limited to a narrow bandwidth allocation e.g. 6 PRBs around a central direct current DC subcarrier. Because the bandwidth of the synchronization signals can be limited to an approximately 1.4 MHz bandwidth e.g. 6 PRBs in the frequency domain in an example the wireless device e.g. UE can have at least a 1.4 MHz bandwidth to perform system acquisition and to process the synchronization signals. Thus in an example a minimal supported bandwidth device can have a bandwidth of at least 1.4 MHz. Such minimal supported bandwidth device can also decode the legacy PBCH since a PBCH position in frame can be pre determined and located in the narrow bandwidth allocation in the center of the available spectrum similar to synchronization signals. Transmission of important system information may be also carried out in the central part of the spectrum or acquired through a specific narrow bandwidth control message that can be transmitted in central part of the spectrum.

For legacy PDCCHs blind decoding can be used detect a UE s DCI. The UE may only be informed of the number of OFDM symbol within the control region of a subframe and may not be provided with an exact location of the UE s corresponding PDCCH. The PDCCH or ePDCCH can provide control information to multiple UEs in a cell for each subframe k. The UE can perform blind decoding since the UE may be aware of the detailed control channel structure including the number of control channels CCHs and the number of legacy control channel elements CCEs to which each control channel is mapped. Multiple PDCCHs can be transmitted in a single subframe k which may or may not be relevant to a particular UE. Because the UE does not know the precise location of the DCI information in a PDCCH the UE can search and decode the CCEs in the PDCCH until the DCI is found for the UE s CCs. The PDCCH candidates for DCI detection can be referred to as a search space. The UE can find the PDCCH specific to the UE or the UE s CCs by monitoring a set of PDCCH candidates a set of consecutive CCEs on which the PDCCH could be mapped in a PDCCH search space in each subframe.

In the 3GPP LTE specification such as in Release 8 9 10 or 11 the UE can use a radio network temporary identifier RNTI that can be assigned to the UE by the eNB to try and decode candidates. The RNTI can be used to demask a PDCCH candidate s cyclic redundancy check CRC that was originally masked by the eNB using the UE s RNTI. If the PDCCH is for a specific UE the CRC can be masked with a UE unique identifier for example a cell RNTI C RNTI used in a downlink. If no CRC error is detected the UE can determine that a PDCCH candidate carries the DCI for the UE. If a CRC error is detected then the UE can determine that PDCCH candidate does not carry the DCI for the UE and the UE can increment to the next PDCCH candidate. The UE may increment to the next PDCCH candidate in the search space based on the CCE aggregation level.

The DCI can be mapped to the legacy PDCCH using legacy resource element groups REGs except both the PCFICH and PHICH as illustrated in . REGs can be used for defining the mapping of control channels to resource elements. A RB may include reference signal REs reference signal OFDM symbols used for transmitting reference signals for a specific antenna port and unused REs unused OFDM symbols not used for transmission on the specific port which allow other antenna ports to transmit their reference signals. The number of reference signal REs and unused REs used in the RB can depend on the number of antenna ports. REGs can be used to map control channels to the remaining resource elements. REGs include a symbol quadruplet or four REs that do not include reference signal REs.

For example a two antenna port configured RB with a CFI 3 can include seven REGs in the control region or seven REGs used for the PDCCH if no REGs are used for PCFICH and PHICH as illustrated in . The REGs in the control region of the RBs for a CC can comprise the PDCCH. Each CCE used in the PDCCH can include 9 REGs. The PDCCH can be formed with one or more successive CCEs. A plurality of PDCCHs can be transmitted in a single subframe.

The stand alone carrier type can use an ePDCCH without the legacy PDCCH. The transmission of the CSS of ePDCCH can reuse the ePDCCH resources mapping methods including channel coding interleaving and enhanced resource element group eREG mapping. The ePDCCH may also use blind decoding. The ePDCCH can be mapped to eREGs and or enhanced CCEs eCCEs . For example a start symbol of the CSS can start from a first OFDM symbol in a first slot e.g. slot of the allocated PRBs as shown in since the legacy PDCCH region may not be transmitted for the stand alone carrier type. An end symbol of CSS can end at the last OFDM symbol in one subframe e.g. the OFDM symbol index shown in . The PRB numbers in the frequency domain for the CSS M value can be a value of the CSS PRB size which can be a fixed value specified in the specification or indicated and or signaled through a pre processing physical layer channel e.g. physical broadcast channel PBCH . In an example a maximum number of PRBs used for CSS of ePDCCH can be less than a bandwidth BW size supported by the low cost MTC UEs to enable MTC devices UEs to decode the CSS. Additionally the CSS can be transmitted on the same set of antenna ports as the PBCH with either transmit diversity or random beamforming if more than one antenna port is used.

At least three methods or options can rely on the PBCH channel to provide the CSS BandWidth BW indication. In Option for the CSS of the ePDCCH mapped to the central PRBs the PRB numbers information can be carried by an IE in the master information block MIB via RRC signaling. In Option for the CSS of the ePDCCH mapped to the central PRBs multiple bandwidth candidates for each CSS can be predefined in the specification which can be independent of a system BW. Since the UE can determine the exact BW value corresponding to each BW i in the MIB the corresponding CSS bandwidth information can be obtained after MIB decoding. The index i can be integer for each available bandwidth.

In Option for the CSS of the ePDCCH mapped to the central PRBs a one to one mapping can be defined between system Band Width BW and CSS Band Width CBW as illustrated in Table 2. Therefore once the system BW is obtained by UE through the MIB information bits UE can determine the corresponding CSS BW via the one to one mapping.

In Option for the CSS of the ePDCCH mapped to the central PRBs after the PBCH CRC attachment the CRC bits can be scrambled by the corresponding CSS BW configuration the sequence. One example is shown in Table 3 with the assumption that two CSS BW candidates are supported by the system. Option may limit the number of the CSS BW such as two or three CSS BW.

In a second alternative as illustrated in a region index for a CSS transmission can be fixed predefined and or specified in a specification e.g. LTE specification . For example a first candidate region e.g. Candidate Region at the bandwidth edge can be used for the CSS transmission. Additionally the CSS regions can be configurable among neighboring cells to enable the enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC on the CSS. A central predefined or fixed PRBs e.g. central 6 PRBs in the frequency domain can be included in one of the CSS regions e.g. Candidate Region where the central predefined or fixed PRBs include the PBCH PSS and or SSS. The CSS candidate region can have a size less than or equal to a machine type communication MTC device bandwidth e.g. X PRBs or Candidate Region . If multiple candidate regions are used at least two methods or options can be used to indicate the CSS BW region configuration for each cell.

In Option using multiple candidate regions the CSS configuration relevant information e.g. CSS region index and PRB numbers of each CSS region can be carried by an IE e.g. CSSRegion Bandwidth or CSSRegion Index in the MIB via RRC signaling.

For Option using multiple candidate regions a one to one mapping relationship can be similarly predefined between the system BandWidth BW and the CSS BandWidth CBW as shown in Table 2. In cases with a one to one mapping relationship between the BW and the CBW the CSSRegion Index IE may be transmitted in the MIB without the CSSRegion Bandwidth IE or CSS Bandwidth IE .

In Option using multiple candidate regions a different physical channel which can be referred to as a Physical Common search space Indicator Channel PCICH can be specially designed to indicate the CSS region index and the CSS bandwidth information. Although the PCICH is used any physical channel providing the CSS region index and or the CSS bandwidth information is contemplated. The PCICH can be transmitted on a same set of antenna ports as the PBCH with either transmit diversity or random beamforming if more than one antenna port is used. The PCICH can be transmitted at a central fixed number of PRBs e.g. the central 6 PRBs in the frequency domain and can be time division multiplexed TDMed with the PBCH PSS and or SSS as shown in . illustrates a PCICH channel resource mapping associated with cell identifier Cell ID . In order to avoid interference with PCICH information from neighboring cell a cell specific symbol offset can be applied to the PCICH resources mapping as shown in . Each PCICH e.g. PCICH of Cell  PCICH of Cell  or PCICH of Cell  can be implicitly determined and associated with the Cell ID to enable PCICH eICIC. In another configuration not shown the PCICH can be mapped to a cell edge PRBs within one CSS candidate region.

The various methods mechanism or alternatives can be used to indicate e.g. location or size the CSS of the ePDCCH for the stand alone carrier type e.g. NCT . In an example the CSS design can support the narrow bandwidth operation for low cost machine type communication MTC devices UEs which can be taken into account to enable MTC devices UEs to operate on the stand alone carrier type.

Another example provides a method for determining a location and a size of a common search space CSS of an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH for a stand alone carrier as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. A user equipment UE for determining a location and a size of a common search space CSS of an enhanced physical downlink control channel ePDCCH for a stand alone carrier can have computer circuitry to perform the method . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive from an evolved Node B eNB the ePDCCH mapped to a CSS resource region with a CSS bandwidth CBW less than a system bandwidth BW as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to decode downlink control information DCI candidates in the CSS resource region for the ePDCCH as in block .

The CSS resource region can be mapped to a central number of M of physical resource blocks PRBs including the central direct current DC subcarrier in a frequency domain. A start symbol of the CSS resource region can be the first orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbol of a first slot in a subframe an end symbol of the CSS resource region can be the last OFDM symbol in the subframe a CSS PRB size can be a number of PRBs in the frequency domain for the CSS resource region and the CSS PRB size can be a fixed value or indicated through a physical layer channel.

In another example the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive from the evolved Node B eNB a CSS indicator of the CSS resource region of the ePDCCH. The CSS indicator can include a CSS bandwidth indication carried in an information element IE in a master information block MIB on a physical broadcast channel PBCH .

In another configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive from the evolved Node B eNB a CSS indicator of the CSS resource region of the ePDCCH. The CSS indicator can include a downlink system bandwidth indication carried in an information element IE in a master information block MIB on a physical broadcast channel PBCH and a downlink system bandwidth has a predefined one to one mapping to a CSS bandwidth.

In another example the computer circuitry configured to decode the DCI candidates in the CSS resource region for the ePDCCH can be further configured to descramble CSS bandwidth candidates with a cyclic redundancy check CRC mask specified for a CSS bandwidth. Each CSS bandwidth can use a unique CRC mask.

In another configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive from the evolved Node B eNB a CSS indicator of the CSS resource region of the ePDCCH. The system bandwidth BW can include a plurality of CSS candidate regions in the CSS resource region in the frequency domain and each CSS candidate region can be indicated by a CSS region index. The CSS region index can be carried in an information element IE in a master information block MIB using radio resource control RRC signaling. In an example a downlink system bandwidth can have a predefined one to one mapping to a CSS bandwidth.

In another example the CSS indicator can include a physical common search space indicator channel PCICH including the CSS region index and the CSS bandwidth information received on a same set of antenna ports as a physical broadcast channel PBCH and each PCICH for a cell can use a cell specific symbol offset.

In another configuration the CBW can be greater than or equal to six PRBs in the frequency domain. When the system bandwidth equals 6 PRBs e.g. 1.4 MHz a CBW can be equal to the system bandwidth in the frequency domain. In another example the stand alone carrier type can be a new carrier type NCT without a legacy physical downlink control channel PDCCH .

In another configuration the UE includes at least one of an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory and a non volatile memory port as shown in .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

