---

title: Centralized transaction record storage
abstract: Methods and systems according to one or more embodiments are provided for storing online transaction records associated with user-merchant transactions. In an embodiment, a system comprises one or more processors. The system also comprises one or more memories adapted to store a plurality of machine-readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors are adapted to cause the system to: receive transaction information captured and passed from a client device in response to the client device determining that information or content provided by a merchant server comprises transaction information, wherein the transaction information is associated with a user-merchant transaction; and store the received transaction information in a searchable machine-readable transaction record associated with a user account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501800&OS=09501800&RS=09501800
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09501800
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130410
---
This continuation patent application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 450 200 filed Apr. 18 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 162 472 filed on Jun. 16 2011 which is a divisional application of U.S. Pat. No. 8 024 267 Ser. No. 11 855 408 filed on Sep. 14 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to online transactions and more particularly to the storage of records associated with online transactions.

Customers routinely search for and purchase products and services through electronic communications with online merchants over electronic networks such as the Internet. In this regard individual consumers may frequently engage in transactions with a variety of merchants through for example various merchant websites.

During the course of these transactions merchants may provide customers with receipts or other records. It is generally the consumer s responsibility to locally store these merchant receipts for future reference. Unfortunately different merchants may provide receipts in a variety of forms with little or no consistency in the way information is presented.

As a result customers may be forced to implement appropriate receipt storage using a trial and error approach. Moreover in order to maintain useful records customers must continuously implement such an approach as additional transactions are performed.

Nevertheless the demands on consumers associated with such approaches can become onerous as the number of user merchant transactions and the number of visited merchant websites increase. Consequently consumers may be unable to consistently maintain satisfactory records especially for purposes of finding transaction details which may be relevant for future transactions or activities.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure a system comprises one or more processors. The system also comprises one or more memories adapted to store a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors are adapted to cause the system to receive transaction information captured and passed from a client device in response to the client device determining that information or content provided by a merchant server comprises transaction information wherein the transaction information is associated with a user merchant transaction and store the received transaction information in a searchable machine readable transaction record associated with a user account.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a method comprises receiving at a server transaction information captured and passed from a client device in response to the client device determining that information or content provided by a merchant server comprises transaction information wherein the transaction information is associated with a user merchant transaction. The method also comprises storing the received transaction information in a searchable machine readable transaction record associated with a user account.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium on which are stored computer readable instructions and when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive transaction information captured and passed from a client device in response to the client device determining that information or content provided by a merchant server comprises transaction information wherein the transaction information is associated with a user merchant transaction and store the received transaction information in a searchable machine readable transaction record associated with a user account.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein user online transaction records comprising transaction information associated with various user merchant transactions can be conveniently stored by a payment service provider and subsequently reviewed by a user. For example in one embodiment transaction information such as receipts for a plurality of different merchants may be aggregated by a payment service provider thereby allowing a user to search the information. In another embodiment the transaction information may include user selectable links to permit users to purchase products or services i.e. items referenced by the transaction records.

In yet another embodiment the transaction information may include for example various terms and conditions e.g. warranty information return policies price guarantees and or other information associated with items purchased by users. In another embodiment users may request additional services e.g. warranty services through a user interface facilitated by the payment service provider.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present invention only and not for purposes of limiting the same illustrates a block diagram of a networked system configured to provide transaction record storage in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown system includes a client device a merchant server a warranty management server and a payment service provider server in communication over a network .

Client device warranty management server merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal to the servers external to the servers and or accessible by the servers over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user e.g. a customer in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments client may be implemented as a wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or other types of computing devices.

As shown client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view webpages or other content available over the Internet.

Client device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application . In this regard toolbar application may be configured to receive input commands from user instructing client device to capture transaction information displayed by browser application flag webpages containing transaction information or perform other tasks.

Client device may also include a parser application and a transaction detection application that may be used to process webpages displayed by browser application . Parser application may be implemented to parse the webpages to identify various data included in the webpages. Transaction detection application may process the data identified by parser application for example by applying predetermined heuristics to ascertain various characteristics of the webpages that may be associated with transaction information. For example in one embodiment such heuristics may include the presence of dollar amounts shipping information or other information that may be associated with transactions performed by user over network . Accordingly by parsing webpages with parser application and further processing the parsed data with transaction detection application client device may identify whether a given webpage includes transaction information associated for example with one or more transactions performed by user over network .

Client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to client device . For example in various embodiments such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

As also shown in client device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of client device or other appropriate identifiers. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Client device may optionally include a local transaction webpage database that identifies various webpages previously determined to be associated with transaction information. For example in one embodiment local transaction webpage database may include a list of addresses for example uniform resource identifiers URLs or domains that may be associated with webpages of merchant server or payment service provider server . In this regard transaction detection application may be implemented to compare an address associated with a given webpage received by browser application to entries in local transaction webpage database to identify webpages that include transaction information.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an online merchant offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . In this regard merchant server includes a products services database identifying available products and or services which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of client . For example in one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser application over network in order to search and view various items identified in products services database .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of items identified by marketplace application . In this regard checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server over network .

Warranty management server includes a warranty database which may be configured to store warranty information associated with various items identified by products services database of merchant server . For example in one embodiment warranty database may identify particular time periods associated with various warranties of particular items. Warranty management server may be implemented to serve relevant warranty information in response to warranty information requests by payment server provider server as further described herein. In various embodiments warranty management server may be operated for example by a merchant a payment service provider a warranty provider or other appropriate entities.

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with client device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of items by user from merchant server . In one embodiment payment service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc.

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example in one embodiment account information may include private financial information of user such as account numbers passwords credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application without requiring user to provide account information to merchant server .

Payment service provider server further maintains a plurality of transaction records which are associated with individual user accounts . As further described herein transaction records may be implemented to store transaction information associated with particular online transactions between user and merchant server i.e. user merchant transactions . Accordingly payment service provider server can provide centralized storage of transaction information.

Payment service provider server also provides a transaction record processing application which may be configured to serve particular transaction records to client device in response to user requests. Transaction record processing application may further be configured to serve warranty information received from warranty management server in response to user requests.

Payment service provider server may optionally include a master transaction webpage database that identifies various webpages as being associated with transaction information as similarly described above with regard to local transaction webpage database . In this regard transaction detection application of client device may be implemented to send requests to payment service provider to compare an address associated with a given webpage to entries in master transaction webpage database to identify webpages that include transaction information.

As a result of such previous registration client device stores a user identifier that may be used to identify the particular user as having a user account maintained by payment service provider server . As previously described user identifier may be implemented for example as one or more cookies operating system registry entries hardware identifiers or other types of identifiers.

In step user accesses an online marketplace provided by merchant server . For example in one embodiment user may use browser application to access a webpage provided by marketplace application of merchant server . In this regard marketplace application may be configured to display various items identified in products services database . Also in step user may optionally select such items for purchase through interaction between browser application and checkout application .

Then in step user engages in a transaction with merchant server to purchase various items selected during previous step . In this regard user may authorize an operator of payment service provider server to provide relevant financial information e.g. account information from one of user accounts associated with user for executing such transactions on behalf of user . In one embodiment client device may interact with merchant server during step . In another embodiment payment service provider server may interact with merchant server on behalf of client device and user during step .

In step merchant server provides information associated with the transaction performed in previous step . For example in one embodiment merchant server may provide a webpage including transaction details to client device which may be viewed by user through browser application . In another embodiment merchant server may provide an email message to client device identifying such transaction details. In one embodiment the transaction information provided by merchant server in step may include program code such as JavaScript code embedded in a webpage that is executable by client device .

Returning to in step merchant server or client device captures the transaction information provided in step . For example in one embodiment merchant server may capture the transaction information locally in HTML XML or another text based format. In another embodiment merchant server may capture a graphic image of the transaction record. Similarly in other embodiments toolbar application or other applications of client device may capture the transaction information locally in HTML XML or another text based format or may capture a graphic image of the transaction information. In one embodiment the capturing may be performed by client device in response to one or more commands initiated by user . Such commands may include for example user selecting an appropriate button displayed in user interface by toolbar application . In another embodiment such capturing may be performed by client device without requiring interaction by user . In one embodiment client device may perform the process of during step as further described herein.

In various embodiments the transaction information captured in step may include for example line item details for particular items purchased in the transaction of step links to one or more webpages maintained by merchant server that are associated with particular purchased items personal or financial information of user user identifier identification information of a particular merchant merchant policy terms e.g. individual merchant return policies shipping information terms and conditions previously described herein or other information.

Following step merchant server or client device passes the captured transaction information to payment service provider server step . For example if transaction information is captured and passed by merchant server such information may be passed from merchant server to payment service provider server over network in response to the capturing performed in step by merchant server .

In another example if transaction information is captured and passed by client device such information may be passed from client device to payment service provider server over network in response to the capturing performed in step by client device . As discussed the transaction information provided by merchant server in previous step may include program code that is executable by client device . Such code may be executed by client device in step to cause client device to pass transaction information to payment service provider server .

In another example if transaction information is captured and passed by client device such information may be passed from client device to payment service provider server over network using a printer driver e.g. maintained by client device as one of other applications . In this regard such a printer driver may be configured to send transaction information e.g. transaction information captured in step of to payment service provider server over network in response to user selecting button of user interface shown in .

In step payment service provider server stores the captured transaction information as one of transaction records associated with the particular user account of user .

It will be appreciated that by performing the process of for a plurality of transactions by user with merchant server and or other merchants a plurality of transaction records may be stored by payment service provider server and associated with an appropriate user account associated with user . Such transaction records may be subsequently accessed by user to facilitate additional operations as further described herein.

In step transaction detection application compares an address e.g. a URI or other appropriate identifier of a webpage e.g. a webpage provided to client device during earlier step to local transaction webpage database or master transaction webpage database . If a matching address is found step then transaction detection application will determine that the webpage includes transaction information step . Following step client device captures the transaction information by for example capturing a record of the webpage in any appropriate manner as previously discussed.

If a match is not found in step then the process of continues to step . In step parser application parses the webpage to identify data included in the webpage. In step transaction detection application applies heuristics to the data identified in previous step in order to ascertain various characteristics of the webpages that may be associated with transaction information as previously discussed. If the processing performed in step detects that the webpage likely includes transaction information step then the process of continues to step as previously discussed. If no transaction information is detected in step then steps and or may be optionally repeated as many times as desired to further attempt to detect transaction information. In one embodiment transaction detection application may apply different heuristics during repeated iterations of step .

In step transaction detection application determines that the currently processed webpage likely does not include transaction information. In step user may optionally flag the webpage for example by selecting an appropriate button displayed in user interface by toolbar application as shown in to indicate that user believes the webpage does indeed include transaction information. In response to step transaction detection application may optionally update local transaction webpage database to include an address associated with the current webpage step . Alternatively in step transaction detection application may inform payment service provider server of the user s flagging of the current webpage. In this case payment service provider server may optionally update master transaction webpage database to include an address associated with the current webpage. Following step the process of may optionally continue to step previously discussed above.

In step user logs in to payment service provider server in order to authenticate user for accessing the particular transaction records associated with one of user accounts . For example in one embodiment user may interact with payment service provider server through an appropriate browser interface provided by browser application .

In response to a successful log in payment service provider server may permit user to enter one or more search terms for searching the contents of transaction records step . In response to a search request entered by user payment service provider server retrieves and serves any of transaction records matching the search terms to client device for display to user by browser application step .

For example illustrates a sample user interface that may be displayed to user on client device by browser application for viewing transaction record search results provided in step . In this regard user interface includes a search window into which user may enter desired search terms. A user operable button is also provided which may cause transaction record processing application to search transaction records for the terms entered in search window .

In the embodiment illustrated in transaction record processing application has returned two particular transaction records and associated with the search term ABC entered in search window . In this regard it will be appreciated that transaction records and each include various transaction information and respectively associated with different transactions executed by user in relation to a particular merchant Merchant ABC . Accordingly it will be appreciated that in this embodiment merchant server may be maintained by Merchant ABC. However it will also be appreciated that a plurality of merchant servers associated with different merchants may also be provided as part of system .

Advantageously user interface also includes a plurality of user selectable reorder buttons to permit user to selectively re purchase particular items identified in transaction records and . In this regard it will be appreciated that the transaction information previously provided to payment service provider server e.g. in step of may include for example line item details for particular items purchased in the transaction links to one or more webpages maintained by merchant server that are associated with particular purchased items personal or financial information of user user identifier identification information of a particular merchant or other information.

Accordingly each of reorder buttons may be associated with particular features provided by payment service provider server . In one embodiment payment application may be configured to execute another transaction with checkout application of merchant server to re purchase a particular item listed in transaction records or . In this regard it will be appreciated that payment application may use account information and transaction records to link to merchant server and provide relevant information to merchant server in order to perform such a transaction in response to a selection of one of reorder buttons by user .

In another embodiment payment service provider server may be implemented to redirect browser application of client device to a webpage associated with a particular item listed in transaction records or . In this regard it will be appreciated that payment service provider server may use transaction records to provide a relevant link to a webpage associated with the item in response to a user s selection of one of reorder buttons . It will be appreciated that the above identified features associated with reorder buttons may be particularly useful to customers that frequently repurchase items such as refills of consumable office supplies e.g. paper or printer cartridges food medication or other items to be replenished.

Returning to in step user selects one of reorder buttons of user interface . In one embodiment the following step may be performed by payment application executing another transaction with checkout application of merchant server to re purchase the particular item associated with the selected reorder button . It will be appreciated that in this embodiment previously described steps through of may be performed to provide payment service provider with transaction information e.g. to be stored by payment service provider server as an additional transaction record associated with the new transaction performed in step .

In another embodiment step may be performed by payment service provider server redirecting browser application of client device to a webpage associated with the particular item associated with the selected reorder button . In this embodiment steps through of may be performed to provide payment service provider with transaction information associated with the new transaction performed in step .

Payment service provider server then passes a request to warranty management server requesting warranty information corresponding to the matching items step . As previously described warranty management server includes a warranty database which may be configured to store warranty information associated with various items identified by products services database of merchant server . Accordingly in step warranty management server retrieves any available warranty information concerning the requested items from warranty database . Also in step warranty management server passes such warranty information to payment service provider . For example in one embodiment such warranty information may identify an association between the requested item and a standard warranty period e.g. ninety days one year or other periods .

In step payment service provider server calculates the warranty expiration date associated with the requested item. Because the purchase date of the item may be stored by payment service provider server as part of transaction records payment service provider server can proceed to calculate the warranty expiration date using the purchase date and the warranty information received from warranty management server .

In step payment service provider server serves the warranty expiration date to client device for display to user by for example browser application . For example illustrates a sample user interface that may be displayed to user on client device by browser application for viewing warranty information during step . In this regard user interface includes a search window into which user may enter desired search terms. A user operable button is also provided which may cause transaction record processing application to search transaction records for the terms entered in search window request and retrieve corresponding warranty information and display such information in a window .

In the embodiment illustrated in transaction record processing application has returned warranty information for one previously purchased item associated with the search term MP3 entered in search window . In this regard it will be appreciated that warranty information identifies the item purchased and its purchase date each of which may be obtained from one of transaction records e.g. transaction record previously described with regard to .

In this case warranty management server has retrieved warranty information corresponding to the displayed MP3 PLAYER item. Specifically warranty management server has found that the item is associated with a one year warranty period. Accordingly as shown in the warranty expiration date has been calculated as occurring one year from the purchase date.

As also shown in user interface may further include user selectable buttons and which may be implemented to permit user to submit a warranty claim or purchase a warranty extension respectively. In this regard it will be appreciated that payment service provider server may be configured to interact with an appropriate warranty management provider through for example warranty management server merchant server or other servers over network which may be configured to facilitate such features. Returning to in optional step user may choose to submit a warranty claim or purchase a warranty extension as described above with regard to buttons and .

Although warranty management server and warranty database have been described with respect to providing warranty information such portions of the present disclosure may optionally be adapted to service other types of information associated with particular items purchased by user in previous transactions with merchant server . For example server may be implemented to provide payment service provider server with various terms and conditions associated with items identified in transaction records as such information may be desired in particular implementations.

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described for storing retrieving and utilizing transaction records associated with online transactions. Advantageously transaction records for a plurality of different merchants may be aggregated by a payment service provider in a centralized manner thereby allowing a user to search the records. Such transaction records may be associated with user selectable links to permit users to reorder previously purchased items obtain warranty information and request warranty services for items referenced by the transaction records. The transaction records may also be used for tracking chargebacks associated with particular merchants and for dispute resolution.

Advantageously payment service providers may leverage the above described integrated warranty features to motivate additional purchases by users. For example by providing users with selectable links for purchasing warranty extensions payment service providers may offer their services to facilitate such transactions. In addition payment service providers may offer automatic warranty extensions to users for items purchased using their services. The availability of such features may also be used by payment service providers to encourage additional merchants to accept payment from such payment service providers.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure can be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components can be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data can be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein can be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein can be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present invention whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

flaying thus described embodiments of the invention persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the invention is limited only by the claims.

