---

title: Supported, self-optimizing wireless networks, optimized with respect to energy, mobility, and capacity
abstract: Technology is discussed for self-optimization approaches within wireless networks to optimize networks for energy efficiency, load capacity, and/or mobility, together with new, supporting channel state measurements and handover techniques. New, Channel State Information-Reference Signals (CSI-RSs) for yet-to-be-configured Cell-IDentifications (Cell-IDs) can be used to determine whether adjacent transmission cells can provide coverage for transmission cells that can be switched off for energy efficiency during formation of a Single Frequency Network (SFN). New approaches are also discussed to facilitate mobility within such a network. The new CSI-RSs and mobility approaches can also be used to split up such a SFN when changing load demands so require. Additionally, such new approaches can be used to create a SFN with a common Cell-ID where high mobility is required, such as near a roadway, and to break it up where high capacity is required, such as during a period of traffic congestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09125091&OS=09125091&RS=09125091
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09125091
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130104
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 624 185 filed Apr. 13 2012.

To improve performance with respect to different parameters wireless networks can self optimize. A wireless network can be optimized by making changes at transmission cells within a wireless network. In a self optimizing network these changes can be determined and implemented by the network itself.

Self optimization approaches are currently applied within wireless networks in a limited number of ways with respect to a limited number of parameters. Due to the limited ways in which self optimizing networks have been applied a potential exists to improve wireless networks in different ways through self optimization. The ways in which such improvements can be achieved remain to be discovered. However several difficulties can arise with respect to the implementation of a self optimization approach even once an application is discovered.

Self optimization within a wireless network involves changes within the wireless network. These changes rely on supporting infrastructure to allow the changing network to continue to perform its function. In particular a wireless network still needs infrastructure to provide services to mobile communication devices within the network despite the changes taking place at transmission cells therein. Limitations in supporting infrastructure can prevent the flexibility with which wireless networks can self optimize.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary examples illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting.

As an important statement of the generality of examples discussed in this disclosure while the terminology of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard is often used throughout this specification it is not intended to be limiting and there are exceptions in the use of more general terminology in portions of this specification to further communicate this point.

Different terminology for wireless mobile devices is used in different specifications. As used herein a wireless mobile device can be a User Equipment UE or a Mobile Station MS among other possibilities. Throughout this application the terms wireless mobile device UE and MS can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term transmission node is defined as a wireless communication device in a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN configured to communicate with a plurality of wireless mobile devices located within a geographic region referred to as a cell. Different terminologies for transmission nodes are used in different specifications. Terminology used for different variations of a transmission node can include but are not limited to a Base Station BS an evolved Node B eNodeB or eNB a WWAN transmission node a transmission node a wireless transmission node and a WWAN node. The terms are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted. The actual definition of a BS or eNodeB is provided in their Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 and the 3GPP specifications.

As used herein the term transmission cell refers to any entity to which a Physical Cell Identifier PCIs or Cell IDentifications Cell IDs can be assigned. Throughout the specification the terms Cell ID and PCI can be used interchangeably. For example a transmission cell can refer to a single transmission node. As multiple PCIs Cell IDs can be assigned to multiple different Component Carriers CCs corresponding to different spans of the frequency spectrum a single transmission node can have multiple transmission cells. Additionally a transmission cell can refer to multiple transmission nodes and or CCs assigned a common PCIs Cell ID even where CCs pertain to different transmission nodes. As used throughout this application transmission node cell can refer to a transmission node a transmission cell or both.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology examples is provided below and then specific technology examples are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Multiple exemplary examples can be implemented on an evolved Node B eNodeB and or an Operation Maintenance O M module located within a Core Network CN such as an Evolved Packet Core EPC . In certain examples directed to optimization of energy efficiency load information can be acquired for a set of transmission nodes cells within a selected coverage area. A reduced set of these transmission nodes cells can then be selected as capable of providing coverage to the selected coverage area. The reduced set can be selected based on measurements from Channel State Information Reference Signals CSI RSs that can be indexed to yet to be configured Physical Cell Identifiers PCIs Cell IDentifications Cell IDs sent to a plurality of UEs within the selected coverage area.

These CSI RSs indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs can be embedded with identification information. The identification information can allow a measurement of the CSI RSs as performed by UEs to which the CSI RSs are broadcast to be indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs and to be identified with the individual transmission nodes cells transmitting them. This identification can be made even despite the transmission nodes cells in the selected coverage area sharing a common Cell IDentification Cell ID . Such measurements can be used to select the reduced set of transmission nodes cells by indicating adjacent transmission nodes cells that can transmit and receive with sufficient strength to and from UEs within the coverage area of a transmission node cell experiencing a relatively low load.

Transmission nodes cells with such low loads whose coverage areas can be covered by adjacent transmission nodes cells can be left off the reduced set of transmission nodes cells that will maintain coverage for the selected coverage area. Transmission nodes cells on the reduced set of transmission nodes can be reconfigured into a Single Frequency Network SFN with a common Cell ID. Because the measurements can be indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs the selected coverage area can be insured to receive coverage with fewer transmission nodes cells.

Several approaches can be used to handover UEs and or reconfigure UEs with new PCIs Cell IDs in the selected coverage area. For example a reconfiguration message can be sent to a plurality of UEs associated with the set of transmission nodes cells. The reconfiguration message which can comprise an indication for the plurality of UEs to stop transmission a value of the new PCI Cell ID and or a corresponding time when the new PCI Cell ID will be operational can be sent to allow the UEs to connect to a set of transmission nodes cells when the set of transmission nodes cells are reconfigured with the new PCI Cell ID. The reconfiguration message can be embedded in a value tag and or a paging message. As another example the reconfiguration message can comprise a common handover command message sent to the plurality of UEs via multicast signaling. The common handover command can provide parameters such as one or more Cell Radio Network Temporary Identifiers C RNTIs one or more target transmission node cell security algorithm identifiers information for a dedicated Random Access CHannel RACH and or target eNodeB system information that can be used to perform a handover for the plurality of UEs to the reconfigured set of transmission nodes cells with the new PCI Cell ID.

In some examples after the formation of an SFN with a common Cell ID it can be determined that one or more additional transmission nodes cells would improve handling of traffic load increases within the selected coverage area. Additional CSI RSs for yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs can be generated and sent as discussed above. The corresponding measurements can be used to reconfigure one or more additional transmission nodes cells with one or more new PCIsCell IDs. Handover and or reconfiguration of UEs to transmission nodes cells with one or more new PCIs Cell IDs can also be facilitated by handover and or reconfiguration of UE PCI Cell ID methods along the lines discussed with respect to the preceding examples.

The preceding examples of CSI RS generation for yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs and UE handover and PCI Cell ID reconfiguration can also facilitate the Self Optimization of Networks SONs to adapt to changing demands for high mobility and load capacity. For example load capacity can be a primary concern along a highway during periods of high traffic congestion with multiple users traveling at relatively low speeds resulting in high volumes of data with few handovers occurring between cells. However during periods of low traffic the number of users can be greatly reduced by users traveling through an area at a relatively high speed. The higher speed travel during periods of low traffic results in a fairly low amount of data at each cell but with a much greater number of handovers relative to the high traffic congestion example. Depending on the volume of a traffic load in such an area and or the speed of UEs therein one of a high mobility Cell ID configuration and a high load capacity Cell ID configuration can be selected.

When high mobility is the priority a set of transmission nodes cells in the area can be configured within an SFN and a common PCI Cell ID using new handover procedures discussed above. The SFN with the common PCI Cell ID can significantly reduce the number of handovers that occur for users traveling at highway speeds. With the SFN and the common PCI Cell ID the mobility overhead is greatly reduced to achieve high mobility. When high capacity is called for multiple transmission nodes cells with different PCIs cell IDs can be implemented. These multiple transmission nodes cells with different PCIs cell IDs can adjust to increased loads with greater spectral efficiency. The transmission from fewer to more PCIs Cell IDs can be facilitated with the CSI RSs for yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs and approaches to handover discussed above. Additional details for several exemplary examples are now provided below with the aid of the following figures.

The capacity booster can be a Low Power Node LPN . An LPN can comprise one of a micro cell a pico cell a femto cell a home eNodeB cell HeNB a Remote Radio Head RRH a Remote Radio Equipment RRE a repeater or another type of transmission node having a lower power than is typically used at an MCN eNodeB. The basic coverage eNodeB and the capacity booster can be communicatively coupled over a backhaul link . The backhaul link is typically formed using a wired or optical connection. Communication over the backhaul link can be accomplished using an interface such as by way of example and not limitation an X2 interface.

As depicted in several UEs reside within the booster coverage area . The basic coverage eNodeB can therefore turn on the capacity booster as depicted in to increase capacity and maintain improve a quality of service for the UEs in the booster coverage area. However transmissions from the capacity booster can be energy intensive and can be unnecessary at times.

The decision to switch off the capacity booster or to reactivate the capacity booster can be taken autonomously by the basic coverage eNodeB or an O M module located within a CN such as an EPC on an as needed basis. The decision can be based on load information for various transmission nodes cells in the SON and general configuration information for the SON. The basic coverage eNodeB can initiate handover actions to off load the capacity booster being switched off and can provide a cause value to the target eNodeB indicating the reason for handover to facilitate potential subsequent handovers.

As contextual information for the discussion that follows although depictions are made in through that focus on transmission nodes with a single transmission cell depictions in through are consistent with transmission nodes with one or more transmission cells which could arise from a transmission node with multiple Component Carriers CCs . The focus on transmission nodes in depictions are made in through is done for simplicity of explanation. However the concepts discussed with respect to these figures are equally applicable to all types of transmission cells. This point is further communicated by the random use of the term transmission node cell and the depictions in through .

Although the selected coverage area comprises eleven transmission nodes in as can be appreciated larger and smaller selected coverage areas are consistent with the present invention. The selected coverage area can make up a SON or only a portion thereof. In certain examples the selected coverage area can be determined by the O M module and or a network operator based on traffic patterns within a given area.

Although basic coverage nodes can typically be MCN eNodeBs as depicted in they may also be LPNs depending on relevant standards. Each eNodeB has a corresponding coverage area within the overall selected coverage area . Within the selected coverage area multiple UEs are located.

A lattice of backhaul communication links is depicted in over which basic coverage nodes can communicate with one another. For purposes of illustration the lattice of backhaul links is only depicted for a subset of the basic coverage nodes . However similar backhaul communication links can extend to the remaining basic coverage nodes and even non basic coverage nodes . The backhaul communication links can but need not necessarily comprise X2 communication links. The backhaul communication links can extend between each eNodeB in the selected coverage area or communications can be relayed between eNodeBs along a path where no direct communication link is available.

Also depicted are CN communication links by which eNodeBs can communicate with the CN . Such CN communication links can provide direct communication between an eNodeB and the CN. Such direct CN communication links to the CN can be established between basic coverage nodes non basic coverage nodes MCNs and or LPNs. Although a subset of eNodeBs and are shown with CN communication links for purposes of illustration any of the eNodeBs can have a CN communication link. Alternatively eNodeBs without a direct CN communication link can communicate with the CN indirectly by relay over backhaul communication links and or capacity extending backhaul links through certain eNodeBs with CN communication links. Information communicated to the CN can be communicated to the O M module residing therein.

The capacity extending backhaul links can but need not necessarily be used as the backhaul link depicted in and to communicate autonomous decisions from a basic coverage eNodeBs and and or the O M module to switch on or off the non basic coverage eNodeBs . Additionally peer eNodeBs can be informed of a decision by a basic coverage eNodeB for example eNodeB to switch on or off a non basic coverage eNodeB for example over the lattice of backhaul links and or capacity extending backhaul links . In the example referred to in the previous sentence peer eNodeBs can include immediately adjacent eNodeBs and but larger and smaller groupings are consistent with examples. The O M module can be similarly notified over one or more CN communication links.

In examples relying on the 3GPP standard the eNodeB Configuration Update procedure and the Cell Activation procedure can serve these roles respectively for switch off and switch on scenarios. Additionally informed eNodeBs can maintain the relevant configuration data. Details for this energy saving functionality restricted to the switching on and off of capacity boosters are provided in greater detail in Section 2.4.4. of TS 36.300 of Release 10 for the LTE standard promulgated by the Third 3GPP.

Self optimization functionality relying on capacity boosters as described for example in 3GPP LTE TS 36.300 however is severely limited. Capacity boosters by definition are incidental to the basic coverage of a SON irrespective of how light demands placed on the SON may be. However scenarios often can occur where one or more basic coverage nodes are not needed to provide coverage. Standards like 3GPP LTE TS 36.300 are insufficiently flexible to take advantage of such scenarios.

Furthermore capacity boosters do not include MCN eNodeBs or their equivalents and are limited to LPNs such as pico cells and femto cells which by definition are already low power and low energy consuming nodes. The power consumed by an MCN for example is often greater than the power consumed by an LPN by more than an order of magnitude. Therefore approaches like 3GPP LTE TS 36.300 are not only inflexible but miss large potential gains in energy efficiency which is a key optimization parameter for environmental and cost reasons.

In many scenarios such as during times of light traffic many eNodeBs including MCN eNodeBs can be switched off. Data traffic can vary in many ways that do not observe formalistic distinctions such as that between the coverage areas associated with basic coverage nodes and non basic coverage nodes. Studies indicate that often 75 of eNodeBs can be switched off without affecting coverage. Often especially during times of light traffic some of these eNodeBs could include MCN eNodeBs. Yet unlike switching off an unessential capacity booster turning off a basic coverage node like an MCN with a large coverage area without addressing service needs for UEs in the associated coverage area can create a coverage hole.

Exemplary examples are described below to increase the flexibility of SONs in ways that allow for more transmission nodes including MCN eNodeBs to be switched on off to optimize energy savings and dynamically adapt to changing capacity demands. This added flexibility can also be used to optimize SONs with respect to additional parameters such as mobility. Furthermore these exemplary examples can build on previous standards such as 3GPP LTE TS 36.300 or replace them. In certain exemplary examples coverage can be insured for a selected coverage area while switching off eNodeBs to optimize energy savings by reconfiguring transmission nodes in a selected coverage area with a common cell ID which can also be operated in an SFN mode.

The formation of an SFN with a common cell ID can begin with the sharing of load information. The load from UEs assigned to the various eNodeBs can be measured and exchanged over the lattice of backhaul communication links . Throughout the figures of this application the magnitude of a load experienced by a transmission node is loosely depicted by the number of UEs that reside within the coverage area associated with that transmission node. Where UEs reside within multiple coverage areas they can be considered to be represent loads that can be assigned to the multiple corresponding transmission nodes. The number of UEs within a coverage area can be interpreted as a relative number of UEs or a relative bandwidth requirement. The representations are provided as examples in the drawings. The actual loads can vary based on the system design and use.

Load information can also or in the alternative be shared with the O M module in the CN over the CN communication links . Where load information is exchanged between transmission nodes over one or more X2 interfaces in examples consistent with LTE standards the Relative Narrowband Transmission Power RNTP messages can be used to carry the load information between transmission nodes. Where load information is shared with the O M module over S1 interfaces in examples consistent with LTE standards load information can be included in the S1 Transport Network Layer TNL load.

For example MCN eNodeB only shows four UEs within its coverage area . Since each of two of these UEs are also in either the coverage area for LPN or the coverage area for LPN MCN eNodeB can be assigned as few as two or three UEs and as many as four. This is a comparatively light load compared to the other MCN eNodeBs that vary between six and seven UEs in their respective coverage areas . Additionally the coverage areas and pertaining to transmission nodes and each only span a single UE. What is more these single UEs are also susceptible to being assigned to MCN eNodeBs for transmission nodes and and MCN eNodeBs for . Despite the limited capacity of LPNs and the limited UE loads of one to none can translate into relatively small loads. The RRH also has a low load because there are no UEs in its coverage area

A low load list i.e. a list of eNodeBs within the selected coverage area or a portion thereof can be generated from the load information shared and or exchanged over the lattice of backhaul communication links capacity extending backhaul links and or CN communication links . As depicted in the low load list can be generated at the O M module . However the low load list can also be generated at one or more transmission nodes within the selected coverage area in concert or not in concert with the O M module.

As can be appreciated from the preceding discussion the low load list can comprise MCN eNodeBs and transmission nodes and as indicated by the corresponding arrows and emboldened boarders for coverage areas and . As also can be appreciated many consistent examples are not limited by the numbers of UEs discussed in determining the low load list with respect to . The number of UEs can vary widely and many additional or alternative parameters can be used for determining one or more thresholds for inclusion of a transmission node in a low load list. Such thresholds and parameters can be responsive to a wide array of variables such as by way of example and not limitation transmission power proximity to adjacent transmission nodes and or nature of adjacent transmission nodes.

The low load list can be considered as containing candidate transmission nodes for consideration to switched off but inclusion on the list need not mean that a transmission node is to be switched off. Unless no UE is assigned to the transmission nodes in the low load list turning off the transmission nodes can result in coverage holes and dropped service. However determinations can first be made about whether adjacent transmission nodes can step in for transmission nodes in the low load list before such transmission nodes can be switched off. Provision can also be made to handover UEs from transmission nodes in the low load list. The discussion accompanying the following figures describes new technologies that make such determinations and handovers possible.

For example such measurements can be used to determine the potential of a potential SFN to provide coverage over an area where other transmission nodes would potentially be switched off during reconfiguration of a SON. Without such predictive measurements potential coverage holes could result from efforts to save power by switching off eNodeBs other than those strictly designated capacity boosters and are non essential to basic coverage. Additionally such measurements can also be used where a wireless network is deployed to serve highway traffic with different capacity and mobility management requirements during periods of traffic congestion as opposed to off peak hours. With such measurements as discussed at a later portion of this application a SON can reconfigure a set of cells during off peak hours to use the same cell ID to reduce the mobility overhead and later split the different cells to increase spectral efficiency during periods of high demand associated with traffic congestion.

In both classes of examples measurements can aid the SON to determine the applicability of cell re configuration and operation of multiple cells in an SFN mode before a re configuration is applied. Also where a set of cells operating in SFN mode with a common Cell ID is reconfigured into cells with different Cell IDs the measurements can be used for mobility control to determine to which of the different Cell IDs various UEs should be assigned. Therefore measurements can facilitate 1 providing feedback about the potential coverage if certain cells are switched off and remaining cells reconfigured to have cells with a common Cell ID in an SFN before the reconfiguration is actually decided upon and 2 facilitate mobility management from a common Cell ID to different Cell IDs.

The configuration message which in examples consistent with 3GPP can be an RRC message is depicted during transmission from MCN eNodeB to the first UE and the second UE . Although the same information can be transmitted to both UEs for purpose of illustration a portion of that information is depicted in the transmission to the second UE. As depicted the configuration message can include a list or set of one or more units of configuration information for transmissions that can be used by UEs for channel state measurements. In examples consistent with 3GPP LTE the transmissions can be CSI RS transmissions and the units of information can provide configuration information about the CSI RS transmissions.

In the list or set comprises eight units of configuration information . However greater or fewer numbers of units of configuration can be found in the configuration message . A unit of configuration information can provide information linking transmissions used to measure channel information for one or more transmission nodes and or cells from which they are transmitted with respect to the yet to be configured Cell IDs to which they belong allowing optimization determinations to be made with respect to these yet to be configured Cell IDs.

In examples consistent with Release 10 and later LTE standards of the 3GPP in which the transmissions used to measure channel information can comprise CSI RS transmissions the units of configuration information can comprise information about the configuration of the CSI RSs. This configuration information can provide information about parameters embedded in CSI RSs. The embedded parameters can be indexed to one or more yet to be configured Cell IDs and can be used by UEs measuring the CSI RSs to link their measurements to such yet to be configured Cell IDs.

For example in examples making use of CSI RSs transmission node specific CSI RSs can be generated at one or more transmission nodes and or the O M module . To produce transmission node specific CSI RSs existing approaches to CSI RS generation can be modified. For example CSI RSs can be generated as a product of an orthogonal sequence and a pseudo random sequence where there can be three different orthogonal sequences and 168 different pseudo random sequences allowing for 504 unique cell identities e.g. 0 to 503 . A pseudo random sequence can be initialized with an initial sequence element c where cis defined by Equation 1 as 2 7 1 1 2 1 2 . 1 

Equation 1 is set forth in Section 6.10.1.1 of TS 36.211 for the LTE standard of the 3GPP for Releases 8 through 11. In this equation nis the slot number within a radio frame l is the Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM symbol Nis either 1 or 0 depending on whether the Cyclic Prefix CP is normal or extended respectively and Nis the PCI Cell ID for the respective cell transmitting CSI RS. Since Nis the PCI Cell ID for the respective cell transmitting the CSI RS such a CSI RS lacks information that could be used to link measurements of such a CSI RSs to a potential coverage characteristic for a yet to be configured cell with a new Cell ID.

However by changing the term Nto a configurable parameter X that can be changed to correspond to various sets of transmission nodes cells in a selected coverage area measurements of a CSI RS can be linked to a yet to be configured Cell ID and the corresponding transmission nodes cells from which the CSI RS is transmitted. Because of the three different orthogonal sequences and 168 different pseudo random sequences that can be used to generated CSI RSs the parameter X can range for example from 0 to 503 and can be indexed to 504 different transmission nodes and or cells including transmission nodes and or cells for which a Cell ID has not yet been assigned.

Such yet to be configured cells can include multiple transmission nodes and or cells to potentially be assigned with a common Cell ID. In certain examples the common Cell ID can take a value previously assigned to a transmission node and or cell within a potential SFN. For example one or more eNodeBs and or the O M module can configure the same initial sequence element c for the pseudo random sequence generated for the CSI RS to be transmitted from different cells that are identified as potential candidates for SFN operation with a common Cell ID. In such examples one or more eNodeBs and or the O M module can then instruct the candidate transmission nodes and or cells to transmit the common CSI RS on a common set of CSI RS antenna ports such as some combination of ports to over the same time frequency resources. The selection of candidate cells is discussed in more detail below.

In certain examples the parameter X can be set to a distinct value for one or more transmission nodes cells based cells that previously shared a common PCI Cell ID with one or more transmission nodes cells. Examples include scenarios where it is desirable to increase spectral frequency by removing one or more transmission nodes and or cells from an SFN with a common Cell ID. Additionally examples can include scenarios where an LPN is coupled with an MCN eNodeB as a coverage booster with a common ID further increasing the flexibility with measurements can be made to optimize SONs.

Because the value of the parameter X which is indexed to one or more transmission nodes cells can be embedded in the pseudo random sequence from which the CSI RS can be derived the one or more transmission nodes cells to which the parameter X can be linked can be derived from the CSI RS. To enable UEs to derive the one or more transmission nodes cells transmitting a given CSI RS the value of the parameter X can be provided to those UEs.

The choice of parameter X can be included in the configuration message depicted in and cinitConfig r in so that UEs can derive the one or more transmission nodes cells transmitting a given CSI RS. Additionally the choice of multiple instances of the parameter X can be communicated in the multiples units of configuration information in the configuration list or set . Measurements of the given CSI RS can then be linked to the one or more transmitting transmission nodes cells to share a yet to be configured PCI Cell ID. Examples of such measurements that can be used for purposes of determining potential coverage can include Reference Signal Received Power RSRP measurements and or Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ measurements.

As can be appreciated the use of CSI RSs generated as discussed above can be used to provide feedback in the form for example of RSRP RSRQ measurements from the UEs in a region that can potentially be optimized. The measurements can help a SON evaluate the coverage conditions and identify a set of transmission nodes and or cells that can be turned off and the corresponding set of cells that can be configured with a common Cell ID to transmit in SFN mode when the traffic loading indicates such a reconfiguration. The same principles discussed herein with respect to CSI RSs can also be applied with respect to Cell specific Reference Signals CRSs .

The first UE through the fifth UE reside in at least one coverage area pertaining to a transmission node on the low load list meaning that the coverage of these UEs could potentially be disturbed by the switch off of a transmission node on the low load list. To avoid coverage disruption a common CSI RS is transmitted from those transmission nodes and within candidate set of transmission nodes and or cells for a potential SFN with a common PCI Cell ID corresponding to the common CSI RS.

As can be appreciated from the crossed out circles and lack of transmission arrows transmission nodes and are not included in the candidate set of transmission nodes and or cells for a potential SFN with a common PCI Cell ID for the scenario depicted in . Although only one candidate set of transmission nodes and or cells is depicted a similar common CSI RS can be sent for multiple different candidate sets of transmission nodes and or cells. Indications from resultant measurements of the potential coverage area associated with the various candidate sets can be compared. In these comparisons potential energy savings can be weighed.

Various approaches can be used to determine and or generate candidate sets from which a common CSI RS can be transmitted. Candidate sets can be determined at one or more transmission nodes and or the O M module . In some examples the low load list can be used to generate different candidate sets. However the low load list is not necessary to all examples. In examples that do not make use of the low load list candidate sets can be generated as subsets of the low load list.

In certain examples a candidate set can be generated for every possible subset of a low load list. Since the number of possible candidate sets generated is the product of binary choices to include or exclude each transmission node cell on the low load list in a given candidate set the number of possible candidate sets would be equal to 2 where n is the number of candidate transmission nodes cells in the low load list. With respect to the low load list depicted in for example 2 or 32 possible candidate sets are possible because there are 5 transmission nodes included in the low load list as depicted.

In certain examples constraints can be placed on candidate sets that can be generated from a low load list to limit the transmission of common CSI RSs. Examples provided by way of example and no limitation can include a minimum number of transmission nodes and or cells and or high power transmission nodes such as MCN eNodeBs to be excluded from possible candidate sets to make energy savings worthwhile. Additionally a low load list can be used in other ways and or in combination with other considerations to generate possible candidate sets. For example cells associated with certain frequency bands and or transmission nodes within certain geographic regions can be given priority for inclusion and or exclusion from potential candidate sets. Such examples can be implemented without consideration of a low load list.

In the case depicted in for purposes of illustration transmission of the common CSI RS is depicted from transmission nodes and in the candidate set. Yet the transmission is only depicted as being received by the second UE . However the transmission of the common CSI RS can also be received by other UEs in the selected coverage area . Indeed the common CSI RS can be transmitted among other potential reasons to determine the ability of UEs to detect and or measure the common CSI RS and or the strength at which the common CSI RS can be measured at various UEs within the selected coverage area.

In certain examples such as the one depicted in the common CSI RS can be transmitted by all transmission nodes and and or cells in the candidate set. In other examples only a subset of the transmission nodes and or cells in the candidate set can transmit the common CSI RS. For example in some examples only transmission nodes cells geographically and or spectrally relevant to transmission nodes cells not in the candidate set can transmit the common CSI RS. In such examples the resources tied up could be reduced to a minimum associated with those UEs with an increased likelihood of coverage problems from transmission nodes cells not in the candidate set that would be switched off. In the case depicted in the first UE through the fifth UE and could experience an increased likelihood of coverage problems because they are located in at least one coverage area associated with a transmission node cell not included in the set of candidate transmission nodes cells.

The common CSI RS received by the second UE can be used by the second UE to generate measurement s that can be used to determine the potential coverage from the candidate set in the area of the second UE. In alternative examples non CSI RS transmissions can be used to generate similar measurements. Reception of the common CSI RS by other UEs in the selected coverage area can be used for similar measurements and or determinations.

Although four channel measurement units are depicted as can be appreciated greater or smaller numbers of channel measurement units are consistent with examples. In some exemplary examples an exemplary UE makes a measurement after each CSI RS such as the common CSI RS depicted in and transmits a measurement message containing a single channel measurement unit.

In other examples an exemplary UE makes measurements of multiple transmissions such as CSI RSs resulting in multiple channel measurement units which can be compiled by the exemplary UE and transmitted in the same measurement message . An indication can be provided to the UE for example in a configuration message similar to the one depicted in indicating a number of candidate sets and or CSI RSs associated therewith. In such examples the UE can wait until the UE has prepared a channel measurement unit for each candidate set or some subset thereof before sending a measurement message with the corresponding channel measurement units. By way of example and not limitation in examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards a channel measurement unit can contain one or more RSRP and or RSRQs measurements.

Although only the second UE is depicted in for ease of illustration and to pick up where the last figure left off other UEs in the selected coverage area can make similar measurements and provide similar measurement messages . In some examples all UEs in the selected coverage area can be configured to provide a measurement message. In alternative examples a subset of the UEs to the exclusion of other UEs in the selected coverage area can be configured to provide one or more measurement messages resulting in a reduction of overhead. A UE can be configured to provide such a measurement by one or more transmission nodes within the SON.

In certain examples in which only a subset of UEs provides one or more measurement messages the subset can be restricted to UEs with an increased likelihood of potential coverage problems if a potential optimizing reconfiguration takes place. For example such a subset could comprise UEs within or near coverage areas or with communication links at certain frequencies that could be affected by a reconfiguration. Inclusion in a low load list and or exclusion from a candidate set of a transmission node cell associated with a coverage area spanning a UE provide non limiting examples of criteria for inclusion in such a subset. For the case depicted in the first UE through the fifth UE and would satisfy both of these criteria.

The candidate set depicted in includes the same transmission nodes and involved in the transmission of the common CSI RS in excluding the same set of excluded transmission nodes and . Transmission nodes in the set of excluded transmission nodes would not transmit and or receive signals resulting in corresponding potential coverage holes and illustrated by the cross hatching corresponding to the coverage areas and corresponding to those transmission nodes and . The first UE through the fifth UE and could potentially be impacted by these potential coverage holes.

However channel measurement units similar to those discussed in the preceding figure received by transmission nodes cells in the SON from one or more of the first UE through the fifth UE and can provide information that can be used to make a determination that the candidate set provides an acceptable level of coverage. The determination can be made at one or more of the transmission nodes and or the O M module and information necessary to made such determination can be passed over the lattice of backhaul communication links and or the CN communication links .

A determination that a candidate set is acceptable can be made after comparing channel measurement units to one or more thresholds based on one or more factors. Examples of such thresholds and or factors can include by way of illustration and not limitation minimum signal strength levels for one or more UEs for UL and or DownLink DL communications Quality of Service QoS requirements for one or more UEs statistically based margins of error for potential increases in demand with respect to bandwidth and or quality. Such thresholds and or factors can be based on considerations specific to the 3GPP LTE standards and or other standards.

A determination can be made that the candidate set in is acceptable based in part on exemplary but non limiting substitute communication paths for transmissions to and from the UEs and in the potential coverage holes and . With respect to the first UE a first substitute communication path can arise between the first UE and transmission node . The proximity of the first UE to the boundary of the coverage area corresponding to transmission node can make the first substitute communication path particularly effective.

Skipping the second UE for a moment although both the third UE and the fourth UE are located in potential coverage hole they are also located in respective coverage area and coverage area associated with respective LPN and LPN both of which are in the candidate set. Therefore a third substitute communication path can arise between the third UE and LPN and a fourth substitute communication path can arise between the fourth UE and LPN . Conversely the fifth UE is within the potential coverage hole associated with LPN . But the fifth UE is also within the coverage area of MCN eNodeB . Therefore a fifth substitute communication path can arise between the fifth UE and MCN eNodeB

Returning to the second UE the location of the second UE can be used to discuss an interesting example. The second UE is located within the potential coverage hole associated with high power transmission node meaning that potential coverage hole can potentially span a large area. Since the second UE is located near the center of this potential coverage hole it can be relatively distant from transmission nodes in the candidate list . In certain examples a single transmission node can provide sufficient substitution for high power transmission node . In some cases one substitute transmission node may not be sufficient or better coverage can be provided by multiple substitute transmission nodes.

In such cases Coordinated Multi Point COMP can be used in examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards or analogous functionality with respect to examples consistent with other standards. In such examples COMP can be applied to both the transmission of the common CSI RS and after reconfiguration. In COMP can lead to a second substitute communication path with a first sub path between the second UE and transmission node and lead to a second sub path between the second UE and transmission node

Once an SFN is formed contributions can be made to the DL communications from all active transmission nodes in the SFN in addition from those involved in the substitute communication paths and . With respect to UL communications UEs and in the potential coverage holes and may need to become re associated with new transmission nodes cells. Furthermore adaptation of the single common Cell ID can involve handover and or reconfiguration of UEs in the SFN not associated with the common Cell ID. Additionally examples where it can be desirable to break up an SFN with a common Cell ID resulting in multiple Cell IDs can result in additional UE handovers and or reconfigurations. Additional new approaches to UE handover and or reconfiguration can be applied to address large numbers of UEs associated with such optimizations. These new approaches can also be tailored to special considerations that arise in examples that provide optimization with increased flexibility.

The scenario described above explains underlying principles but may not fully capture the potential for power savings. Alternative scenarios are possible in which much greater power savings are possible. For example multiple high power transmission points can be switched off. In one such example a candidate set in which alternating MCN eNodeBs are considered for switching off can be presented. With respect to such an example could result in turning off transmission points and . Transmission points and can remain on. In such examples the LPNs can remain on to handle traffic load or be switched off as can also be the case with transmission point

According to a first approach illustrated with respect to the SON timeline and the first UE timeline solid arrow an indication can be provided in a value tag transmitted from a transmission node cell in the SON . The value tag can indicate that a Cell ID associated with the UE can be changed in the next System Information Block SIB modification period.

Upon receiving the value tag the UE can wait until the end of the System Information Block SIB modification period . The UE can then stop transmission activities until it receives a new PCI Cell ID which the UE can substitute for an old PCI Cell ID. Upon receiving the new PCI Cell ID the UE can trigger a measurement report and or initiate the sending of a preamble to measure an UL time. Once the preamble is sent the UE can make a measurement with which to achieve synchronization for the new PCI Cell ID. Once synchronization is achieved transmission and or reception activities can resume with the UE reconfigured for the new PCI Cell ID.

According to a second approach illustrated with respect to the SON timeline and the second UE timeline dashed arrow a paging message can be sent from a transmission node cell in the SON to indicated a change of PCI Cell ID. The paging message can include an Information Element IE . The IE can include the new PCI Cell ID and an effective time for the new PCI Cell ID i.e. a time corresponding to the new PCI Cell ID when the new PCI Cell ID will be effective. In certain examples the effective time can be provided in terms of a System Frame Number.

As with the previous approach the UE can stop transmission after the effective time . A transmission node cell in the SON can transmit the new PCI Cell ID to the UE. Upon receipt of the new PCI Cell ID by the UE the UE can again use the new PCI Cell ID to replace the old PCI Cell ID. The UE can also trigger a measurement report and or initiate the sending of a preamble to measure an UL time. Once the preamble is sent the UE can make a measurement with which to achieve synchronization for the new PCI Cell ID. Once synchronization is achieved transmission and or reception activities can resume with the UE reconfigured for the new PCI Cell ID.

As can be appreciated from the UEs depicted in when a cell is reconfigured there may be a number of UEs in the connected mode. The overhead associated with the handover of all these UEs to enable the UEs to transmit receive correctly with a new Cell ID PCI can be quite large. If reconfiguration occurs relatively often to adapt to a changing traffic load situation or the number of UEs located in the selected coverage area the overhead burden for the many mobility actions for the multiple UEs at each reconfiguration can be significant.

However handover for such reconfigurations can be made more efficient with support for group handovers. Accordingly the handover message can comprise the same handover command message which as depicted in can be transmitted to multiple UEs. In certain examples the transmission of the same handover message can be accomplished via multicast signaling.

In examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the handover message can comprise an RRC message such as an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message including mobilityControlInformation . This RRC message can provide by way of illustration and not limitation values for parameters such as a new Cell Radio Network Temporary Identifier C RNTI target eNodeB security algorithm identifiers an optionally dedicated Random Access CHannel RACH preamble and or target eNodeB system information among other potential items of information. Analogous units of information consistent with non LTE standards can be provided in the handover message in examples consistent with other standards.

The target eNodeB system information such as one or more SIBs can be common for all UEs or a set thereof designated for handover to the same target cell. Therefore one RRC signaling message including one or more target SIBs can be transmitted to those UEs via multicast signaling. In some examples an RRC signaling message can include both common parameter values and UE specific parameter values for all UEs designated for handover.

Furthermore the transmission nodes and within the candidate set described with respect to are depicted in an active state as indicated by the lightning bolt and ripple symbols. However transmission nodes not in the candidate set are depicted in a switched off state and as indicated by the emboldened circles with the crossbars and the lack of lightning bolt and ripple symbols. As indicated by the bold lines used to demark the boundary of the common PCI and or Cell ID the new common PCI Cell ID is applied for the SFN across the entire selected coverage area .

Because of the switched off state of certain transmission nodes and in the selected coverage area significant energy savings can be obtained by the SFN. These energy savings are further increased significantly because of the high power transmission node which can be an MCN eNodeB included among the switched off transmission nodes. The new CSI RSs and resultant measurements could confirm coverage across the SFN before reconfiguration to allow for increased flexibility in the optimizations that can be performed including optimizations that can switch off high power transmission nodes. Additionally several new approaches to reconfigure UEs for changes in cell identification as discussed above make possible efficiencies in mobility management that can become important with such optimizations. After formation of an SFN with a common Cell ID optimization of coverage can be achieved by antenna tilting.

Such energy saving is made possible by low traffic loads within the selected coverage area . However traffic loads can be dynamic in ways that result in scenarios not suited for a previously appropriate SFN with a common PCI Cell ID. As traffic loads increase and perhaps become concentrated in certain geographic regions it may become desirable to split up an SFN such as the one depicted in .

The number of UEs within the coverage area previously associated with high power transmission node has increased from four to fourteen. Similarly the number of UEs within the coverage area previously associated with LPN has increased from one to three. The change in distribution can mean that the adjacent transmission nodes such as transmission nodes and as discussed with respect to can no longer provide coverage for cells that have been switched off. Therefore it can become desirable to switch on transmission nodes cells that were previously switched off in the formation of an SFN with a common Cell ID.

Also the number of UEs within the selected coverage area has increased from forty four at the first time to fifty eight at the second time . The increase in numbers of UEs can make the poor spectral efficiency of the SFN problematic for the increased capacity demands. Therefore the higher capacity associated with the frequency reuse that could be made possible by splitting the SFN into new cells can become desirable.

For reasons such as those discussed above one or more determinations can be made within a SON to switch on one or more transmission nodes cells and or to reconfigure certain transmission nodes cells with different PCIs Cell IDs as traffic loads change irrespective of whether the transmission nodes cells with a common Cell ID PCI operate in SFN mode. Such determinations can be made at one or more transmission nodes and and or the O M module . To accomplish reconfiguration with one or more Cell IDs one or more sets of UEs can be handed over to or reconfigured with respect to different transmission nodes cells with different Cell IDs PCIs.

Efficient handover and or reconfiguration processes in response to such determinations can be accomplished with channel measurements for yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs. Such measurements for mobility management can be made on transmissions that can be indexed as originating from transmission nodes cell for the yet to be configured Cell IDs. Such transmissions can be generated in ways similar to those discussed above. UEs can also be provided with information to allow them to index their measurements of such transmissions in ways similar to those discussed above.

For purposes of illustration and not limitation such transmission and measurements are discussed here with respect to examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards. However examples consistent with alternative standards are also possible with analogous implementations. In LTE consistent examples UEs can make mobility management measurements comprising one or more RSRP RSRQ measurements that can be indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs. To allow RSRP RSRQ mobility management measurements to be indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs they can be based on CSI RSs that are generated to be so indexed in accordance with previous discussions.

As previously discussed with respect to and UEs can be provided with information allowing them to index mobility management measurements via RRC transmissions. For example CSI RS configuration information from which transmission nodes cells transmitting various CSI RSs can be indexed to yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs can be communicated to UEs via one or more RRC transmissions. RRC transmission can minimize signaling overhead. However other signaling methods consistent with other examples can also be used to indicate different sets of CSI RS resources configurations for mobility management measurements via dedicated RRC signaling if appropriate information regarding relative UE locations is available at the SON side.

The set of CSI RS resources to be configured for RSRP RSRQ mobility management measurements can be independent of a similar set of CSI RS resources generated for CoMP Resource Management CRM . The RSRP RSRQ mobility management measurements can also be independent of similar measurements for CRM. Furthermore RRC signaling supporting RSRP RSRQ mobility management measurements can also be independent of any RRC signaling for RCM. Therefore provision can be made with respect to CSI RS generation RRC signaling and for RSRP RSRQ measurements with respect to mobility management for yet to be configured Cell IDs separate and apart for any similar provision made for CRM for the 3GPP LTE standards for Release 11 and or Releases beyond Release 11.

Measurements for mobility management can often be made by UEs in neighboring coverage areas that are not subjected to reconfiguration. Irrespective of whether a new PCI Cell ID is configured for multiple transmission nodes cells in an SFN or whether new PCIs Cell IDs are configured to break up a common PCI Cell ID a change in PCI Cell ID is involved. For UEs connected to a reconfigured cell with a new PCI Cell ID the new PCI Cell ID can be provided in a handover command message or during reconfiguration of those UEs for the new PCI Cell ID. However UEs connected to neighboring cells may also need information about the reconfigured PCI Cell ID for purposes of mobility management.

Such UEs can perform channel measurement on neighboring transmission nodes cells that can be used to make determinations about cells. When the neighboring transmission nodes cells are to be reconfigured UEs can require information about when the cell with this new PCI Cell ID is started and the cell with the old PCI Cell ID is no longer available for the neighboring measurement.

In certain examples a transmission node cell e.g. high power transmission node can notify other neighboring transmission nodes of the impending change of PCI Cell ID. The notification can take place via a reconfiguration message which in some examples can be an X2 message over the lattice of backhaul communication links similar to the one depicted in . The reconfiguration message can include the old PCI Cell ID the new PCI Cell ID and or the timing when the reconfiguration will be effective. Similar information can be provided to the O M module and or from the O M module over CN communication links similar to those depicted in .

Upon receipt of the reconfiguration message a neighboring cell can reconfigure a neighboring cell list maintained by the cell. By way of example and not limitation in examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standard a MeasObjectEUTRA Information Element can be used to remove the old PCI Cell ID and to add the new PCI Cell ID. To disseminate this information to the UEs in the coverage area of the neighboring transmission node cell in examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standard the neighboring transmission node cell can transmit information from the reconfiguration message to connected mode UEs in the coverage area via dedicated RRC signaling. With respect to idle mode UEs the neighboring transmission node cell can update SIB and or SIB with information from the reconfiguration message.

As can be appreciated if there are many UEs in a neighboring coverage area that would perform mobility measurements on a transmission node cell to be reconfigured the large number of RRC signaling messages can lead to significant signaling overhead. To reduce overhead and to accomplish signaling more efficiently instead of dedicated RRC signaling a neighboring transmission node cell can broadcast information for changes in one or more Cell IDs PCIs even for connected mode UEs. Such broadcast information can provide information about a set of PCIs Cell IDs to be removed and a set of new PCIs Cell IDs to be added potentially together with timing information. Where the relationship between old PCIs Cell IDs and new PCIs Cell IDs is included in the broadcast information in examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards other parameters like the cell index and cell offset can be reused for the new PCIs Cell IDs. With mobility management issues addressed reconfiguration can proceed.

In certain examples LPN can simply be switched on sharing a PCI Cell ID with an associated high power transmission node. However in alternative examples the increased flexibility provided by approaches discussed above can allow such an LPN to receive its own PCI Cell ID or become associated with new transmission nodes cells receiving a new PCI Cell ID. Although the first and second new PCIs Cell IDs each include only a single transmission node in several consistent examples new PCIs Cell IDs can be formed with multiple transmission nodes cells. Since the first new PCI Cell ID and the second new PCI Cell ID can be distinctly identified within the selected coverage area one or more of them can increase spectral efficiency by operating at frequencies that are distinct from others used in the selected coverage area. As can be appreciated RRH remains switched off.

Although most of the UEs are still associated with the common PCI Cell ID configured to save energy many UEs are associated with the first new PCI Cell ID or the second new PCI Cell ID i.e. those UEs within the respective coverage areas and for the first and second new PCIs Cell IDs.

Since the first new PCI Cell ID and the second new PCI Cell ID can be distinctly identified within the selected coverage area one or more of them can increase spectral efficiency by operating at portions of the spectrum that are distinct from others used in the selected coverage area to increase capacity within the selected coverage area . Switching on the high power transmission node associated with the first new PCI Cell ID and the LPN associated with the second new PCI Cell ID can address the increased density within the respective coverage areas and . As can be appreciated RRH can remain switched off to save energy. After the first new PCI Cell ID and the second new PCI Cell ID have been reconfigured additional optimization can be achieved through antenna tilting.

Energy saving and load capacity are not the only parameters that the supporting approaches to channel measurements and mobility management can assist in providing increased flexibility for optimizations. Mobility can also be a parameter for optimization. For example mobility can play a role in achieving the desirable condition of a balanced load among transmission nodes cells. A balanced load can improve system capacity. Achieving a balanced load can entail distributing load evenly among transmission nodes cells i.e. transferring part of the traffic load from congested cells. These distributions and transfers rely on mobility. Optimization of mobility parameters and or or handover actions therefore can facilitate load balancing. Additionally optimization of mobility can significantly reduce overhead where UEs frequently are re associated with new transmission nodes cells. Furthermore general improvements that can arise from self optimization with respect to mobility can also minimize human interventions in network management and optimization tasks.

Support for mobility load balancing can consist of functions such as load reporting as discussed previously load balancing actions such as those based on handovers and or adapting handover and or reselection configurations. One new example of adapting handover and or reselection configurations can involve dynamic PCI Cell ID configurations relying on the increased flexibility offered by approaches discussed above. By enabling dynamic PCI Cell ID configuration for different transmission nodes cells whether high or low power load balancing and mobility can be further enhanced.

A lattice of backhaul communication links between the series of transmission nodes and is also depicted. As with the lattice of backhaul communication links can comprise X2 interfaces but other backhaul links are possible. Additionally CN communication links are depicted. As with these CN communication links can comprise S1 interfaces but other types of communication links are possible. The CN communication links can allow the one or more transmission nodes to communicate with the O M module in a CN such as an EPC.

Also depicted is a car at a first time and a second time as it travels down the thoroughfare . A UE within the car not depicted can be in a connected mode with transmission node . As can be appreciated a known signal transmitted between the UE within the car at the first time and transmission node will be shifted up in frequency according to the speed of the UE due to the Doppler effect. Conversely a known signal transmitted between the UE within the car at the second time and transmission node can be shifted down in frequency. This shift in frequency can be used at the UE a transmission node and or the O M module to determine the speed of the UE. Measurements of UE speed can be used to make decisions for dynamic PCI Cell ID re configurations to a high mobility Cell ID configuration or a high load capacity configuration.

Because of the lack of traffic UEs within cars traveling along the two lane highway can travel at speeds that can result in frequent handovers and or changes in PCI Cell ID configurations. The lack of traffic also results in a low number of UEs and a low load associated therewith. Times during which the two lane highway is uncongested can be considered as off peak. During off peak times the throughput requirement is low. However handover demands can be high as cars travel at high speed.

A determination can be made at one or more transmission nodes and and or the O M module that off peak and or uncongested traffic conditions obtain. The determination can be made based on one or more of several considerations. Examples of such considerations can include by way of example and not limitation a speed measurement such as measurements described with respect to the preceding figure a time of day a day of the week an event likely to affect traffic conditions along the thoroughfare and or traffic load measurements. Load information and other information pertaining to the previously discussed considerations such as average user speed estimated at a transmission node can be shared among transmission nodes. This information can be shared over the lattice of backhaul communication links and or CN communication links .

Once a determination has been made that off peak and or uncongested traffic conditions obtain a determination can also be made at one or more transmission nodes and and or the O M module to reduce overhead associated with transitions by UEs between transmission nodes cells by combining transmission nodes cells to share a common PCI Cell ID . Similarly one or more determinations can be made about what transmission nodes cells to include within the common PCI Cell ID based on considerations such as those discussed above. In transmission nodes cells sharing the common PCI Cell ID comprise coverage areas indicated by the bold outline and the diagonal cross hatching. Depending on the example the common PCI Cell ID can be configured as an SFN but examples not configured as an SFN are also consistent.

Once a determination has been made to implement a common PCI Cell ID one or more transmission nodes and and or the O M module can send a handover commend and or trigger specifying the handover delay for the UEs associated with the old cell. One or more transmission nodes and or the O M module can reconfigure the common PCI Cell ID. They can also address UE handover to the new PCI Cell ID.

A determination to reconfigure transmission nodes cells through which the thoroughfare passes can be proceeded by measurements as described above of the common PCI Cell ID before it is configured to insure adequate coverage. Additionally any reconfiguration of PCI Cell ID and or handover for UEs can be addressed as discussed above. Measurements that can be used for mobility management during and or after reconfiguration of the common PCI Cell ID are also discussed above. The three transmission nodes and depicted in are depicted as high power transmission nodes such as MCN eNodeBs but examples can also include low power nodes such as LPNs and various numbers of transmission nodes can be involved. The high power transmission nodes illustrate the way in which the examples are not limited to traditional approaches based on switching on or off capacity boosters because of the flexibility provided by additional supporting technologies disclosed herein.

In some examples such as the one depicted in spatial multiplexing methods such as beam forming can be used to include certain cells for coverage areas such as and associated with a common transmission node such as transmission node and through which the thoroughfare passes while not including other cells for coverage areas such also associated with the transmission node. Different PCIs Cell IDs can be assigned to different CCs at transmission nodes for this purpose. In other examples all cells and their corresponding coverage associated with a transmission node can be included in the common PCI Cell ID . By configuring transmission nodes cells with corresponding coverage areas to have a common PCI Cell ID significant reductions in mobility overhead can be achieved.

Although mobility can be improved with the configuration of a common PCI Cell ID improvements can come at the cost of lower throughput. Due for example to the dynamic nature of highway traffic it can be beneficial to adaptively configure portions of the network along a thoroughfare . For example during a period of high traffic a lot of cars are congested in a highway. At such a time higher throughput may be required due to the increased number of UEs in those cars. Additionally due to the low speeds of those cars mobility issues such as handover performance may be less of an issue. Furthermore at such a time it may be desirable to have different transmission nodes cells configured with different PCIs Cell IDs to increase spectrum reuse and hence total throughput.

Also the transmission nodes cells sharing the common PCI Cell ID have each been given their own PCI Cell ID. Transmission node has been assigned the 1PCI Cell ID spanning hexagonal coverage regions . Transmission node has been assigned the 2PCI Cell ID spanning hexagonal coverage regions . Also transmission node has been assigned the 3PCI Cell ID spanning hexagonal coverage regions . The geographic areas corresponding to the various PCIs Cell IDs are depicted as enclosed within the bold boundary lines. The different PCIs Cell IDs can be used to increase throughput capacity and or quality of service by operating at different portions of the spectrum in the different PCIs Cell IDs. Although each transmission node receives a different PCI Cell ID in multiple transmission nodes can share a new PCI Cell ID in various examples.

Again a determination to reconfigure one or more common PCIs Cell IDs into a larger number of PCIs Cell IDs can be proceeded by measurements as described above before the larger number of common PCIs Cell IDs such as the 1PCI Cell ID the 2PCI Cell ID and the 3PCI Cell ID are configured. For example and not by way of limitation one or more transmission nodes and and or the O M module can instruct one or more UEs to do RSRP RSRQ measurements on CSI RSs indexed to the yet to be configured PCIs Cell IDs. Such measurements can be used for example to insure coverage and for handover preparation.

Additionally any reconfiguration of PCI Cell ID and or handover for UEs can be addressed as discussed above. For example and not by way of limitation one or more transmission nodes and or the O M module can send a handover commend and or trigger and specify the handover delay for the UEs associated with the old cell. Measurements that can be used for mobility management during and or after reconfiguration of the common PCI Cell ID are also discussed above. One or more transmission nodes and or the O M module can reconfigure one or more common PCIs Cell IDs into a larger number of PCIs Cell IDs.

However the number of new PCIs Cell IDs has been increased from three to six and . Increased numbers of PCIs Cell IDs can be accomplished by spatial multiplexing methods such as beam forming. The increased number of PCIs Cell IDs can also lead to increased spectral frequency and capacity through increased use of different portions of the spectrum as indicated in by the alternating shading pattern. In some examples additional advanced techniques such as COMP can be used.

Examples can also be depicted as methods. Such methods can be depicted with functional blocks. These functional blocks can depict steps or operations consistent with examples of such methods. Depending on the example such steps or operations can be implemented but need not necessarily be implemented in computer readable program code stored on a non transitory computer usable medium. Although functional blocks can be depicted in order the order in which they are depicted can in many instances be changed. Indeed certain functional blocks can be performed simultaneously. Throughout this application the order in which the functional blocks are depicted therefore does not necessarily indicate a chronological order in which the corresponding steps or operations are necessarily performed. Several additional methods not depicted can also be consistent with additional examples.

The method can further comprise sending a CSI RS to a plurality of User Equipments UEs within the selected coverage area for a yet to be configured common Cell ID. A set of measurements from the plurality of UEs based on the CSI RS can then be received. The set of measurements can be used to select the reduced set of transmission cells and to determine that the reduced set of transmission cells will maintain coverage for the selected coverage area after being configured with the common Cell ID.

In certain examples the method can first comprise compiling the set of transmission cells by including adjacent transmission cells with a light traffic load in the set of transmission cells. Depending on the example the load information is acquired from one of at least one of an S1 transport network layer load and at least one Relative Narrowband Transmission Power RNTP message. The RNTP message can be communicated via an X2 connection between transmission cells. Some examples can comprise adjusting antenna tilting to optimize coverage for a resultant coverage scenario arising after reconfiguring the remaining set of transmission cells into the SFN with the common Cell ID.

Examples can also further comprise determining that one or more additional transmission cells would improve handling of an increased traffic load within the selected coverage area. The determination can be made based on the load information. The improved handling can be achieved by increasing spectral efficiency for the increased traffic load. Such examples can also comprise reconfiguring the one or more additional transmission cells with at least one new Cell ID. A handover can be performed for one or more UEs to the at least one additional transmission cell.

Examples in which a determination is made that one or more additional transmission cells would improve handling can further comprise requesting at least one CSI RS based measurement to determine the one or more additional transmission cells where a CSI RS for the at least one CSI RS based measurement carries information that can be correlated to a yet to be configured Cell ID. Such examples can also further comprise requesting at least one CSI RS based measurement after the at least one additional transmission cell has been reconfigured with one or more new Cell IDs. The additional request can be made to provide channel information for the one or more Cell IDs.

The selection module can be configured to select for a set of transmission cells one of a high mobility Cell ID configuration and a high load capacity Cell ID configuration. The configuration module can be in communication with the selection module. The configuration module can be configured to configure the set of transmission cells to operate in the high mobility Cell ID configuration. The high mobility Cell ID configuration can comprise an SFN with a common Cell ID to reduce mobility overhead. Additionally the configuration module can configure the set of transmission cells to operate in the high load capacity configuration. The high load capacity configuration can have multiple transmission cells with different cell IDs to allow increased spectral efficiency for an increased load.

Certain examples can further comprise a speed measurement module which can be in communication with the selection module . The speed measurement module can be configured to perform at least one speed measurement for a set of UEs within the selected coverage area for the set of transmission cells. The speed measurement module can also be configured to communicate the at least one speed measurement to the selection module. In some examples the selection module can use one or more speed measurements and or load information to select for the set of transmission cells one of the high mobility Cell ID configuration and the high load capacity Cell ID configuration.

In some of such examples the selection module can select for the set of transmission cells one of the high mobility Cell ID configuration and the high load capacity Cell ID configuration. The selection can based on a combined value relative to a configuration threshold. The combined value can include weighted speed values and weighted load values. In such examples higher weighted speed values can push the combined value toward values relative to the configuration threshold indicative of the high mobility Cell ID configuration. Additionally higher weighted load values can push the combined value toward values relative to the configuration threshold indicative of the high load capacity Cell ID configuration.

In certain examples the selected coverage area for the set of transmission cells can span a length of a thoroughfare. The thoroughfare can be designated for vehicular traffic and or railway traffic. In some examples the selection module can use time of day information day of the week information holiday information and or event information to select one of the high mobility Cell ID configuration and the high load capacity Cell ID configuration.

Some examples can also comprise a formation module . The formation module can be configured to receive load information and or one or more speed measurements from multiple transmission cells. Additionally the formation module can be configured to compile the set of transmission cells by including a given transmission cell in the set of transmission cells where the given transmission cell is adjacent to a transmission cell already included in the set of transmission cells. Such transmission cells can be included where the load information and or one or more speed measurements has a corresponding set of values within a value range predefined for the set of transmission cells.

Certain examples can also comprise a measurement module . The measurement module can be configured to send a set of CSI RSs for yet to be configured Cell IDs to a plurality of UEs within a selected coverage area of the set of transmission cells. Furthermore the measurement module can receive a set of measurements from the plurality of UEs based on the set of CSI RSs. The set of measurements can be used to assist in handover of the plurality of UEs where the selection module changes a selection from a high mobility Cell ID configuration to a high load capacity Cell ID configuration.

Performing the reconfiguration action in some examples can further comprise receiving measurements from the set of UEs. Additionally such examples can comprise estimating a potential coverage area based on the set of measurements for a potential new SFN with a common Cell ID. In such examples at least a subset of the set of transmission cells can be designated for the potential new SFN.

For certain examples performing the reconfiguration action can further comprise receiving measurements from the set of UEs. Additionally this step can comprise determining based on the measurements at least one target transmission cell within the set of transmission cells for at least one new Cell ID. In some examples embedding the CSI RS with the identification information can further comprise assigning an identification value to the yet to be configured Cell ID.

Embedding the CSI RS with the identification information can also comprise replacing a Cell ID value with the identification value to generate a pseudo random sequence for the CSI RS that can identify the yet to be configured Cell ID. In such examples the identification information can be embedded in an initializing portion of the CSI RS. Additionally providing a set of UEs with identification information can further comprise broadcasting the identification information via RRC broadcasting to a geographic area covered by the yet to be configured Cell ID.

In certain exemplary examples the reconfiguration message can comprise an indication for the plurality of UEs to stop transmission a value of the new Cell ID and or a corresponding time when the new Cell ID will be operational. The reconfiguration message can be configured to enable the plurality of UEs receiving the reconfiguration message to stop receiving and transmitting data. Receiving and transmitting data can be stopped by the reconfiguration message until a time when the new Cell ID is operational and it is possible for the plurality of UEs to reconnect to the set of transmission cells with the new Cell ID.

In some examples the reconfiguration message can comprise a common handover command message sent to the plurality of UEs via multicast signaling. The common handover command can provide parameters that can be used to perform a handover for the plurality of UEs to the reconfigured set of transmission cells with the new Cell ID. In some examples the common handover command message can comprise one or more C RNTIs and one or more target transmission cell security algorithm identifiers. The common handover command message can also comprise a dedicated RACH and or target eNodeB system information. In certain examples the method can further comprise sending a different handover command to specify a handover delay for the plurality of UEs associated with the set of transmission cells.

Certain examples can further comprise providing a notification message to at least one neighbor transmission cell adjacent to a reconfigured transmission cell within the set of transmission cells. The notification message can include an original Cell ID a reconfigured Cell ID and or information about when the reconfigured Cell ID will be operable for the reconfigured transmission cell. Also in some examples the reconfiguration message can indicate that a time when the common Cell ID will be operational is in a next System Information Block SIB modification period.

Another example provides functionality of a device operable to balance mobility overhead and load requirements on a wireless communication system as shown in the flowchart in . The device can reside on at least one of an evolved Node B eNodeB and an Operation Maintenance O M module located within an Evolved Packet Core EPC . The device can include a selection module configured to select for a set of transmission cells one of a high mobility Cell IDentification Cell ID configuration and a high load capacity Cell ID configuration as in block . The device can include a configuration module configured to configure the set of transmission cells to operate in the high mobility Cell ID configuration the high mobility Cell ID configuration comprising a Single Frequency Network SFN with a common Cell ID to reduce mobility overhead as in block . In addition the configuration module in the device can be configured to configure the set of transmission cells to operate in the high load capacity configuration the high load capacity configuration having multiple transmission cells with different cell IDs to allow increased spectral efficiency for an increased load as in block .

Another example provides functionality of an evolved node B eNB operable to connect user equipments UEs to a set of transmission cells to be reconfigured with a new Cell IDentification Cell ID as shown in the flowchart in . The eNB can be configured to select a set of transmission cells to reconfigure to share a new Cell ID as in block . In addition the eNB can be configured to send a reconfiguration message to a plurality of UEs associated with the set of transmission cells to reduce overhead used by the plurality of UEs to connect to the set of transmission cells when the set of transmissions cells are reconfigured with the new Cell ID the reconfiguration message carrying information to allow the plurality of UEs to connect to the set of transmission cells with the new Cell ID by one of a process without a handover procedure and a process of a group handover procedure as in block .

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may be implemented in programmable hardware such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives Solid State Drives SSD flash RAM or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one example or an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one example of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one example or in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same example.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member based on their presentation in a common group without contrary indications. In addition various examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such examples examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more examples. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of examples of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims.

