---

title: Hover card
abstract: A method, apparatus, system, and computer program product display information about selected content in a social network. Multiple icons representative of content are displayed. Via input from a user, an item of the content is selected by selecting one of the multiple icons. In response to the selecting, a tooltip is displayed. The tooltip includes relevant information about the selected item and affinity data that provides a probability of similar interests between the user and the selected item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438646&OS=09438646&RS=09438646
owner: MYSPACE, LLC
number: 09438646
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130924
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e of the following commonly assigned U.S. provisional patent application s which is are incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 705 131 filed on Sep. 24 2012 entitled Social Media and Information Discovery Graphical User Interface by Benjamin Johnston Jason J. A. Knapp Ali Tahmasbi Joshua Couch Fabrizio Blanco Timothy Charles Vanderhook Christopher J. Vanderhook and Michael S. Andler 

This application is related to the following commonly assigned patent application s which is are incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 035 655 filed on Sep. 24 2013 entitled System and Method for Connecting Users to Other Users and Objects in a Social Network by Michael Scott Andler which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 705 131 filed on Sep. 24 2012 entitled Social Media and Information Discovery Graphical User Interface by Benjamin Johnston Jason J. A. Knapp Ali Tahmasbi Joshua Couch Fabrizio Blanco Timothy Charles Vanderhook Christopher J. Vanderhook and Michael S. Andler 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 052 484 filed on Sep. 24 2013 entitled Affinity Tag Inheritance by Michael Scott Andler James Andrew Beaupre Eric Juhyun Kim Thomas Barraud Werz III and Kyle Kincaid which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 705 131 filed on Sep. 24 2012 entitled Social Media and Information Discovery Graphical User Interface by Benjamin Johnston Jason J. A. Knapp Ali Tahmasbi Joshua Couch Fabrizio Blanco Timothy Charles Vanderhook Christopher J. Vanderhook and Michael S. Andler 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 035 799 filed on Sep. 24 2013 entitled Determining Distinguishing and Visualizing Users Engagement with Resources on a Social Network by Michael Scott Andler Thomas Barraud Werz III Eric Juhyun Kim James Andrew Beaupre and Timothy Charles Vanderhook which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 705 131 filed on Sep. 24 2012 entitled Social Media and Information Discovery Graphical User Interface by Benjamin Johnston Jason J. A. Knapp Ali Tahmasbi Joshua Couch Fabrizio Blanco Timothy Charles Vanderhook Christopher J. Vanderhook and Michael S. Andler 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 858 857 filed on Apr. 8 2013 entitled System and Method for Presenting and Managing Social Media by Michael Scott Andler James Andrew Beaupre Eric Juhyun Kim and Thomas Barraud Werz III which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 621 057 filed on Apr. 6 2012 entitled System and Method for Presenting and Managing Social Media by Mike Andler James Andrew Beaupre Eric Juhyun Kim and Thomas Barraud Werz III 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 858 720 filed on Apr. 8 2013 by Michael Scott Andler James A. Beaupre Eric J. Kim and Thomas B. Werz III entitled System and Method for Determining User or Resource Influence within a Pre Defined Context which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 621 051 filed on Apr. 6 2012 by Mike Andler James Andrew Beaupre Eric Juhyun Kim and Thomas Barraud Werz III entitled System and Method for Determining User or Resource Influence within a Pre Defined Context and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 858 727 filed on Apr. 8 2013 by Michael Scott Andler James A. Beaupre Eric J. Kim and Thomas B. Werz III entitled System and Method for Recommending Content which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 621 049 filed on Apr. 6 2012 by Mike Andler James Andrew Beaupre Eric Juhyun Kim and Thomas Barraud Werz III entitled System and Method for Recommending Content .

This invention relates generally to social networks and in particular to a method apparatus and article of manufacture for displaying relevant information to a user in a social network based on user interaction on the social network.

Prior art mechanisms provide limited mechanisms for discovering new content and users. For example existing social network applications may attempt to predict potential users that a logged in user knows and provide a listing of such potential users for the logged in user to add as friends . However the prior art fails to provide a mechanism that determines a user s interests affinities based on the user s actions followed by a presentation of both potential users resources content and or a user s computed affinity with such a potential user resource content. To better understand the problems of the prior art a description of prior art terminology may be useful.

Prior art systems provide an overcrowded social network behavior terminology with respect to a user expressing an interest in other users and content. Such terminology includes friending following fanning liking checking in 1 ing etc. Each of these concepts allows a user to uni directionally indicate an interest in another user object content. As an example a friend within the Facebook social network is someone that a user may connect and share with within the social network. In other words to express an interest in another user within the Facebook social network a user may be required to search for and add that user as a friend . The added user must then accept that user as a friend to establish the friend relationship. Once friended depending on the privacy security settings established by the users friends may have access to another friend s activity stream updates pictures personal information etc.

In addition to friending to express an interest or to provide positive feedback and connect with things a user cares about the user may like a web page another user s post etc. For example if a user desires to indicate an interest in a concert venue the user must search for and find a social network page corresponding to that venue and like that page. Once the user likes the page the user may have access to view that page s activity stream.

Another term used in the prior art is follow which provides a mechanism for a user to see public updates from the people a user is interested in. A user follows another user and will receive updates from the followed user in his her own user s news feed. However confusingly if a user is interested in keeping up with a Page e.g. businesses organizations bands etc. the user utilizes may be required to like the page.

 Fanning is utilized in a similar manner to liking a page and refers to a user become a fan of their favorite page.

 Checking in refers to the concept where a user may check in e.g. using their mobile device phone at different places a user visits e.g. bars markets concert venues etc. . In other words the user identifies a location that the user has visited using a check in feature of a social network e.g. on the Foursquare social network .

 1 ing refers to a method within the Google social network for how a user shows their appreciation for a post object. For example a user may 1 a post within the Google social network by clicking a 1 link icon. Thereafter the creator of the post and the people the post was shared with can see the user s 1 . Users can also 1 something on a website which adds to the total number of 1 s shown in a count for that item.

What is lacking from each of the above prior techniques is the ability to actually discover new users and content based on accurate and educated recommendations while allowing the user the opportunity to review how why such new users content are recommended. Instead the prior art merely indicates that another user has liked such a page or how many mutual friends you have with a particular user. In other words while prior art systems may recommend another user as a friend or provide a targeted advertisement or recommend a web page all such recommendations are merely based on the present user s activities e.g. what the user has liked the user s current profile etc. and activities of friends of the present user. Further such recommendations do not provide the ability for a user to view a detailed basis for such a recommendation.

In view of the above one may note that a variety of methods are used across different social networks to indicate express an interest in and to visualize their affinity to other users objects within a social network. The number of different methods used can be confusing and repetitive and fails to provide a simple and easy to use and understand method display for expressing an interest and visualizing a user s affinity.

Embodiments of the invention provide a hover card tooltip that is displayed whenever a user hovers over any content within an activity stream or elsewhere on a social network. The hover card displays relevant information about the item content selected a connection status with the content recommendations based on such content and an affinity score that is based on a relationship between the user and the item content.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the invention include systems and methods for presenting and managing connections between users objects on a social network.

In one embodiment the computer operates by the general purpose processor A performing instructions defined by the computer program under control of an operating system . The computer program and or the operating system may be stored in the memory and may interface with the user and or other devices to accept input and commands and based on such input and commands and the instructions defined by the computer program and operating system to provide output and results.

Output results may be presented on the display or provided to another device for presentation or further processing or action. In one embodiment the display comprises a liquid crystal display LCD having a plurality of separately addressable liquid crystals. Alternatively the display may comprise a light emitting diode LED display having clusters of red green and blue diodes driven together to form full color pixels. Each liquid crystal or pixel of the display changes to an opaque or translucent state to form a part of the image on the display in response to the data or information generated by the processor from the application of the instructions of the computer program and or operating system to the input and commands. The image may be provided through a graphical user interface GUI module . Although the GUI module is depicted as a separate module the instructions performing the GUI functions can be resident or distributed in the operating system the computer program or implemented with special purpose memory and processors.

In one or more embodiments the display is integrated with into the computer and comprises a multi touch device having a touch sensing surface e.g. track pod or touch screen with the ability to recognize the presence of two or more points of contact with the surface. Examples of multi touch devices include mobile devices e.g. iPhone Nexus S Droid devices etc. tablet computers e.g. iPad HP Touchpad portable handheld game music video player console devices e.g. iPod Touch MP3 players Nintendo 3DS PlayStation Portable etc. touch tables and walls e.g. where an image is projected through acrylic and or glass and the image is then backlit with LEDs .

Some or all of the operations performed by the computer according to the computer program instructions may be implemented in a special purpose processor B. In this embodiment the some or all of the computer program instructions may be implemented via firmware instructions stored in a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM or flash memory within the special purpose processor B or in memory . The special purpose processor B may also be hardwired through circuit design to perform some or all of the operations to implement the present invention. Further the special purpose processor B may be a hybrid processor which includes dedicated circuitry for performing a subset of functions and other circuits for performing more general functions such as responding to computer program instructions. In one embodiment the special purpose processor B is an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computer may also implement a compiler that allows an application or computer program written in a programming language such as COBOL Pascal C FORTRAN or other language to be translated into processor readable code. Alternatively the compiler may be an interpreter that executes instructions source code directly translates source code into an intermediate representation that is executed or that executes stored precompiled code. Such source code may be written in a variety of programming languages such as Java Perl Basic etc. After completion the application or computer program accesses and manipulates data accepted from I O devices and stored in the memory of the computer using the relationships and logic that were generated using the compiler .

The computer also optionally comprises an external communication device such as a modem satellite link Ethernet card or other device for accepting input from and providing output to other computers .

In one embodiment instructions implementing the operating system the computer program and the compiler are tangibly embodied in a non transient computer readable medium e.g. data storage device which could include one or more fixed or removable data storage devices such as a zip drive floppy disc drive hard drive CD ROM drive tape drive etc. Further the operating system and the computer program are comprised of computer program instructions which when accessed read and executed by the computer cause the computer to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention or to load the program of instructions into a memory thus creating a special purpose data structure causing the computer to operate as a specially programmed computer executing the method steps described herein. Computer program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture program storage device and computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with the computer .

A network such as the Internet connects clients to server computers . Network may utilize ethernet coaxial cable wireless communications radio frequency RF etc. to connect and provide the communication between clients and servers . Clients may execute a client application or web browser and communicate with server computers executing web servers . Such a web browser is typically a program such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX OPERA APPLE SAFARI GOOGLE CHROMET etc. Further the software executing on clients may be downloaded from server computer to client computers and installed as a plug in or ACTIVEX control of a web browser. Accordingly clients may utilize ACTIVEX components component object model COM or distributed COM DCOM components to provide a user interface on a display of client . The web server is typically a program such as MICROSOFT S INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER .

Web server may host an Active Server Page ASP or Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI application which may be executing scripts. The scripts invoke objects that execute business logic referred to as business objects . The business objects then manipulate data in database through a database management system DBMS . Alternatively database may be part of or connected directly to client instead of communicating obtaining the information from database across network . When a developer encapsulates the business functionality into objects the system may be referred to as a component object model COM system. Accordingly the scripts executing on web server and or application invoke COM objects that implement the business logic. Further server may utilize MICROSOFT S Transaction Server MTS to access required data stored in database via an interface such as ADO Active Data Objects OLE DB Object Linking and Embedding DataBase or ODBC Open DataBase Connectivity .

Generally these components all comprise logic and or data that is embodied in or retrievable from device medium signal or carrier e.g. a data storage device a data communications device a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via a network or via another data communications device etc. Moreover this logic and or data when read executed and or interpreted results in the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention being performed.

Although the terms user computer client computer and or server computer are referred to herein it is understood that such computers and may be interchangeable and may further include thin client devices with limited or full processing capabilities portable devices such as cell phones notebook computers pocket computers multi touch devices and or any other devices with suitable processing communication and input output capability.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with computers and .

Embodiments of the invention are implemented as a software application on a client or server computer . Further as described above the client or server computer may comprise a thin client device or a portable device that has a multi touch based display i.e. a tablet device a mobile phone a gaming system an IP internet protocol enabled television a television set top box or other internet enabled device running on various platforms and operating systems. Users may communicate and interact with the software application using a mobile device client computer portable device etc.

On the server side a social network site e.g. Myspace Facebook LinkedIn Friendster Twitter Foursquare Pinterest Instagram etc. may provide an interactive experience to a variety of users that access such a social network site . Users may access social network site via a web browser or via an app on the user s device.

Users accessing a social network site may be members of site or may access information without being members. In this regard access to a site or certain areas of site may be limited to users that are members and are logged in to such a site . Such a logon may be automatic e.g. preconfigured using cookies on a web browser or by storing a username password on the user s device or in the app on the user s device .

Either as part of the social network site or executing separately from the social network site various applications may be used to provide additional features to the social network site . It may be noted that the description is not limited to the applications depicted in and additional applications may be used to provide the features described herein. Further such applications may be directly integrated with e.g. are an integral part of social network site may interact with each other and or may interact directly with the user .

Apps may provide a variety of functionality ranging from games to facial recognition to media content discovery etc. For example one app may consist of a recommendation engine that is configured to recommend content events etc. to a user e.g. based on content gathered and or stored by social network site . DBMS manages all of the data that may be stored in database . Media content player enables the ability to view media content uploaded by users or uploaded by a host of site . Websites website apps are websites other than the social network site e.g. Twitter search engines map based interactions etc. that may use information from social network site or provide additional information based on the social network information.

The platform and processing capabilities that provide an integrated graphical user interface that displays connectivity status and affinity between users objects and may be performed by client server and or a combination of client and or server within a social network.

As used herein a social network or social network site refers to a platform or service e.g. website web service application etc. that enables users to build social relations based on shared interests activities backgrounds and or real life connections. A social network provides a representation of each user e.g. a profile his her social links and a variety of additional services. As described above many social networks sites are web based and provide means for users to interact over a network e.g. the Internet e mail and instant messaging . Social networking sites allow users to share ideas pictures posts activities events and interests with people in their network. Further social networking sites provide an electronic computer implemented means representation of a social structure made up of a set of social actors e.g. individuals or organizations and a set of connections between such actors. In addition to providing the ability for users to connect to one another a social network may also enable users to connect with groups e.g. music groups objects locations etc. However embodiments of the invention are not intended to be limited to the social networks described above but intend to cover any type of social network where users can connect communicate with one another and objects via electronic means.

Embodiments of the invention perform an affinity analysis that is a data analysis and data mining technique that discovers co occurrence relationships among activities performed by specific users or groups of users and their interaction with site objects. Such an affinity analysis may be based on tag inheritance which is described in further detail below. The scoring is surfaced provided displayed to the user using a graphical user interface referred to as the hover card or H card and or within a discover section of a social network site .

The discover section of a social network site provides an area that allows the user to explore new content based on curated recommendations. For example a discover section may provide sophisticated charts of popular music videos people personalized recommendations new releases editorial content interesting users etc. In other words the discover section provides users with the ability to discover new content and or users in an efficient and easy to use manner. Further a recommendations section within a discovery section area of a social network is a personalized offering that takes into account all of the people music and content to which a user has connected in order to generate targeted recommendations for new music videos users mixes etc. e.g. based on tags and tag inheritance as described below . By enabling users to see what s happening around them the discover section of a social network allows users to filter content and users by genre and utilize prior activities of the user e.g. listening connection history as defined in the related applications cross referenced and incorporated by reference above a user s identity may be built modified and enhanced over time.

To display information relevant to a particular object content within a social network site a user may hover e.g. using a mouse tablet cursor control device over a particular piece of content within a user s activity news stream. Such an activity news stream is a list of recent activities performed by an individual and or activities of other users content that the present user has opted to connect with . In other words an activity news stream provides updates news etc. for content and other users that the present user has opted to connect with follow friend etc.

When a user hovers over any content within the user s activity stream a tooltip or information box may appear that is referred to herein as the hover card or H card. illustrates the display of an H card in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. As illustrated the H card displays relevant information about the item selected. For content it will display the name of the content the user s connection status with the content e.g. see the related application entitled System and Method for Connecting Users to Other Users and Objects in a Social Network cross referenced above and incorporated by reference herein release date similar artists etc. For mixes the H card will display the artists featured within the mix. For other users the H card includes that user s name mutual connections profile song and other user information. Note that a user s profile song may be displayed with the user wherever information of that user is displayed.

In addition the H card may display recommendations to objects people entities for the user. For example if the user hovers over a song similar songs may be displayed on the H card e.g. as a recommendation to the user of a particular song group genre etc. .

In addition to the above embodiments of the invention may surface affinity data within the H card thereby providing displaying an affinity score that visualizes the probability of similar interests based on aggregated data. Technically affinity analysis is a data analysis and data mining technique that discovers concurrent relationships among activities performed by specific users or groups. In other words affinity scores show how similar a logged in user s interests are compared to a specific user artist or piece of content. Using the affinity score discovery is improved by making it easier for a user to discover thinks the user actually likes. Further the affinity score may be used to sort information and or to discover new people objects that share common affinities.

In the user has hovered over the connection icon associated with Mike Andler . The H card displays information about Mike Andler indicates there are 11 mutual connections between the logged in user and Mike Andler and an affinity score of 81 . The Venn diagram illustrating the affinity score shows circles that are significantly overlapped thereby reflecting the 81 affinity score that is displayed along with the Venn diagram.

In the logged in user is viewing Mike Andler s stream and has hovered over a connect icon associated with the icon representing the video CRWN Macklemore . . . The affinity score indicates an affinity of 42 and the circles of the Venn diagram overlap in an amount reflective of 42 .

The affinity computation may be defined as an average a mean or any other type of computation including a computation that weights different attributes depending on the importance to the user . Embodiments of the invention are not intended to be limited to any particular method for computing calculating the affinity value.

Further to the above embodiments of the invention may base an affinity computation based on two different types of affinities behavioral and categorical. Behavioral affinity refers to the concept of things an entity does. In other words behavioral affinity refers to the concept of affinity values based on the behavior or action of a user with respect to a particular resource type of resource. As an example suppose there is no known information about two users except that both users have played the same single song. Such users would have a strong affinity based on behavioral affinity i.e. they both played the same song . As another example behavioral affinity is based on a repeated performance of an action or particular type of action. For example if a user creates a large number of music mixes and or listens to a large number of songs that user may have a behavioral affinity to another user that also creates a large number of mixes. Similarly if a user views a large number photographs that user may have a behavioral affinity to another user that also views a large number of photographs. Further information relating to the category types of information involved in the action may also impact the behavioral affinity. Continuing with the above examples if the mixes created by the two users are both in the same genre of music e.g. rock music it may increase the affinity. However if the mixes are in different genres while the mix creation action itself may result in a positive affinity between the two users the difference in genres may reduce the affinity e.g. versus a resulting affinity from the same genre .

In contrast categorical affinity is based on information known about an entity e.g. demographic information such as gender age city state country marital status etc. personal information about a user e.g. sexual orientation movie preferences religion etc. attributes of an object entity e.g. color location etc. attributes of a business entity e.g. type of establishment such as restaurant retail etc. .

Embodiments of the invention may utilize the mechanism of tag inheritance described herein to identify both the behavioral and categorical affinity between two resources entities. In this regard when tags are exchanged between two entities as described herein the action catalyzing the tag exchange may be utilized as the basis to determine the behavioral affinity. Similarly resulting tags may provide for the categorical affinity. The description below of tag inheritance further details such a process.

In addition when determining the affinity between two entities resources different weights prioritization s may be applied to different tags categories of tags. For example a song may have a different categorization priority than that of an event or a person. Further determining the affinity between two songs is different from that of determining the affinity between two people. Accordingly based on the category of both resources being compared the tags may be weighted prioritized differently to compute an affinity value. In addition as described above a user may determine what attributes values are more important than others thereby resulting in a weighting of tags categories.

As an example if the affinity value is being computed for the relationship between a user and a song the genre tags associated with the user and the song are likely to be weighted heavily during the affinity computation. Similarly the residence location of the band and the residence of the user may not be accorded as much weight as the genre. In addition other factors may be utilized to compute the affinity e.g. whether the user s friends like the song and or the artist band that recorded the song and or the composer of the song etc. .

In view of the above tag inheritance and the process of tag inheritance may be used to identify the affinity between two entities. Such an affinity may be based on a combination of the tags e.g. similar genre tags such as two songs that both have a strong rock song affinity tags photographs e.g. a photograph of one car and a photograph of another car profile behavior etc. In this regard any and all factors behavioral and categorical may be utilized to determine the affinity value score between two entities. As an example even if two users have very dissimilar music tastes if both users actions indicate postings connections to outdoor related activities e.g. hiking backpacking swimming etc. an affinity between the two users may be established. Similarly if both users connect with different baseball teams but appear to both frequently attend professional baseball games an affinity between the users may be established. Thus in addition to the specific tags associated with each user the category type of tags the number and consistency of tags in such a category type and the behavior utilized to acquire such tags may be used to perform such a computation.

An affinity value may be computed and displayed between any two entities including a user user and user object entity. The affinity value may also be used as part of the computation to measure the influence of the user as set forth in the above identified cross referenced patent applications.

As described above the affinity between two entities e.g. a user and another user resource may be surfaced provided displayed via a graphical user interface of a social network site e.g. via an H card as described above .

The H card may not only display the affinity Venn diagram as described above but may also include an indication of a current connection status between the logged in user and the content. In addition the H card may also display the connections status between the item resource in question and other users content. To better understand such a connection status a description of the connect feature of embodiments of the invention is useful.

The connect feature provides the ability for a user to connect to any piece of content or any user . In this regard after logging in a user e.g. a registered user member of a social network may have the ability to connect to any of the following people artists songs videos photos albums mixes photos music etc. etc. Connections are one sided relationships meaning that if a first user connects to a second user the second user doesn t have to approve or connect back to the first user if they choose not to except if the user is private in which case they may have to approve a connection request . In this regard privacy settings of a logged in user may determine whether users can cannot connect to a logged in user. Such privacy settings may depend on whether a logged in user s profile is public or private. If a logged in user has a public profile any user can connect to the logged in user the logged in user will receive a notification each time a user connects to the logged in user. If a profile is private the logged in user will receive a notification each time a user initiates a connection with the logged in user and the logged in user will be prompted to approve or deny each request.

Accordingly notwithstanding the specific case of a private user once a first user has decided to connect to a second user even that one way connection allows the first user to see and comment on the second user s activities. If the second user chooses to connect back to the first user then the mutual connection will allow the second user to see and comment on the first user s activities as well.

In view of the above establishing a connection with other users or artists allows a logged in user to view the other user s artists latest activity. It may also expand a logged in user s social graph and enable the logged in user to explore shared connections both people and content. Similarly connecting to an object piece of content e.g. song photograph video album or mix adds the object content to the logged in user s personal library for easy access and also places the object content in the logged in user s stream making it visible to all of the logged in user s connections or the public depending on the logged in user s privacy settings. Connecting to content also improves a social network s ability to make recommendations for additional content the logged in user may enjoy.

Such a connection feature simplifies the concept of following friending liking or adding a user or piece of content unifying a user s association with any object users photos mixes albums songs videos etc. on the social network site. Further such a connection configuration provides a more accurate representation of relationships on the site e.g. a user may follow an artist but that artist doesn t need to follow the user back for the user to see their activity . Connecting to users and content helps a social network website collect more information on the user s interests which may be used in the calculation of an affinity as described in related applications and also helps a social network site deliver better recommendations to users members .

In view of the above while the connect feature provides the ability for a user to connect to other users objects a connections feature organizes everyone e.g. friends artists and everything e.g. songs images albums to which a user is connected. Connections may be accessed using a button within a social network website application e.g. within a contextual navigation menu and can be filtered by type e.g. the type of connection such as people user user songs user song albums user album videos user video photos user photo etc. e.g. using a drop down menu or other selection technique . In addition a Top 8 feature allows a social network user to select up to eight 8 personal connections to be highlighted by displaying them directly on the user s profile e.g. within a social network . Such a top 8 is determined by the user unlike a Top Fans feature which may be computed based on the level of interaction the user has with another user group object etc. . In addition a logged in user may view all content people to which the user has connected by visiting a library section found within a logged in user s homepage. Such content people in the library may be segmented by type.

As an alternative to the symbols of other graphical user interface elements may reflect the connection status of the invention. For example a chain with links of a chain closing indicating a connection and or different arrangements of broken and closed links may be utilized.

When a user holds a mouse cursor over a connect symbol information options that are context sensitive to that particular connection may be displayed e.g. in an H card or other dialog box display window . The information options may be displayed in a variety of manners. For example the information options may be displayed within a drop down menu with several options to engage with the connected object person outside of connecting. For example if the user hovers over a song the options may display options that are relevant to songs including the connection status an option to add the song to a playlist to play the song to create a radio mix with that song share the song e.g. on the user s stream or with a particular set of users report a song if its improperly tagged or has the wrong information make the song the user s profile song etc. Similarly if a user hovers over a connect icon associated with another user options may include connect and share which may share the user s profile over the current user s stream e.g. with the option to make a comment such as cool user profile .

In one or more embodiments the concept of sharing both internally and external broadcast to other sites services may be incorporated within the set of dialogs and behaviors of the connect feature control. For example upon connection to a resource the dialog may prompt the user whether he she d like this connection to be broadcasted to Facebook Youtube etc. depending on that user s connect privacy settings . In this regard broadcasting a connection is synonymous with sharing and will facilitate the viral spread of content in precisely the same manner. Additionally thumbs up and thumbs down activities may also be incorporated into the connect feature control. For example upon mouse over of the universal connect icon symbol a dialog may prompt the user with questions such as Connect to more content like this or Connect to less content like this . The response to this set of carefully worded questions may provide similar utility as thumbs up and thumbs down controls.

The basic premise of tag inheritance is that users and resources exchange affinities with one another by way of their interactions. The underlying assumption is that there is always a reason a user will interact with a resource song video etc. and ultimately this interaction indicates that there are things in common between them. In other words tag inheritance is an exemplary process of identifying altering affinities for resources and users in real time via the collection of stream data. This is accomplished through analyzing the behavior of users in a system.

By employing the system of tag inheritance affinities may be calculated to represent the weights of tags against corresponding resources in the system. Such an affinity calculation is described in further below.

A key exemplary concept of an inheritance methodology is that users and resources inherit affinities from one another as interactions occur. Further affinities are represented as tags. illustrates the logical flow for inheriting tags in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

At step a determination is made regarding whether one of the interacting entities is missing does not have relevant affinity tags. In this regard whether a tag is relevant is based on the interaction and type of entities. For example if a user is interacting with a song and a user s affinity tag indicates a preference for restaurants located in Boston such a tag would not be relevant to the interaction between the user and the song. However if the user is interacting with the song and a user s affinity tag is categorized as a genre tag and indicates a 30 affinity for country music such a tag would be relevant. Thus the relevancy of a tag is based on the type of entities that are interacting with each other and the categorization of the tag itself e.g. genre sports food people. etc. .

If one of the interacting entities does not have a relevant affinity tag such an entity inherits all of the tags from the entity with the tags at step . Example 1 illustrates the concept of steps 

In Example 1 Song 1 does not inherit any tags because User A has no tags for Song 1 to inherit . Example 2 also illustrates the concepts of steps 

In contrast if both interacting entities have relevant affinity tags both entities inherit tags of the other entity. Further such an inheritance may affect the existing tags of the entity. Accordingly the how and what tags are inherited may be computed at step . Such a computation may be performed based on a number of methodologies.

Thus both User A and Song 2 inherit tags from each other and the existing tags are modified based on such an inheritance. It may further be noted that the type of interaction may also affect whether tags are inherited and the methodology used to compute the inheritance. For example if a user plays a song such a play interaction may partially affect the user s affinity tags. In contrast if a user connect with or likes a song such an interaction may have a greater impact on the user s affinity tags. A similar affect may result if a user merely watches a comedian s uploaded video versus the user connecting following friending or liking the comedian or the comedian s video.

The amount one resource inherits from another may be determined by the strength of the tag which is the percentage. That percentage may be converted to a raw score to be used in the calculation of the new percentages for each respective resource. Example 4 illustrates the conversion and use of raw scores in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention 

Accordingly to compute the affinity values the total raw score value is incremented and the remaining raw score for each tag is divided by the new total raw score. Further this new total raw score and adjusted values may be maintained as part of the tags associated with the user entity. Thus following example 4 if User A interacts with another song Song 2 User A s initial raw score would be 2.0 and then combined with the total raw score of Song 2.

Alternatively the raw score values may first be normalized prior to combining. In this regard the values of the entity being updated would be normalized by its total raw score while the entity it is interacting with would be normalized to a value of 1.0. As an example when combining computing the affinities of User A with Song 2 User A s initial raw score would be 2.0 and it s affinity values would be normalized but the raw score of Song 2 would first be normalized to 1.0 and then combined. Example 5 illustrates such a scenario 

As illustrated by Example 5 as a user plays more songs and develops a set of affinity tags subsequent song plays would not have as great of an impact on the user s affinity tags.

While the above reflects one method for combining computing affinity tags embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular method but instead are directed towards the concept of tags being inherited based on interactions between a user and another user entity.

In alternative exemplary embodiments a resource can only pass on a tag to another resource if it has inheritance occurrence count of X. That X is a configured value and the purpose of this logic is to minimize the exacerbation of user choices that are not representative or their preferences. The amount inherited per tag may decay proportionately in percentage from the inheritance distance level of the originally seeded tag. In addition a user may only pass on its tags to a resource once every X interval. Such a configuration prevents the possibility of a user passing on its tags multiple times which results in the possible scenario of the resource having strong improper characterizations.

The above examples use genre as the tag type but the system is designed to handle any number of Tag Types. For example Locations Age Gender and User Entered Free Text tags e.g. Hash tags among others. Exemplary uses for this include but are not limited to song recommendations e.g. in Radio Mode and event recommendations.

In addition to the above the z score which is generated from the normal distribution graph comprised of the scores of a specific tag across the entire population may be used to order applicable tags when calculating affinity between two resources.

Based on the above description tag inheritance may be utilized in a variety of different scenarios. As an example tag inheritance may be used to generate a similarity score between two objects e.g. user to user user to content and or content to content . In addition tag inheritance may be used to recommend resources to users e.g. songs videos pictures etc. . Further tag inheritance may be used to provide user to user recommendations.

To provide recommendations utilizing tag inheritance a variety of different methodologies may be utilized. As an example a list of candidate resources may be generated by a method of matching tag patterns from an inputted set of tags to an entire tag inheritance repository referred to as Tag Patterns . Alternatively a more granular ranking and sorting can be performed by comparing the inputted tags against all of the tags of the candidate resources to generate a similarity score.

In view of the above the general concept of tag inheritance is that two entities e.g. a user and another user resource object interact with each other and such an interaction results in the exchanging of tags associated with each entity. Different methodologies may be used to weigh how much one entity will inherit a tag from another entity based on the overall set of tags that an entity has. Accordingly if a song already has fifty 50 different genre tags playing the song may have a small effect. Similarly if the song has a large amount of rock influence already applied and the user has a very strong rock affiliation then it may further weight the rock affiliation of the song and the user .

At step multiple icons representative of content e.g. multiple users songs videos mixes etc. are displayed via the social network.

At step an item of the content is selected via input from a user. Such an item is selected by selecting one of the multiple icons e.g. by hovering over one of the icons with a cursor without clicking 

At step in response to the selecting a tooltip is displayed. The tooltip includes relevant information about the selected item and affinity data. The affinity data defines identifies a probability of similar interests between the user and the selected item. Further the affinity data may be a computed numeric value percentage and or a Venn diagram where a percentage of overlap of overlapping circles of the Venn diagram represents a computed affinity between the user and the selected item . As illustrated in the figures the computed numeric value percentage may be overlaid as text on top of transparently with the Venn diagram e.g. see . As described above the affinity may be computed defined as an average mean or any other type of computation. Further the affinity may consist of both a behavioral affinity and a categorical affinity.

The tooltip may also include a connection status between the user and the selected item. Such a connection status reflects both one way connections between the user to and from the selected item. Further the tooltip may include recommendations computed for the user for additional content similar to the selected item on the social network.

Based on the affinity data displayed in the h card tooltip embodiments of the invention enable the user to view and determine how similar the user s interests are with a specific user artist or piece item of content. Accordingly before the user connects with or associates with such a user artist piece of content the user can view a computed likelihood of whether such a user artist piece of content will be something the user actually likes.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention. For example any type of computer such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer or computer configuration such as a timesharing mainframe local area network or standalone personal computer could be used with the present invention.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

