---

title: Thrombin inhibitors
abstract: 


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09133147&OS=09133147&RS=09133147
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09133147
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130322
---
Thrombin is a serine protease present in blood plasma in the form of a precursor prothrombin. Thrombin plays a central role in the mechanism of blood coagulation by converting the solution plasma protein fibrinogen into insoluble fibrin.

Edwards et al. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1992 vol. 114 pp. 1854 63 describes peptidyl ketobenzoxazoles which are reversible inhibitors of the serine proteases human leukocyte elastase and porcine pancreatic elastase. European Publication 363 284 describes analogs of peptidase substrates in which the nitrogen atom of the scissile amide group of the substrate peptide has been replaced by hydrogen or a substituted carbonyl moiety. Australian Publication 86245677 also describes peptidase inhibitors having an activated electrophilic ketone moiety such as fluoromethylene ketone or keto carboxyl derivatives. R. J. Brown et al. J. Med. Chem. Vol. 37 pages 1259 1261 1994 describes orally active non peptidic inhibitors of human leukocyte elastase which contain trifluoromethylketone and pyridinone moieties. H. Mack et al. J. Enzyme Inhibition Vol. 9 pages 73 86 1995 describes rigid amidino phenylalanine thrombin inhibitors which contain a pyridinone moiety as a central core structure.

The invention includes compounds for inhibiting loss of blood platelets inhibiting formation of blood platelet aggregates inhibiting formation of fibrin inhibiting thrombus formation and inhibiting embolus formation in a mammal comprising a compound of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These compounds may optionally include anticoagulants antiplatelet agents and thrombolytic agents. The compounds can be added to blood blood products or mammalian organs in order to effect the desired inhibitions.

The invention also includes a compound for preventing or treating unstable angina refractory angina myocardial infarction transient ischemic attacks atrial fibrillation thrombotic stroke embolic stroke deep vein thrombosis disseminated intravascular coagulation ocular build up of fibrin and reocclusion or restenosis of recanalized vessels in a mammal comprising a compound of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These compounds may optionally include anticoagulants antiplatelet agents and thrombolytic agents.

The invention also includes a method for reducing the thrombogenicity of a surface in a mammal by attaching to the surface either covalently or noncovalently a compound of the invention.

Compounds of the invention are useful as thrombin inhibitors and have therapeutic value in for example preventing coronary artery disease. The invention includes compounds of formula I 

In one embodiment of the invention the compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof have the structure of formula Ia 

In another embodiment of the invention Ris tetrazole or CHNH. In a class of this embodiment Ris CHNH.

In another embodiment of the invention the compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof have the structure of formula Ib 

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R configuration or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula. Similarly when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence individual enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of a compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates including hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates of such compounds and solvated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate adipate alginate aspirate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate cyclopentane propionate diethylacetic digluconate dihydrochloride dodecylsulfanate edetate edisylate estolate esylate ethanesulfonate formic fumarate gluceptate glucoheptanoate gluconate glutamate glycerophosphate glycollylarsanilate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate hydroxynaphthoate iodide isonicotinic isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate 2 naphthalenesulfonate napsylate nicotinate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate pectinate persulfate phosphate diphosphate pimelic phenylpropionic polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide trifluoroacetate undeconate valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. Also included are the basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with such agents as lower alkyl halides such as methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chloride bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides such as decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides aralkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations.

If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically acceptable salts.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

When any variable occurs more than one time in any constituent or in formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

Except where noted the term alkyl refers to both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms Me is methyl Et is ethyl Pr is propyl Bu is butyl unsubstituted or substituted with Calkyl or halogen.

Except where noted the term Ccycloalkyl refers to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl and the like unsubstituted or substituted with Calkyl or halogen.

Except where noted the term aryl refers to a stable 6 to 10 membered mono or bicyclic ring system such as phenyl or naphthyl. The aryl ring can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of Calkyl hydroxyl alkoxy halogen or amino.

Except where noted the term heterocycle or heterocyclic ring refers to a stable 5 to 7 membered mono or bicyclic or stable 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring system unsubstituted or substituted with Calkyl or halogen any ring of which may be saturated or unsaturated and which consists of carbon atoms and from one to four heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N O and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized and including any bicyclic group in which any of the above defined heterocyclic rings is fused to a benzene ring. Especially useful are rings containing one oxygen or sulfur one to four nitrogen atoms or one oxygen or sulfur combined with one or two nitrogen atoms. The heterocyclic ring may be attached at any heteroatom or carbon atom which results in the creation of a stable structure. Examples of such heterocyclic groups include piperidinyl piperazinyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolodinyl 2 oxoazepinyl azepinyl pyrrolyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyridyl pyridyl N oxide pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl thiazolyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolyl quinuclidinyl isothiazolidinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl thiadiazoyl benzopyranyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydropyranyl tetrazole thienyl benzothienyl thiamorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl sulfoxide thiamorpholinyl sulfone and oxadiazolyl. Morpholino is the same as morpholinyl.

Anticoagulant therapy is indicated for the treatment and prevention of a variety of thrombotic conditions particularly coronary artery and cerebrovascular disease. Those experienced in this field are readily aware of the circumstances requiring anticoagulant therapy. The term patient used herein is taken to mean mammals such as primates including humans sheep horses cattle pigs dogs cats rats and mice.

Thrombin inhibition is useful not only in the anticoagulant therapy of individuals having thrombotic conditions but is useful whenever inhibition of blood coagulation is required such as to prevent coagulation of stored whole blood and to prevent coagulation in other biological samples for testing or storage. Thus the thrombin inhibitors can be added to or contacted with any medium containing or suspected of containing thrombin and in which it is desired that blood coagulation be inhibited e.g. when contacting the mammal s blood with material selected from the group consisting of vascular grafts stents orthopedic prosthesis cardiac prosthesis and extracorporeal circulation systems.

Compounds of the invention are useful for treating or preventing venous thromboembolism e.g. obstruction or occlusion of a vein by a detached thrombus obstruction or occlusion of a lung artery by a detached thrombus cardiogenic thromboembolism e.g. obstruction or occlusion of the heart by a detached thrombus arterial thrombosis e.g. formation of a thrombus within an artery that may cause infarction of tissue supplied by the artery atherosclerosis e.g. arteriosclerosis characterized by irregularly distributed lipid deposits in mammals and for lowering the propensity of devices that come into contact with blood to clot blood.

Examples of venous thromboembolism which may be treated or prevented with compounds of the invention include obstruction of a vein obstruction of a lung artery pulmonary embolism deep vein thrombosis thrombosis associated with cancer and cancer chemotherapy thrombosis inherited with thrombophilic diseases such as Protein C deficiency Protein S deficiency antithrombin III deficiency and Factor V Leiden and thrombosis resulting from acquired thrombophilic disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus inflammatory connective tissue disease . Also with regard to venous thromboembolism compounds of the invention are useful for maintaining patency of indwelling catheters.

Examples of cardiogenic thromboembolism which may be treated or prevented with compounds of the invention include thromboembolic stroke detached thrombus causing neurological affliction related to impaired cerebral blood supply cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with atrial fibrillation rapid irregular twitching of upper heart chamber muscular fibrils cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with prosthetic heart valves such as mechanical heart valves and cardiogenic thromboembolism associated with heart disease.

Examples of arterial thrombosis include unstable angina severe constrictive pain in chest of coronary origin myocardial infarction heart muscle cell death resulting from insufficient blood supply ischemic heart disease local anemia due to obstruction such as by arterial narrowing of blood supply reocclusion during or after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty occlusion of coronary artery bypass grafts and occlusive cerebrovascular disease. Also with regard to arterial thrombosis compounds of the invention are useful for maintaining patency in arteriovenous cannulas.

Examples of devices that come into contact with blood include vascular grafts stents orthopedic prosthesis cardiac prosthesis and extracorporeal circulation systems

The thrombin inhibitors of the invention can be administered in such oral forms as tablets capsules each of which includes sustained release or timed release formulations pills powders granules elixers tinctures suspensions syrups and emulsions. Likewise they may be administered in intravenous bolus or infusion intraperitoneal subcutaneous or intramuscular form all using forms well known to those of ordinary skill in the pharmaceutical arts. An effective but non toxic amount of the compound desired can be employed as an anti aggregation agent. For treating ocular build up of fibrin the compounds may be administered intraocularly or topically as well as orally or parenterally.

The thrombin inhibitors can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which may be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. The active ingredient can be compressed into pellets or small cylinders and implanted subcutaneously or intramuscularly as depot injections or implants. Implants may employ inert materials such as biodegradable polymers or synthetic silicones for example Silastic silicone rubber or other polymers manufactured by the Dow Corning Corporation.

The thrombin inhibitors can also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines.

The thrombin inhibitors may also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the compound molecules are coupled. The thrombin inhibitors may also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinlypyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxy propyl methacrylamide phenol polyhydroxyethyl aspartamide phenol or polyethyleneoxide polylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the thrombin inhibitors may be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyglycolic acid copolymers of polylactic and polyglycolic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and cross linked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels.

The dosage regimen utilizing the thrombin inhibitors is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the route of administration the renal and hepatic function of the patient and the particular compound or salt thereof employed. An ordinarily skilled physician or veterinarian can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the drug required to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition.

Oral dosages of the thrombin inhibitors when used for the indicated effects will range between about 0.01 mg per kg of body weight per day mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day preferably 0.025 7.5 mg kg day more preferably 0.1 2.5 mg kg day and most preferably 0.1 0.5 mg kg day unless specified otherwise amounts of active ingredients are on free base basis . For example an 80 kg patient would receive between about 0.8 mg day and 2.4 g day preferably 2 600 mg day more preferably 8 200 mg day and most preferably 8 40 mg kg day. A suitably prepared medicament for once a day administration would thus contain between 0.8 mg and 2.4 g preferably between 2 mg and 600 mg more preferably between 8 mg and 200 mg and most preferably 8 mg and 40 mg e.g. 8 mg 10 mg 20 mg and 40 mg. Advantageously the thrombin inhibitors may be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. For administration twice a day a suitably prepared medicament would contain between 0.4 mg and 4 g preferably between 1 mg and 300 mg more preferably between 4 mg and 100 mg and most preferably 4 mg and 20 mg e.g. 4 mg 5 mg 10 mg and 20 mg.

Intravenously the patient would receive the active ingredient in quantities sufficient to deliver between 0.025 7.5 mg kg day preferably 0.1 2.5 mg kg day and more preferably 0.1 0.5 mg kg day. Such quantities may be administered in a number of suitable ways e.g. large volumes of low concentrations of active ingredient during one extended period of time or several times a day low volumes of high concentrations of active ingredient during a short period of time e.g. once a day. Typically a conventional intravenous formulation may be prepared which contains a concentration of active ingredient of between about 0.01 1.0 mg ml e.g. 0.1 mg ml 0.3 mg ml and 0.6 mg ml and administered in amounts per day of between 0.01 ml kg patient weight and 10.0 ml kg patient weight e.g. 0.1 ml kg 0.2 ml kg 0.5 ml kg. In one example an 80 kg patient receiving 8 ml twice a day of an intravenous formulation having a concentration of active ingredient of 0.5 mg ml receives 8 mg of active ingredient per day. Glucuronic acid L lactic acid acetic acid citric acid or any pharmaceutically acceptable acid conjugate base with reasonable buffering capacity in the pH range acceptable for intravenous administration may be used as buffers. The choice of appropriate buffer and pH of a formulation depending on solubility of the drug to be administered is readily made by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

The compounds can also be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in that art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration will or course be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regime.

The thrombin inhibitors are typically administered as active ingredients in admixture with suitable pharmaceutical diluents excipients or carriers collectively referred to herein as carrier materials suitably selected with respect to the intended form of administration that is oral tablets capsules elixers syrups and the like and consistent with convention pharmaceutical practices.

For instance for oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule the active drug component can be combined with an oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose glucose methyl cellulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate mannitol sorbitol and the like for oral administration in liquid form the oral drug components can be combined with any oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol glycerol water and the like. Moreover when desired or necessary suitable binders lubricants distintegrating agents and coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders include starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes and the like. Lubricants used in these dosage forms include sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include without limitation starch methyl cellulose agar bentonite xanthan gum and the like.

The thrombin inhibitors can also be co administered with suitable anticoagulants including but not limited to other thrombin inhibitors thrombin receptor antagonists factor VIIa inhibitors factor IXa inhibitors factor Xa inhibitors factor XIa inhibitors adenosine diphosphate antiplatelet agents e.g. P2Y12 antagonists fibrinogen receptor antagonists e.g. to treat or prevent unstable angina or to prevent reocclusion after angioplasty and restenosis other anticoagulants such as aspirin and thrombolytic agents such as plasminogen activators or streptokinase to achieve synergistic effects in the treatment of various vascular pathologies. Such anticoagulants include for example apixaban dabigatran cangrelor ticagrelor vorapaxar clopidogrel edoxaban mipomersen prasugrel rivaroxaban and semuloparin. For example patients suffering from coronary artery disease and patients subjected to angioplasty procedures would benefit from coadministration of fibrinogen receptor antagonists and thrombin inhibitors. Also thrombin inhibitors enhance the efficiency of tissue plasminogen activator mediated thrombolytic reperfusion. Thrombin inhibitors may be administered first following thrombus formation and tissue plasminogen activator or other plasminogen activator is administered thereafter.

Alternatively or additionally one or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. The additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration which is different from the compound of Formula I and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents when such forms are sold commercially or are otherwise chemically possible. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents additional diuretics anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs e.g. losartan i.e. COZAAR valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan eprosartan irbesartan and any of these drugs used in combination with hydrochlorothiazide such as HYZAAR diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine verapamil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds for the treatment of diabetes such as biguanides e.g. metformin meglitinides e.g. repaglinide nateglinide sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolazamide tolbutamide thiazolidinediones also referred to as glitazones e.g. pioglitazone rosiglitazone alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose miglitol dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin JANUVIA alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin ergot alkaloids e.g. bromocriptine combination medications such as JANUMET sitagliptin with metformin and injectable diabetes medications such as exenatide and pramlintide acetate or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including but not limited to diazoxide and including the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms of the above active agents where chemically possible.

Typical doses of thrombin inhibitors of the invention in combination with other suitable anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents may be the same as those doses of thrombin inhibitors administered without coadministration of additional anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents or may be substantially less that those doses of thrombin inhibitors administered without coadministration of additional anti platelet agents anticoagulation agents or thrombolytic agents depending on a patient s therapeutic needs.

The compounds of the instant invention can be prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art. The synthesis generally begins with the core amino acid A. The N H group is protected using a standard amine protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like by reacting the amine with the appropriate protecting reagent such as BOC O FMOC Cl CBZ Cl and the like at a temperature of 0 35 C. in an appropriate solvent such as THF dioxane ether dichloromethane and the like with or without added base such as NaHCO EtN and the like for a period of 1 24 hours. In cases where the core contains an additional amino group the second amine is protected with an orthogonal protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like using standard techniques known to those skilled in the art. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water acidified by addition of a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and may be purified by chromatography or used as is in the next step.

The second step of the synthesis involves coupling the core acid with an amine side chain to form an amide bond. This can be accomplished using standard amide bond forming techniques well known to those skilled in the art. The core acid and the side chain amine are dissolved or suspended in a suitable solvent such as DMF THF dichloromethane and the like then a coupling agent such as EDC DCC PyBOP and the like is added and the reaction is allowed to proceed with or without an additive such as HOBT DMAP and the like at a temperature of 0 35 C. for 1 24 hours. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water washed with a basic aqueous solution such as aqueous sodium bicarbonate aqueous potassium carbonate and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and may be purified by chromatography or used as is in the next step.

The third step involves removal of the amine protecting group installed in step one using standard methods well known to those skilled in the art. The fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl FMOC group for example is removed by dissolving the product of step two in an appropriate solvent such as dichloromethane ether and the like and adding an organic amine base such as piperidine morpholine and the like. The reaction mixture is stirred at a temperature of 0 35 C. for 1 24 hours then concentrated under vacuum. The residue is purified by silica gel chromatography or HPLC to afford the desired intermediate.

The fourth step involves installation of the left hand side chain by forming an amide bond between the amine nitrogen of the amino acid core and the acid of the side chain. This can be accomplished using standard amide bond forming techniques well known to those skilled in the art. The core amine and the side chain acid are dissolved or suspended in a suitable solvent such as DMF THF dichloromethane and the like then a coupling agent such as EDC DCC PyBOP and the like is added and the reaction is allowed to proceed with or without an additive such as HOBT DMAP and the like at a temperature of 0 35 C. for 1 24 hours. Upon completion the reaction mixture is diluted with water washed with a basic aqueous solution such as aqueous sodium bicarbonate aqueous potassium carbonate and the like and extracted with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate ether and the like. The product is isolated by evaporation of the solvent and the crude product is purified by silica gel chromatography or HPLC.

The final step involves removal of any protecting groups present in the two side chains. In the case where Rand or Ris an amino group the amine nitrogen s will have been protected as a using a standard amine protecting group such as BOC FMOC CBZ and the like. Such protecting groups can be removed using standard techniques well known to those skilled in the art. When Ris a tetrazole no protecting group is needed for that side chain and such compounds can be readily prepared using the procedures outlined above without a final protecting group removal. In instances where Ris a hydroxyl group the hydroxyl will have been protected with a protecting group such as acetate t butyldimethylsilyl and the like. Such protecting groups can be removed using standard techniques well known to those skilled in the art. Once deprotection is complete the final products can be purified by silica gel chromatography or HPLC. When Ris a sulfonamide no protecting group is needed for that side chain and such compounds can be readily prepared using the procedures outlined above without a final protecting group removal.

Unless otherwise stated all NMR determinations were made using 400 MHz field strength. Ki data was obtained according to the procedure described in Lewis et al. Thromb. Res. 1993 70 173 assays of human thrombin and human trypsin and Lewis et al. Thromb. Haemostasis 1995 74 1107 1112.

To a stirred mixture of S piperidine 2 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 7.75 mmol and NaCO 1.65 g 15.50 mmol in water 10 mL was added a solution of FMOC Cl 3.0 g 11.63 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and washed with MTBE 25 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 1M aqueous HCl 10 mL to pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound 1.41 g as an off white solid. The crude product was used in the next step without purification.

A mixture of crude S 1 9H Fluoren 9 yl methoxycarbonyl piperidine 2 carboxylic acid 0.75 g 2.21 mmol tert butyl 2 aminomethyl 4 chlorobenzyl carbamate 0.52 g 1.93 mmol HOBT 0.26 g 1.93 mmol and EDC.HCl 0.48 g 2.51 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 20 mL and diluted with EtOAc 50 mL . The organic layer was washed sequentially with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 50 mL and brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.89 g as a white solid.

Piperidine 1.0 mL 10.0 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of S 9H Fluoren 9 yl methyl 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 0.89 g 1.47 mmol in CHCl 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.45 g as a white solid.

To a cooled 10 C. solution of 2R 1 chloro 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.15 g 0.82 mmol in THF 5 mL was added triethylamine 0.54 mL 3.90 mmol and a solution of S tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 piperidine 2 carboxamido methylbenzylcarbamate 0.3 g 0.78 mmol in THF 2 mL at 10 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 0 10 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.27 g as a white solid.

Solid KCO 7.5 mg 0.052 mmol was added to a solution of R 1 S 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl piperidin 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.14 g 0.26 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed sequentially with 0.1 N aqueous HCl 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine solution 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide the intermediate BOC protected amino alcohol 0.12 g crude as an off white solid. The crude intermediate was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL then trifluoroacetic acid 0.5 mL 27.20 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then volatile byproducts were removed under reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound as a white solid. H NMR MeOD 400 MHz ppm 7.36 7.46 m 3H 4.99 5.08 m 1H 4.01 4.51 m 6H 3.36 3.37 m 1H 2.15 2.21 m 1H 1.64 1.68 m 3H 1.39 1.54 m 2H 0.98 s 9H .

To a stirred mixture of S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl piperazine 2 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 4.34 mmol and NaCO 0.90 g 10.80 mmol in water 10 mL was added solution of FMOC Cl 1.23 g 4.77 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL dropwise at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h then diluted with water 50 mL and washed with MTBE 25 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 1N aqueous HCl 10 mL to pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound 0.87 g as an off white solid. The crude product was used in the next step without purification.

A mixture of S 1 9H Fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl piperazine 2 carboxylic acid 0.27 g 1.0 mmol tert butyl 2 aminomethyl 4 chlorobenzyl carbamate 0.5 g 1.10 mmol HOBT 0.135 g 1 mmol and EDC.HCl 0.25 g 1.30 mmol in anhydrous DMF 3 mL was stirred under nitrogen at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 10 mL diluted with EtOAc 25 mL and washed sequentially with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 25 mL and brine solution 25 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.61 g as white solid.

Piperidine 0.5 mL 5.06 mmol was added to a stirred solution of S 1 9H Fluoren 9 yl methyl 4 tert butyl 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzyl carbamoyl piperazine 1 4 dicarboxylate 0.60 g 0.85 mmol in CHCl 4 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain the title compound 0.30 g as a white solid.

A solution of R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 86.2 mg 0.65 mmol in acetyl chloride 0.15 mL 2.11 mmol was heated to 60 C. for 15 min. Excess acetyl chloride was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dried under high vacuum. The residue was dissolved in thionyl chloride 0.15 mL 2.06 mmol and the mixture was heated at refluxed for 2 h. Volatile impurities were dissolved in THF 5 mL and triethylamine 0.45 mL 3.26 mmol was added. A solution of S tert Butyl 3 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl piperazine 1carboxylate 0.30 g 0.62 mmol in THF 2 mL at 5 C. was then added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 50 mL then dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.2 g as a white solid.

Solid KCO 8.2 mg 0.06 mmol was added to a solution of S tert Butyl 4 R 2 acetoxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 3 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino methyl 5 chlorobenzyl carbamoyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 0.19 g 0.30 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction removed under reduced pressure and residue was dried under high vacuum. The residue was mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with 0.1 N aqueous HCl 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine 20 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the BOC protected intermediate 0.13 g as an off white solid. This intermediate was dissolved in CHCl 3 mL then trifluoroacetic acid 0.8 mL 48 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The volatile byproducts were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain the title compound as a white solid. H NMR CDCN 300 MHz ppm 8.88 8.01 m 5H 7.44 7.34 m 3H 5.72 5.21 m 1H 4.73 4.12 m 6H 3.88 3.83 m 1H 3.40 2.70 m 5H 0.99 brs 9H .

To a stirred suspension of S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl piperazine 2 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 4.34 mmol in water 5 mL was added solid NaHCO 0.73 g 8.68 mmol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature to get clear solution. Solution of CBZ Cl 1.22 mL 8.68 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 0.5M aqueous HCl to pH 5 and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 1.30 g as white solid.

To a stirred solution of S 1 benzyloxy carbonyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl piperazine 2 carboxylic acid 1.3 g 3.57 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added KCO 1.48 g 10.71 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 min. Methyl iodide 0.66 mL 10.71 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 1.00 g as a light yellow oil which was used in the next step without purification.

Trifluoroacetic acid 2.5 mL was added to a stirred solution of S 1 Benzyl 2 methyl 4 methyl piperazine 1 2 dicarboxylate 1.00 g 2.63 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at room temperature and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 30 min. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 30 mL washed with diethyl ether 2 20 mL and dried under high vacuum to afford the title compound 1.0 g as an off white hygroscopic solid.

To a stirred solution of S 1 Benzyl 2 methyl piperazine 1 2 dicarboxylate 1.0 g 3.78 mmol in MeOH 25 mL was added triethylamine 0.52 mL 3.78 mmol and reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. Paraformaldehyde 0.92 g 11.36 mmol was added to the reaction mixture followed by addition of a catalytic amount of acetic acid. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. NaCNBH 0.35 g 5.68 mmol was added in portion at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 50 mL and washed with NHOH solution 27 aqueous solution 50 mL . The organic layer was separated washed with water 2 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 0.52 g as a colorless oil.

Pd C 0.05 g 10 by wt was added to the stirred solution of S 1 Benzyl 2 methyl 4 methylpiperazine 1 2 dicarboxylate 0.52 g 1.787 mmol in MeOH 25 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under an atmosphere of hydrogen 1 atm. for 3 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite washed with MeOH 2 20 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 water acetonitrile to afford the title compound 0.20 g as a pale yellow hygroscopic solid.

To a stirred solution of 2R 1 chloro 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.247 g 1.41 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added triethylamine 0.39 mL 2.83 mmol and a solution of S methyl 4 methylpiperazine 2 carboxylate 0.150 g 0.943 mmol in CHCl 3 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. Water 10 mL was then added to quench the reaction and the reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 2 25 mL . The combined organic layers were separated washed with water 2 50 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 0.12 g as a white solid.

A solution of LiOH 0.016 g 0.66 mmol in water 2 mL was added to a stirred solution of S methyl 1 R 2 acetoxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 methylpiperazine 2 carboxylate 0.07 g 0.22 mmol in a 1 1 THF MeOH mixture 3 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in water 10 mL acidified with 1M aqueous HCl to pH 2 3 and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 0.034 g as a colorless oil.

A mixture of S 1 R 2 Hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 methylpiperazine 2 carboxylic acid 0.04 g 0.15 mmol 4 chloro 1 2 phenylene dimethanamine 0.042 g 0.15 mmol EDCI 0.36 g 0.186 mmol HOBt 0.025 g 0.18 mmol and triethylamine 0.06 mL 0.46 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 10 mL and diluted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The organic layer was separated washed with water 1 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography C18 eluent 10 40 water acetonitrile to afford the title compound 0.025 g as a white solid.

Trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL 50 solution in CHCl was added to a solution of tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 S 1 R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl 4 methylpiperazine 2 carboxamidomethyl benzylcarbamate 0.022 g 0.0043 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 5 mL . The solid was washed with ether 2 4 mL and dried under high vacuum to afford the title compound as a white hygroscopic solid. H NMR MeOD d 300 MH ppm 7.36 7.55 m 3H 5.21 5.38 m 1H 4.37 4.53 m 3H 4.26 4.28 m 3H 3.95 3.68 m 2H 3.16 3.22 m 1H 2.55 2.73 m 5H 0.97 s 9H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL was added to a solution of S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl morpholine 3 carboxylic acid 5.00 g 21.64 mmol in CHCl 40 mL dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the crude residue 2.80 g 21.30 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of dioxane 30 mL and water 10 mL . The suspension was cooled to 0 C. FMOC Cl 6.60 g 25.60 mmol and KCO 11.60 g 84.2 mmol were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with water 20 mL and acidified with 1M aqueous HCl 30 mL to pH 2 3. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound 6.41 g as colorless oil which was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of S 4 9H Fluoren 9 yl methoxycarbonyl morpholine 3 carboxylic acid 2.96 g 8.39 mmol 1.0 eq in CHCl 10 mL EDCI 3.20 g 16.68 mmol 2 eq. HOBT 2.20 g 16.28 mmol and tert butyl 2 aminomethyl 4 chlorobenzyl carbamate 2.20 g 8.39 mmol were added at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 5 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL and washed sequentially with saturated NaHCOsolution 20 mL and 0.5 M aqueous HCl 20 mL . The organic layer was separated washed with brine solution 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 40 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound as pale yellow semi solid 4.10 g 

Piperidine 4.5 mL 45.2 mmol was added to a solution of S 9H Fluoren 9 yl methyl 3 2 tert butoxycarbonyl aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl morpholine 4 carboxylate 4.10 g 67.6 mmol in CHCl 20 mL at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash chromatography C18 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound as a white solid 1.61 g .

To a solution of R 2 acetoxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoic acid 0.14 g 1.04 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was added oxalyl chloride 1.10 mL 1.30 mmol at 0 C. under nitrogen atmosphere and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 40 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 4 mL . A solution of S tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 morpholine 3 carboxamido methylbenzylcarbamate 0.20 g 0.52 mmol and triethylamine 0.70 mL 2.08 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and washed sequentially with saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL and 1M aqueous HCl 10 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine solution 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent 50 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 0.2 g .

KCO 0.016 g 0.11 mmol was added to a solution of R 1 S 3 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl morpholino 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxo butan 2 yl acetate 0.28 g 0.51 mmol in MeOH 3 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL acidified with 1N aqueous HCl 5 mL and the extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel eluent 70 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound as a pale yellow oil 0.25 g .

Trifluoroacetic acid 50 solution in CHCl 3 mL was added to a solution of tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 S 4 R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoylmorpholine 3 carboxamido methyl benzylcarbamate 0.25 g 0.50 mmol in CHCl 1 mL and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and residue was triturated with diethyl ether to afford the title compound as a white hygroscopic solid. HNMR 400 MHz CDCN 8.37 t J 4.0 Hz 1H 8.05 bs 3H 7.46 7.43 m 2H 7.34 dd J 8.4 Hz J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.78 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 4.46 dd J 15.2 6.0 Hz 1H 4.39 4.43 m 3H 4.22 d J 2.8 Hz 2H 3.91 d J 12.4 Hz 2H 3.86 dd J 11.6 2.4 Hz 1H 3.58 dd J 8.4 Hz J 4.0 Hz 1H 3.53 3.42 m 2H 0.98 s 9H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL 23.5 mmol was added to a stirred solution of R 4 tert butoxy carbonyl thiomorpholine 3 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 4.05 mmol in CHCl 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Volatile byproducts were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was concentrated from toluene 2 20 mL and dried under high vacuum for 30 min. The crude residue was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL and water 10 mL was added followed by NaHCO 1.02 g 12.15 mmol and a solution of FMOC Cl 1.04 g 4.05 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove volatile organic solvent and the residue was washed with MTBE 2 20 mL . The aqueous layer was acidified with 1N aqueous HCl to pH 2 and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 1.00 g as a white semi solid.

A mixture of R 4 9H Fluoren 9 yl methoxycarbonyl thiomorpholine 3 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 2.71 mmol amine 0.73 g 2.71 mmol HOBT 0.44 g 3.25 mmol EDC.HCl 0.62 g 3.25 mmol and DIPEA 1.42 mL 8.13 mmol in DMF 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed sequentially with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 20 mL and brine solution 2 20 mL . The organic layer was separated dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by combiflash column chromatography silica gel eluent 30 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound 1.20 g as white solid.

Piperidine 0.95 mL 9.65 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of R 9H Fluoren 9 yl methyl 3 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chloro benzylcarbamoyl thiomorpholine 4 carboxylate 1.20 g 1.93 mmol in CHCl 50 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Volatile solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound 0.64 g as a white solid.

To a solution of R tert Butyl 4 chloro 2 thiomorpholine 3 carboxamido methyl benzyl carbamate 0.56 g 1.40 mmol in CHCl 25 mL was added triethyl amine 0.59 mL 4.2 mmol and solution of 2R 1 chloro 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.496 g 2.8 mmol in CHCl 5 mL dropwise at 10 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature over 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to obtain the title compound 0.42 g as a white solid.

Solid KCO 5.8 mg 0.042 mmol was added to the solution of R 1 R 3 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl thiomorpholino 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxo butan 2 yl acetate 0.12 g 0.21 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with 0.1M aqueous HCl 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine solution 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the intermediate BOC protected alcohol as an off white solid 0.092 g crude . The crude intermediate was dissolved in CHCl 3 mL then trifluoroacetic acid 1.0 mL 13.42 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Volatile byproducts were removed under vacuum and the residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound as a white solid. H NMR MeOD 400 MH ppm 7.41 s 1H 7.39 7.35 m 2H 5.28 t J 4.4 Hz 1H 4.54 4.38 m 3H 4.28 4.21 m 3H 3.61 3.54 m 1H 3.18 3.12 m 1H 2.93 2.88 m 1H 2.82 2.75 m 1H 2.62 2.59 m 1H 0.98 m 9H .

m Chloroperbenzoic acid 0.039 g 0.22 mmol was added to the solution of R 1 R 3 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl thiomorpholino 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.10 g 0.25 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous NaSOsolution 20 mL and 10 aqueous NaHCO 20 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to the title compound 0.10 g as a white solid.

Solid KCO 4.7 mg 0.034 mmol was added to the solution of R 1 R 3 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl S 4 oxo thiomorpholino 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.10 g 0.17 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with 0.1M aqueous HCl 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine solution 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the intermediate BOC protected alcohol as an off white solid 0.06 g crude . The crude intermediate was dissolved in in CHCl 2 mL then trifluoroacetic acid 1.0 mL 13.42 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then volatile byproducts were removed under reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound as a white solid. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz mixture of rotamers ppm 7.41 s 1H 7.39 7.35 m 2H 5.28 t J 4.4 Hz 1H 4.54 4.38 m 3H 4.28 4.21 m 3H 3.61 3.54 m 1H 3.18 3.12 m 1H 2.93 2.88 m 1H 2.82 2.75 m 1H 2.62 2.59 m 1H 0.98 s 9H .

m Chloroperbenzoic acid 0.155 g 0.9 mmol was added to the solution of R 1 R 3 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino methyl 5 chlorobenzylcarbamoyl thiomorpholino 3 3 dimethyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl acetate 0.2 g 0.36 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous NaSOsolution 20 mL and 10 aqueous NaHCO 20 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL . The combined organic extract was washed with brine solution 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to provide afford the title compound 0.14 g as a white solid.

Solid KCO 6.62 mg 0.048 mmol was added to the solution of R 4 9H Fluoren 9 yl methoxycarbonyl S 4 4 dioxide thiomorpholine 3 carboxylic acid 0.14 g 0.24 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL and washed sequentially with 0.1M aqueous HCl 20 mL water 2 20 mL and brine solution 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the intermediate BOC protected alcohol as an off white solid 0.065 g crude . The crude intermediate was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and trifluoro acetic acid 0.5 mL 6.71 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then volatile byproducts were removed under reduced pressure residue. The residue was purified by reverse phase combiflash column chromatography C18 eluent 10 100 acetonitrile water to afford the title compound as a white solid. H NMR MeOD d 400 MHz mixture of rotamers ppm 7.49 7.38 m 3H 5.88 5.47 m 1H 4.58 4.22 m 5H 4.15 3.71 m 2H 3.52 3.35 m 2H 3.16 3.01 m 2H 0.98 br s 9H .

Relevant in vitro assays are referenced in Morrissette et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 2004 14 4161 4164 and described in Lewis et al. Thromb. Res. 1993 70 173 assays of human thrombin and human trypsin and Lewis et al. Thromb. Haemostasis 1995 74 1107 1112. The assays were carried out at 25 C. in 0.05 M TRIS buffer pH 7.4 0.15 M NaCl 0.1 PEG. Trypsin assays also contained 1 mM CaCl. In assays wherein rates of hydrolysis of a p nitroanilide pna substrate were determined a Thermomax 96 well plate reader was used was used to measure at 405 nm the time dependent appearance of p nitroaniline. sar PR pna was used to assay human thrombin K 125 M and bovine trypsin K 125 M . p Nitroanilide substrate concentration was determined from measurements of absorbance at 342 nm using an extinction coefficient of 8270 cmM.

Activity assays were performed by diluting a stock solution of substrate at least tenfold to a final concentration 0.1 Kinto a solution containing enzyme or enzyme equilibrated with inhibitor. Times required to achieve equilibration between enzyme and inhibitor were determined in control experiments. Initial velocities of product formation in the absence V or presence of inhibitor V were measured. Assuming competitive inhibition and that unity is negligible compared K S I e and I e where S I and e respectively represent the total concentrations of substrate inhibitor and enzyme the equilibrium constant K for dissociation of the inhibitor from the enzyme can be obtained from the dependence of V Von I shown in the following equation. 1 

The activities shown by this assay indicate that the compounds of the invention are therapeutically useful for treating various conditions in patients suffering from unstable angina refractory angina myocardial infarction transient ischemic attacks atrial fibrillation thrombotic stroke embolic stroke deep vein thrombosis disseminated intravascular coagulation and reocclusion or restenosis of recanalized vessels.

Tablets containing 25.0 50.0 and 100.0 mg. respectively of the following active compounds are prepared as illustrated below compositions A C . Active I is 2S N 2 aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 2R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl piperidine 2 carboxamide trifluoroacetate salt.

All of the active compound cellulose and a portion of the corn starch are mixed and granulated to 10 corn starch paste. The resulting granulation is sieved dried and blended with the remainder of the corn starch and the magnesium stearate. The resulting granulation is then compressed into tablets containing 25.0 50.0 and 100.0 mg respectively of active ingredient per tablet.

Exemplary compositions of 2S N 2 aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 2R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl piperidine 2 carboxamide trifluoroacetate salt Active I tablets are shown below 

2 10 and 50 mg tablets were film coated with an aqueous dispersion of hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and titanium dioxide providing a nominal weight gain of 2.4 .

Active I mannitol and microcrystalline cellulose were sieved through mesh screens of specified size generally 250 to drug was uniformly distributed in the resulting dry powder blend. Magnesium stearate was screened and added to the blender after which a precompression tablet blend was achieved upon additional mixing typically 2 to 10 min The precompression tablet blend was then compacted under an applied force typically ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 metric tons sufficient to yield tablets of suitable physical strength with acceptable disintegration times specifications will vary with the size and potency of the compressed tablet . In the case of the 2 10 and 50 mg potencies the tablets were dedusted and film coated with an aqueous dispersion of water soluble polymers and pigment.

Alternatively a dry powder blend is compacted under modest forces and remilled to afford granules of specified particle size. The granules are then mixed with magnesium stearate and tableted as stated above.

Intravenous formulations of 2S N 2 aminomethyl 5 chlorobenzyl 1 2R 2 hydroxy 3 3 dimethylbutanoyl piperidine 2 carboxamide trifluoroacetate salt Active I were prepared according to general intravenous formulation procedures.

750 m and combined in a suitable blender. The mixture was subsequently blended typically 15 to 30 min until the

