---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence-based recommendations and game mechanics
abstract: The subject matter described herein includes methods, systems, and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence-based recommendations and game mechanics. According to one aspect, a method for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence-based recommendations is provided. The method occurs at a computing platform including a processor and memory. The method includes receiving information regarding characteristics and/or activities of a user, wherein the user is associated with a medical condition or an age group. The method further includes determining, using the received information and predetermined health information associated with the medical condition or the age group, an action for promoting behavioral intervention. The method also includes providing the action or information associated with the action to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483957&OS=09483957&RS=09483957
owner: Duke University
number: 09483957
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130926
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 707 631 filed Sep. 28 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. 1R21CA155965 and 1K07CA124905 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Contained herein is material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the reproduction of the patent disclosure by any person as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office files or records but otherwise reserves all rights to the copyright whatsoever.

The subject matter described herein relates generally to promoting behavioral intervention. More particularly the subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence based recommendations and game mechanics.

Adolescent survivors of childhood cancers such as Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia are at risk for a number of long term health problems. Interventions are difficult to deliver to this population due to their geographically dispersed nature and to the fact that they make fewer clinic visits during adolescence. These difficulties make distance based strategies desirable. Although it is strongly recommended that adolescent survivors of childhood cancer maintain a healthy lifestyle throughout adolescence and into adulthood few interventions have been developed specifically for this population. Many pediatric hematology and or oncology programs have long term survivor clinics during which routine check ups are performed. Often the only source of health education aimed communication that will occur at these clinic visits are universal patient advice or generic print brochures. Accordingly a need exists for methods systems and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence based recommendations and game mechanics.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence based recommendations and game mechanics. According to one aspect a method for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence based recommendations is provided. The method occurs at a computing platform including a processor and memory. The method includes receiving information regarding characteristics and or activities of the user of a user wherein the user is associated with a medical condition or an age group. The method further includes determining using the received information and predetermined health information associated with the medical condition or the age group an action for promoting behavioral intervention. The method also includes providing the action or information associated with the action to the user.

A system for promoting behavioral intervention via evidence based recommendations is also disclosed. The system includes a computing platform including a processor and memory. The computing platform includes a behavioral intervention module BIM configured to receive information regarding characteristics and or activities of a user wherein the user is associated with a medical condition or an age group to determine using the received information and predetermined health information associated with the medical condition or the age group an action for promoting behavioral intervention and to provide the action or information associated with the action to the user.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented in software in combination with hardware and or firmware. For example the subject matter described herein may be implemented in software executed by a processor e.g. a hardware based processor . In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory devices such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices such as field programmable gate arrays and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

As used herein the term node refers to a physical computing platform including one or more processors and memory.

As used herein the terms function or module refer to software in combination with hardware and or firmware for implementing features described herein. In some embodiments a module may include a field programmable gateway array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a processor.

Several aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which are achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other aspects and objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying Figures as best described herein below.

The subject matter described herein discloses methods systems and computer readable media for promoting behavioral intervention. While successful advancements in treatment for cancers such as childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ALL and other medical conditions have resulted in a growing number of survivors these survivors can be at risk for a number of long term health problems including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease insulin resistance osteoporosis and obesity. These problems can be exacerbated by unhealthy lifestyle behaviors such as low or minimal physical activity poor diet quality and resultant weight gain. Unfortunately there are few interventions aimed to increase physical activity and healthy dietary intake among such survivors.

Aspects of the present subject matter described herein promote behavioral intervention e.g. lifestyle changes via evidence based recommendations. In some embodiments promoting behavioral intervention may occur at or include an application also referred to herein as app executing on a processor associated with a mobile device e.g. a smartphone or a tablet device or other computing platform e.g. a server or a computerized medical instrument .

Computing platform may include a behavioral intervention module BIM and a memory . BIM may be any suitable entity e.g. software executing on a processor for promoting behavioral intervention. BIM may be configured to receive information from or about a user e.g. via a graphical user interface GUI exercise equipment or a text file determine an action for promoting behavioral intervention and or provide the action or information associated with the action to the user.

In some embodiments BIM may include an app that uses game mechanics to promote behavioral intervention by interacting with users or classes of users e.g. people associated with one or more diseases or conditions and or an age group . The app may encourage self monitoring and may reward real life activities with virtual game based rewards or recognition. The app may also allow users to log physical activities such as steps walked or miles ran and log dietary activities such as daily caloric intake or types of food eaten. For example a wireless pedometer or other sensor may be used for logging physical activity information e.g. a step count and may be capable of providing the physical activity information to the app or BIM e.g. via wireless transmittal or electronic transfer. In some embodiments BIM or another module may provide a reporting function or other mechanism for organizing and providing a user s logged data goals and or progress. The mechanism may generate a report e.g. such as a text document or a visual diagram for quickly identifying issues and or accomplishments and may be provided to a user a parent of the user a physician an intervention counselor or other relevant person.

To entice users into entering information regarding characteristics and or activities and into implementing one or more actions for promoting behavioral intervention provided by BIM game mechanics may be used. Exemplary game mechanics employed may include an immersive storyline via a graphical user interface levels or expeditions goals rewards and or other elements. For example each week an expedition may be accessed via an app thereby immersing participants in the app s storyline. In this example to complete each expedition a certain number of points may be needed. Users may earn points for logging their meals and or logging physical activities. More points may be awarded for more healthy actions or behaviors. Users may earn additional points by completing action for promoting behavioral intervention and or participating in social components of the app.

BIM may use received information about characteristics and or activities of the user along with predetermined health information e.g. scientifically recommended or clinically proven dietary requirements for persons similar to the user to determine one or more actions for promoting behavioral intervention. An action for promoting behavioral intervention may include any action for influencing a person s behavior. For example action for promoting behavioral intervention may include an action for lifestyle change e.g. as a diet or exercise recommendation etc. a biometric analysis e.g. pulse monitoring weight tracking blood pressure monitoring etc. and or health related behaviors e.g. medicine compliance completed doctor visits etc. . In another example an action for promoting behavioral intervention may be a behavioral recommendation such as a recommendation to eat 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetables a day a recommendation to talk with other people regarding healthy lifestyle choices or a recommendation to walk at least ten thousand steps every day.

After determining an action for promoting behavioral intervention BIM may provide the action or information associated with the action to a user. For example a behavioral recommendation or other action for promoting behavioral intervention may be provided via a phone call a social networking message e.g. Facebook or Twitter an email or a text message. In another example a behavioral recommendation or other action for promoting behavioral intervention may be provided via an app. When provided via an app the behavioral recommendation or other action for promoting behavioral intervention may appear as a challenge a goal or other element for earning rewards e.g. points . By providing the behavioral recommendation or other action for promoting behavioral intervention via the app game mechanics may entice the user to complete or implement the behavioral recommendation.

Memory may be any suitable entity e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium for storing information. Memory may include behavioral recommendations BR storage and a user data and or predetermined health information UDPHI storage . BR storage may be any suitable entity e.g. a database embodied or stored in a computer readable medium for storing behavioral recommendations or other actions for promoting behavioral intervention. For example BR storage may include behavioral recommendations for children or adolescents with cancer or obesity. BR storage may index behavioral recommendations or other actions for promoting behavioral intervention using various factors including how long user has been in an intervention program and or physiological data such as age height and weight of the user.

UDPHI storage may be any suitable entity for storing user data and or predetermined health information. For example UDPHI storage may include user data regarding characteristics and or activities of the user e.g. collected over a period of time. UDPHI storage may also include predetermined health information including information gathered by clinical studies patient surveys and or doctor assessments. The predetermined health information may include nutritional needs e.g. daily caloric or fat intake values exercise needs e.g. number of steps or miles to walk or run per day emotional needs e.g. minutes of meditation counseling or social interaction with peers per day or other information. In some embodiments UDPHI storage or another entity may maintain associations between relevant health information and a given user or class of user. For example users associated with different conditions and or age groups may be associated with different nutritional needs and or exercise needs. BR storage and or UDPHI storage may be accessible by one or more modules of computing module and may be located externally to or integrated with one or more modules. For example BR storage and or UDPHI storage may be stored at a server located remotely from a mobile device containing BIM but still accessible by BIM . In another example storage or may be located at distributed or separated across multiple nodes.

It will be appreciated that the above described modules are for illustrative purposes and that features or portions of features described herein may be performed by different and or additional modules components or nodes. For example aspects of promoting behavioral intervention described herein may be performed by BIM computing platform and or other modules or nodes.

User interface may provide status information associated with various aspects of behavior intervention using game mechanisms. User interface may include an expedition pane a user or account pane and a challenge log pane. The expedition pane may represent a portion of user interface that provides information regarding a current expedition. For example a current expedition may include a storyline associated with performing an activity and or obtaining a certain number of points. The expedition pane of user interface may indicate a user progress associated with an expedition such as indicating that 79 337 points have been obtained and or that 50 of the current expedition is complete.

A user or account pane may represent a portion of user interface that provides information regarding a current user. Exemplary information provided in the account pane may include information about user s team previous expeditions or game history a list of badges or accomplishments and or access to a virtual store or item inventory. The account pane of user interface may also indicate a picture or avatar associated with a user and may include user interface elements for changing or modifying the picture or avatar.

A challenge log pane may represent a portion of user interface that provides information about current past and or future challenges or goals. For example a challenge may be provided by an intervention counselor or BIM . In this example the intervention counselor or BIM may select a challenge from a set of predetermined challenges based on user provided information and evidence based health data. The expedition pane of user interface may indicate challenges along with relevant storylines and or challenge presenters.

User interface may be usable e.g. by a user for providing receiving and or viewing diet information. For example diet information may include food names food types food amounts or other food related information. In some embodiments diet information may be represented using colors numbers letters or other symbols.

User interface may include an energy gauge a meals tracker element a drinks tracker element and or one or more user interface elements for requesting or modifying diet information. User interface may indicate types of foods and or drinks consumed during a certain period e.g. a day a week or an expedition period . For example user interface may receive and or display diet information in relation to a traffic light diet. A traffic light diet may divide different meals and drinks based on calorie and fat content into one of three different colors e.g. green yellow and red. For example a green colored meal may contain a low amount of calories a yellow colored meal may contain a moderate amount of calories and a red colored meal may contain a high amount of calories or may be high in fat and or sugar. Generally users following the traffic light diet attempt to eat as much green colored meals and or drinks as possible and avoid red colored meals and or drinks but yellow colored meals and or drinks are typically the most commonly consumed.

The energy gauge may include a needle for indicating calorie consumption for a user. For example if the needle of the energy gauge is too far left a user may be eating or consuming too few calories if the needle is too far right the user may be eating or consuming too many calories and if the need is in the middle the user may be eating or consuming an appropriate amount of calories. In some embodiments the energy gauge may be configured so as to represent a user s particular caloric needs.

A meals tracker element may be usable for indicating amounts and types of meals consumed. For example a user may click or select the icon and may identify a meal from a list of predetermined meals and or provide relevant information about the meal e.g. individual food items and portion sizes . In this example depending on whether the meal is a green colored meal a yellow colored meal or a red colored meal a number associated with the relevant color may be incremented and displayed by the meals tracker element.

A drinks tracker element may be usable for indicating amounts and types of drinks consumed. For example a user may click or select the icon and may identify a drink from a list of predetermined drinks or provide relevant information about the drink e.g. number of ounces in the drink . In this example depending on whether the drink is a green colored drink a yellow colored drink or a red colored drink a number associated with the relevant color may be incremented and displayed by the drinks tracker element.

A Not Sure What I Just Ate user element may be for requesting help in determining how to classify a meal or drink. In some embodiments in response to selecting the Not Sure What I Just Ate user element BIM or a human e.g. an intervention counselor may contact user and or request information e.g. an uploaded picture in helping determine what type of meal or drink was consumed.

A camera user element may be a selectable icon usable for uploading a picture of a meal or drink. In some embodiments an uploaded picture may be analyzed by BIM or a human e.g. an intervention counselor in determining what type of meal or drink was consumed. In some embodiments BIM may be configured to automatically classify and or log a meal or drink based on an uploaded picture.

A Change My Entries user element may be for modifying or deleting previously entered diet information. For example in response to selecting the Change My Entries user element a second user interface may display a list of previous diet related entries for modification and or deletion.

User interface may be usable e.g. by a user for providing receiving and or viewing physical activity information. For example physical activity information may include names of physical activities and duration. In some embodiments physical activity information may be represented using colors numbers letters or other symbols.

User interface may include an expedition gauge a today s steps tracker element and or one or more user interface elements for providing various physical activity information. The expedition gauge may be for indicating a user s progress during an expedition. For example the expedition gauge may be represented by an unfilled colorless mountain. In this example as progress increases the mountain may become filled with color. For instance when an expedition is 50 complete the mountain may be half filled with color.

A today s steps tracker element may be usable for indicating an amount of steps a user has taken in the last 24 hours. For example a number of unfilled colorless arrows may be used to represent a step quota for the day. In this example as a step count increases the arrows may become filled with color and when the step quota is reached all arrows are filled with colors.

A Weight Log user element may be usable for tracking a user s weight. In some embodiments in response to selecting the Weight Log user element a second user interface may be displayed containing a list of entries indicating weight information. The second interface may also include additional space and user interface elements for modifying entries and or providing additional entries.

An Activity Log user element may be usable for tracking a user s physical activities. In some embodiments in response to selecting the Activity Log user element a second user interface may be displayed containing a list of entries indicating physical activities and related durations. The second interface may also include additional space and user interface elements for modifying entries and or providing additional entries.

An Update Step Count user element may be a button for providing step information. For example in response to selecting the Update Step Count user element a second user interface may be displayed that allows a user to enter an amount of steps to add to a current steps total e.g. via manual entry or wireless syncing with a sensor or a pedometer that is capable of tracking steps and providing step information.

A synch user element may be a button or data entry mode for providing step information and or other physical activity information. For example in response to selecting the synch user element information from a pedometer may be automatically retrieved and stored by BIM or a related application e.g. by updating a current steps total with the retrieved information .

User interface may be usable e.g. by a user for providing receiving and or viewing communications or other social interactions. For example user interface may be usable for sending text images or other media to other users or groups of users and receiving media from other users or groups of users. User interface may also be usable for sharing progress or relevant game information between users and or others e.g. intervention counselors or parents of users . In some embodiments user interface may interface with various social networks or web services such as Facebook or Twitter.

User interface may be usable e.g. by a user for performing various administrative activities associated with a behavior intervention application or related software. User interface may be usable for performing game management activities including adding deleting and or modifying users and teams. User interface may be usable for performing game management activities including adding deleting and or modifying game elements such as expeditions storylines content challenges badges awards points and or currency exchange rates. User interface may be usable for accessing or modifying user related information including viewing and or printing reports concerning physical activities weight and other information. User interface may be usable for sending or receiving messages pictures videos in game communications or other information e.g. between users. User interface may be usable for accessing or modifying historical information about a user and or related game information such as a user s progress during an expedition.

User interface may be usable e.g. by a user for viewing expedition progress for one or more users. For example user interface may display a table or chart containing progress or status information for users associated with a group a team a level or a region. Exemplary progress or status information may include a user name a user identifier UID a user level a points amount a points goal a raw complete value a final or total expedition progress and or a total points goal.

In some embodiments a user e.g. an administrator with appropriate privileges may modify progress or status information associated with one or more users. For example if an administrator learns that a user completed an expedition but a technical malfunction e.g. a phone or software problem prevented progress information from being updated then the administrator may update the progress information manually.

In step information regarding characteristics and or activities of a user may be received. The user may be associated with a medical condition or an age group. For example the user may be associated with leukemia diabetes cancer a gland disorder a dietary deficiency or a cardiovascular disease. In another example the user may be associated with an age group such as children adolescents young adults adults or seniors.

In some embodiments receiving information regarding characteristics and or activities of the user may include inputting information via a text file a user interface data storage or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the information regarding characteristics and or activities of a user includes information about diet blood pressure blood sugar medications biometrics physical activities weight height age genetics mental health and physical motion information associated with the user. For example a user may input a recorded number of steps from a Bluetooth enabled pedometer along with a blood pressure reading before during and or after the activity.

In step an action for promoting behavioral intervention may be determined using the received information and predetermined health information associated with the medical condition or the age group. For example an action for promoting behavioral intervention may be determined based on predetermined health information associated with the user or other evidence such as information provided by physician or the user.

In some embodiments the action for promoting behavioral intervention may include a physical recommendation a diet recommendation a biometrics analysis a physiological or emotional recommendation or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments determining the action for promoting behavioral intervention may include selecting an action for promoting behavioral intervention from a plurality of preconfigured actions for promoting behavioral intervention and modifying the length or amount of the action so as to not exceed a target goal based on the received information and the predetermined health information. For example a user may be a child of age 7 and a survivor of ALL. The predetermined health information associated with the user may indicate that the user should be receiving at least 5 serving of fruits and or vegetable daily. The user data may indicate the user is currently eating 3 servings daily. Using this information a generic behavioral recommendation such as eat more servings of fruits and or vegetables than yesterday may be selected. The selection may be modified such that the behavioral recommendation encourages the user to eat the recommended daily servings. In this example the generic behavioral recommendation may be modified to read eat 2 more servings of fruits and or vegetables than yesterday. 

In some embodiments an action for promoting behavioral intervention may be provided using game mechanics. For example an action may be requesting 2 servings of fruits and or vegetables be eaten. In this example the action may be modified or configured so as to present the request to a user of a game via a storyline driven challenge such as a message appearing during the game stating that The expedition is in trouble because of a food shortage. You should eat 2 servings of fruits and or vegetables in 24 hours to prevent returning to base camp i.e. starting over .

In step the action or information associated with the action may be provided to the user. In some embodiments providing the action to the user may include providing the action or information associated with the action e.g. a health report based on biometric analysis via a user interface a text message a social networking message a phone call an automated voice message or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the user may be enticed to complete or perform the action for promoting behavioral intervention by using game mechanics e.g. provided via an app . In such embodiments the user may be rewarded via the game mechanics in response to completing the action for promoting behavioral intervention.

In some embodiments the game mechanics may include virtual currency a virtual avatar accessory a virtual environment item a gift money a physical item progress in a gaming environment a social acknowledgement or any combination thereof.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the subject matter described herein is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

