---

title: Apparatus and method for executing tasks
abstract: An apparatus for executing a task includes an authenticator to identify a user, a controller that can receive data from the user, and an authorizer to ensure that the user has access to applications used to execute the task. The controller is able to register or de-register the applications and then determine which if the registered applications should be used to execute the task. The controller then converts the data from the user so that it can be used by the application to execute the task. If the user selects a second task to be executed, the controller can determine which of the registered applications is to be used to execute the second task. Methods for executing multiple tasks are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606599&OS=08606599&RS=08606599
owner: Medidata Solutions, Inc.
number: 08606599
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130103
---
People often pursue projects involving data. Businesspeople may have business deals students may have term projects engineers may have building projects and teachers may have courses to plan. Each of these projects may have a life cycle that includes several stages or phases such as strategy planning execution and review. Each of these phases may involve different tasks or workflows and the people performing these tasks may take on different roles within the project. A business deal may involve a project manager a banker a lawyer and an accountant a term project may involve a planner a designer a writer and a builder a building project may involve a project manager a financier a planner an engineer and a technician and a course plan may involve a main teacher a teacher s aide students and a principal. Individuals may sometimes take on multiple roles within a single project.

People or entities pursuing such projects often use computer programs to manage the data. These programs often include a suite of applications and the people or entities may choose a specific application based on the task or workflow that they want to perform. These suites often do not allow users to easily switch between applications for example because they request the users to provide credentials every time they access the application. Moreover sometimes a user wants to view the same data such as a table using different applications such as a word processing application a spreadsheet application and a presentation application but the suite requires the user to open up each application separately which can be very tedious.

Performing a clinical trial to determine the safety and effectiveness of a pharmaceutical drug or medical device is another example of a project that generates much data and that often uses a suite of computer applications to manage the data. In a clinical trial called a clinical study or study in this specification for a drug subjects are given doses of the drug and the subject s reaction to the drug is recorded. For a single drug there may be more than one clinical study each of which may be carried out with many subjects and at a number of different sites. A clinical study also has a life cycle made up of phases and involves different people performing various tasks or workflows or even the same people having multiple roles . The life cycle of a clinical study may include the design phase the execution phase the data collection and analysis phase and the submission phase. The entities involved may include a sponsor a principal investigator PI contract research organization CRO subjects or patients and regulatory authorities. In many cases the sponsor is the drug or device manufacturer such as a pharmaceutical company but the sponsor may also be an academic medical or research center a Federal agency such as the National Institutes of Health NIH or Departments of Defense or Veterans Affairs a clinical research center or a physician or other health care provider. The principal investigator PI leads the study and is often a medical doctor and may also include a research team that comprises doctors nurses social workers and other health care professionals. The clinical study is often administered by the CRO which may be a person or an organization commercial academic or other who is contracted by the sponsor to perform one or more of a sponsor s study related duties and functions. Regulatory authorities which may include the United States Food and Drug Administration FDA and its foreign counterparts may set the rules by which the clinical studies operate and may be the authorities to whom data are submitted to approve the drug or device.

Each of the users or entities involved with a clinical study may perform many different tasks during the stages of the clinical study. Various software programs have been developed to perform these tasks but the programs are often usable for only specific stages of a specific study and for a user s specific roles or permitted uses of that software. If a user wants to perform a different task or take on a different role in a study the user is required to use different programs often needing to provide credentials when accessing each program. Moreover sometimes the same data are accessed viewed or modified using different programs based on the task to be performed or the role being played and it is inefficient and somewhat tedious to access individual programs even when operating on the same data.

Where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the drawings to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Moreover some of the blocks depicted in the drawings may be combined into a single function.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used in a variety of applications. Although the present invention is not limited in this respect the techniques disclosed herein may be used in or with software applications in a variety of fields clinical drug or device studies and other projects in which users may desire to view information in a variety of contexts related to the project. Note also that use of the term data is not intended to be limiting and may include but is not limited to data and or information.

When performing work on a project that involves data a user may need to access several programs or applications relating to that project for example a business deal. The user may need to open a word processing application to prepare specifications or reports a spreadsheet application to calculate the financial aspects of the deal and a presentation application to present the deal to a co worker or adversary. It would be desirable if the user did not need to vertically navigate through each of these applications that is initiate or launch a different application every time he or she wanted to perform a different task or workflow. It may also be possible that the same or common data such as a table is used by the different applications requiring the user to open separate applications depending on the context in which the user is working. It may thus also be desirable to be able to horizontally navigate among these applications and decouple the data from applications that utilize the data so the system can select the way the data are viewed modified or accessed based on the workflow executed by the user.

More specifically within the context of a project such as a clinical study a user may have more than one role to play and most likely has more than one workflow to perform and it would be desirable if the user did not need to vertically navigate through the applications every time he or she wanted to perform a different workflow. Here again horizontal navigation would be more desirable especially in situations in which the same or common data are being used in the different workflows.

To that end embodiments of the present invention allow a user to view data in different ways depending on a number of attributes including but not limited to the role the user is assuming the workflow the user is performing and the project or study or site within a study with which the data are used. The system may identify the study role and workflow chosen by the user and may select the application best suited for the user to execute the workflow. If the user wants to horizontally navigate to a different study role or workflow the system may adapt to present the data within the specific appropriate application.

An objective of these embodiments is to provide a platform as a service PaaS solution which can decouple data from applications and allow a user to horizontally navigate among tasks rather than vertically navigate among applications.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of a workflow execution system according to an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in a user may input data to system which analyzes and processes the data and presents the processed data to the user. A user may be any individual or organization involved in the project such as a manager planner engineer etc. In the context of a clinical study a user may include a CRA a PI a sponsor a CRO or any person or organization that may use workflow execution system .

Server controller may communicate with interface applications authenticator database and authorizer through connections and respectively. The connections may be any type known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to wired for example a cable or wireless and may be short such as within a computer or distant such as connecting two computers over the Internet or other network for example a WAN wide area network or LAN local area network .

Server controller may include an application coordinator that coordinates and processes data transmitted to it from interface and applications . The data may be communicated via adapters and respectively. These adapters may format the data so that coordinator may process it and so that the outputs of server controller are properly formatted or rendered for interface and applications . Coordinator may also interact with authenticator and authorizer . Authenticator may take credential information such as a username and password or biometrics and compare it to the associations stored in database to determine whether the user is allowed to access the system. Once authenticated authorizer then retrieves the information associated with the user such as studies to which the user has access roles available to the user in those studies and workflows available to the user to execute in those studies and roles. These associations may be stored in database . Authorizer may also later check to make sure the user is associated with a specific study role workflow combination that the user selects before server controller accesses the workflow. It should be noted that such secondary authorization may not always be necessary for example if interface and server controller reside in the same computer.

The general operation of an embodiment of workflow execution system will now be described in the context of a clinical study. Specifically workflow execution system may exchange data with users in order to display collect allow access to and or analyze data during the various stages of a clinical study. The data may comprise clinical study data which may include subject data used to evaluate a drug such as blood pressure data heart rate data and metabolism data. The data may also include monitoring data such as metadata associated with the collection of subject data or other data related to the gathering or processing of subject data.

A user may use workflow execution system in the various phases of a clinical trial such as designing a study executing a study collecting and analyzing data and or submitting the data to a regulatory agency. Each of these phases may involve several other tasks or workflows. For example in designing a study a user who may be a sponsor or a CRO may develop a protocol develop case report forms CRFs used to collect the data develop a data management plan and select sites. In executing a study a user who may be a sponsor a CRO or a PI may initiate the sites obtain informed consent from patients screen patients enroll patients assign patients to an arm of a study and develop study procedures. In collecting data a PI may complete CRFs or a sponsor or CRO may perform source data verification data cleaning or database locking. In submitting reports to a regulator a sponsor may collect the CRFs review queries perform audits and prepare other reports. Numerous other tasks or workflows not described herein are likewise included in the present workflow execution system.

In one embodiment of the present invention three main parts are used to accomplish a task or workflow server controller applications and interface . According to one embodiment server controller may identify which applications can perform specific tasks collect data from the users via interface present the data to the applications and or act as a conduit or proxy server between the applications and the user s browser interface controlling which data and corresponding application are displayed and made accessible to a user such as through the browser.

Examples of roles that may be set up in the system include programmers biostatisticians clinical research associate CRA site monitor data manager EDC study builder patient informed consent specialist patient recruitment specialist R D senior manager clinical research coordinator CRC study coordinator vendor CRO manager clinical quality manager pharmacovigilance specialist principal investigator etc.

In general workflows associated with a clinical study correspond to study design study execution data collection and analysis and submission of data to regulatory agencies. Study design may include workflows corresponding to protocol development development of informed consent and case report forms CRFs data management planning site selection and IRB ethics approval. Study execution may include workflows corresponding to investigator meetings site initiation and for each subject tasks related to informed consent screening enrollment randomization and performance of study procedures. Data collection and analysis may include workflows corresponding to data collection CRF completion source data verification data cleaning and database locking. Submission of data to regulatory agencies may include but is not limited to workflows corresponding to CRFs SAS datasets queries audit trails and other reports.

Once verified the system may retrieve which study role workflow combinations are registered to or associated with the user. The retrieval may be accomplished through the execution of software code causing coordinator to communicate with authorizer to retrieve the study role workflow combinations which may be stored in database that are registered to the user. shows dialog prompting the user to choose the study role and workflow from the drop down boxes. shows all of the studies roles and workflows that may be registered to the user. This depiction is for illustration only since typically only one drop down box can be activated at one time. As before a user experience comprised of selection tools other than drop down boxes may accomplish the same purpose and function such as with radio buttons hyperlinks or any other means of receiving a user selection. Depending on the study chosen not all the roles shown may be available and likewise depending on the role chosen not all the workflows shown may be available.

It should be noted that the order of chosen options in is not intended to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the actions can be performed in any appropriate order. For example in the user could first choose from the six available roles and once that role was chosen the associated study and workflow choices would then appear in boldface type in those drop down boxes and the unassociated study and workflow choices may be displayed in a different font or grayed out or not displayed at all. In that situation if Role 2 were chosen then perhaps Studies 1 5 and 8 would be associated and displayed in boldface. Similarly if Role 2 were chosen then before the Study was selected perhaps Workflows 1 6 12 15 26 and 28 would be displayed in boldface.

Once the study role workflow combination is selected workflow execution system may begin to execute the workflow. Each workflow may be associated with an application . These associations may be stored in memory such as cache memory within server controller not shown in or within an external database such as database and accessed through executable software code not shown in . In another embodiment these associations may be published by the applications using publish subscribe messaging patterns also called pub sub patterns by which each application publishes to the other applications and to server controller its identity and the studies roles and workflows that are associated with it. Such associations may be passed as session variables allowing server controller to communicate with applications more efficiently via URLs from interface rather than relying on slower cache memory or database memory .

Examples of applications are software programs associated with clinical studies such as a protocol design program a budgeting program a contract research organization CRO program an electronic data capture EDC program a randomization program a management program and a medical coding program. A protocol design program such as Medidata Solutions Designer may be used to design a clinical study and a study protocol. A budgeting program such as Medidata Grants Manager may be used to determine budgets and allocate resources investigate sites manage compliance risks streamline enrollment and pay investigators. A CRO program such as Medidata CRO Contractor may be used to help sponsors optimize their relationship with their CROs. An EDC program such as Medidata Rave may be used to electronically capture and manage study data. A randomization program such as Medidata Balance may be used to randomize the study and manage the drug supply for the study. A management program such as Medidata CTMS may be used to manage parts of the clinical study including site visits and site payments among other tasks. A medical coding program such as Medidata Coder may be used to set up a centralized coding system. Even though examples of these applications are existing programs the term application is not intended to be limiting and may include a subset of these or similar programs or may be a module of a program or a functional subunit of an application or program.

Each application may also include a number of different workflows. Server controller may take the workflow selected by the user and may identify the application associated with that workflow. Coordinator may then forward the study and role information to the specified application possibly using one of the adapters to format the request to the application. Server controller may then act as an intermediary between the selected application and the user to execute the workflow. Server controller may take the information and or data transmitted from the application and format or render them for interface possibly using adapter . This process may be repeated between the user and the application until the workflow is fully executed or the user otherwise discontinues work on the workflow.

In one embodiment workflow execution system may include service applications that may perform various common service tasks for applications including accessing databases such as data store which may comprise databases and . Applications may be connected to service applications via bus and connection which may be an Internet or other network connection and is the same type of connection as connections . The data transmitted between the user and the applications may be stored in data store and may be made available to each of the applications. Alternatively applications may access data store without using service applications or each application may have its own database not shown to store data that only that application will access. Service applications are shown as a single block connected to applications but they may also be connected to server controller and perform service tasks directly for server controller .

In another embodiment authenticator authorizers may be associated with applications and service applications respectively. These authenticator authorizers may perform both authentication and authorization similar to that performed by authenticator and authorizer . Authenticator authorizers may ensure that the request and data from server controller are genuine especially because the request and data may have been transmitted over the Internet e.g. connections and . Server controller may digitally sign its requests using for example an authentication program and authenticator authorizers may verify the signature for example using information stored in databases . Authenticator authorizers may also ensure that the user is authorized to perform the specific workflow and that each application is authorized to interact with service applications and data store . In general all transactions from section to section of workflow execution system may be authenticated and or authorized but total authentication and authorization may bog the system down so authentication and authorization may be limited to less trustworthy connections.

One of the benefits of the present invention is that a user may not need to directly access any specific application in order to complete a workflow. The user has to know only what workflow is to be executed and the system may determine which application is best suited to execute the workflow. The system may then format the data to be compatible with the application and may render the resulting data for the user in a manner useful to the user. In some cases a workflow may be executed using more than one application and the system is able to carry out such execution by interacting with each of the needed applications. Without the present invention the user would need to know which application or applications was best suited to execute a specific workflow and specially format a request specific to that application.

Another benefit of the present invention is that the system may be flexible scalable and extensible that is applications may be added without the knowledge of the user and without complicated rewriting of software. As an example application may be added to workflow execution system simply by registering the new application with server controller and possibly connecting via adapter . Registration may involve server controller recording the workflows that application can execute as well as the roles that may perform such workflows. Thus a role such as a PI may have dynamically associated with it workflows made possible by the addition of application and all users having the role PI would likewise have access to such additional workflows. Analogously applications may be removed by de registering the application from server controller and the workflows associated with that application would be removed from the various roles.

Another benefit of the present invention is that the applications may be designed to operate in a similar or standard manner so that their interactions with server controller are standardized. Part of this standardization may include providing pub sub messaging patterns discussed above. Such messaging allows workflow execution system to be more flexible and scalable.

The blocks shown in are examples of modules that may comprise workflow execution system and do not limit the blocks or modules that may be part of or connected to or associated with workflow execution system . For example as mentioned before connections may be short within a computer or distant over a network . Adapters are shown within server controller but may be part of applications or may be separate from both the applications and server controller . Similarly adapter is shown within server controller but may be part of interface or may be separate from both the interface and server controller . Authenticator and authorizer are shown outside of server controller but may be within server controller .

Authenticator authorizers are shown as combined blocks but they may be separate blocks like authenticator and authorizer . The various data stores and databases are shown as separate blocks but may reside in memory within the blocks with which they are associated. The blocks in may generally be implemented in software or hardware or a combination of the two.

The following embodiments are described in the setting of clinical studies for drugs or medical devices but it is understood that embodiments of the invention can be used in other fields involving project performance in which data may be presented in different ways to different audiences based on a user s tasks roles jobs functions. For example a user could take advantage of a system in which various workflows are available on different projects depending on the user s role or roles in those projects. As described earlier these projects may involve a business deal a term project a building project and a course plan. More generally a project involving an office suite of applications is contemplated by the present invention.

Reference is now made to which is a flowchart illustrating the general operation of workflow execution system according to an embodiment of the present invention. In operation server controller may register one or more of applications . This may be dynamic as described above and may involve recording the workflows that the applications can execute as well as the roles that may perform such workflows. In operation server controller may authenticate the user such as by requesting credentials e.g. username and password or biometrics see . In operation server controller may determine the combinations of studies roles and workflows available for the authenticated user and present those combinations to the user. In operation server controller may determine the workflow to be executed based on the user s selection as was described above with respect to . In operation server controller may authorize the user to ensure the study role workflow combination selected by the user is associated with that user. This operation may not be used if interface and server controller are within the same computer e.g. if connection is short but if connection is distant such authentication may be desired to ensure that the information from the user was properly communicated to server controller . In operation server controller may determine which application e.g. is to be used to execute the selected workflow. This may be done by accessing database to retrieve the association between the selected workflow and the application or by reviewing the applications pub sub messaging patterns as described above. Such association may include a file path or an address or URL uniform resource locator if the application is not located within the same computer as server controller . A URL as contemplated herein may include a raw URL which may be an address of an object or data and a platform URL which is an abstracted raw URL that may describe the data to be acted upon and the desired action or task to be performed on that data. An example of a platform URL may include design report because that is the desired action. Determining which application is to be used to execute the selected workflow may include converting a platform URL to a raw URL. In operation server controller may initiate the application or call the application via its path address or URL and transmit the user s data to the application as part of the URL. Such information may include the study role workflow combination such that the application can properly initiate the workflow.

The selected application may begin executing the workflow and in operation server controller may receive data from the application. Server controller may then format the data and transmit it to the user in operation . If this is the end of the workflow which is determined in operation server controller returns to operation to await selection of another workflow by the user. If this is not the end of the workflow determined in operation a loop begins in which data are then received from the user in operation . Because interface and server controller may interact over a network server controller may need to authorize the user and the selected workflow again in operation . After that server controller may format the data from the user and transmit it to the application for processing in operation . The loop continues with operations and as described above for server controller to receive data from the application format the data and transmit it to the user and then determine whether the workflow is completed. Besides the operations shown in other operations or series of operations may be used to execute workflows. Moreover the actual order of the operations in the flowchart may not be critical.

In operation hosted application instance B authenticates the request from proxy server for example by using authenticator and checks the digital signature to ensure it came from proxy server . In operation hosted application instance B processes the request from the user then in operation hosted application instance B renders its response using some media type such as HTML XML JSON etc. In operation hosted application instance B may provide in HTML a notice of context or location change which includes metadata that identifies the user s study role and workflow and then returns the request to proxy server .

In operation proxy server renders or formats the request for the common user experience UX and then transmits the response to controller client side code to update the context user experience in operation . This may result in information screen of the user s web browser being updated as well as the user s context e.g. study role and workflow if that also changed.

As discussed above one advantage of the present invention may be the ability to open multiple instances of applications so as to allow for horizontal navigation rather than vertical navigation. Vertical navigation requires a user to open a new application to perform a different task. For example a user may open an email using an email program but then may need to open a word processing program to view an attachment. In contrast using horizontal navigation the user may view the email in the main program and then view the attachment in the same program by opening an instance of the word processing application. This instance may then track and retain the user s context or location.

The task shown in is to fill in context e.g. the current application study environment site and subject in controller client side code which may be rendered on interface . To fill in application controller client side code makes a request for the application from proxy server . Application is shown in as EDC or the electronic data capture application. To fill in study controller client side code makes a request to system hosted application and the selected study may be rendered through an application programming interface API . Also because the connection to this system hosted application may be over the Internet the request may need to be authenticated to ensure that the user has the proper access to the studies. To fill in environment site and subject controller client side code makes a request to hosted application instance which in this case is the EDC application for that information. These may also need authentication but it is less likely since the information is generally within a single application instance.

Within this framework a way of interacting with data is provided whereby data is no longer tied to a specific application from the point of view of the user. A table containing information about patients no longer needs to be viewed in the specific application such as a spreadsheet in which the data were entered for example during patient enrollment. Instead the same table data could be presented to the user based on the workflow being executed patient enrollment data collection and data analysis for example and the user would not need to open up different applications to view the table or data but would only need to specify the workflow being executed and the system would render the information for the user in different ways depending on the workflow.

The following are some examples of how the embodiments of the present invention can be used. A user may want to design a case report form CRF and then validate its use. Conventionally this would involve opening up two applications the form design application such as Medidata Architect to design the form and an electronic data capture EDC application such as Medidata Rave to validate. But both applications use substantially the same data or at least have some data in common that is the form and its information. With the present invention the user would use only one software program. The user would be associated with two roles and at least two workflows as a form designer and as a clinical research coordinator CRC which may oversee data entry . After specifying the designer role in drop down box and the design workflow in drop down box the system would prompt the user to design the form. Then in order to validate the form the user would choose the CRC role in drop down box and the data entry workflow in drop down box and would then be presented with the form to enter data to ensure that the form works. In addition if the user was involved in more than one study then the user could design the form for one study then choose a different study from drop down box and be presented with the form for that study. Conventionally the user would have had to switch files in order to access a form from a different study.

Another example is performing two tasks of collecting data and making a payment to a site. Conventionally this would involve vertically navigating to two applications the data collection or EDC application such as Medidata Rave to collect the data and a clinical trial or study management application such as Medidata CTMS to make the payment. But both applications use substantially the same data or at least have some data in common that is the data collected and the fact that the data have been collected. With the present invention the user would only use one software program but horizontally navigate from the data collection workflow to the site payment workflow.

Another example involves the multiple workflows that can be performed regarding a shipment of drugs going to a study. One workflow may be performed by the shipper who assembles the shipment. A second workflow may be performed at the study site which allows the user to mark the shipment as received or lost. Another example involves the multiple workflows that can be performed regarding the same subject or patient. One workflow may be performed by a clinician to randomize the assignment of the subject in the study. A second workflow may be performed by the subject or patient herself where she may be entering actual clinical study data on her mobile device. In both of these examples multiple workflows can be performed using the same or common data but which previously required two or more different applications to perform them.

In an example of a use of the invention outside of the clinical study environment a user may receive an email with an attached document. Conventionally this user would only be able to view the email in an email application and then would need to switch to a word processing application to view the attachment. But using the invention the user would be able to change the task e.g. from view mail to view document and view the email or the document as desired.

The present invention may provide the following benefits among others. First it may allow users to horizontally navigate between tasks or workflows where server controller remembers the user s context and the same or common data can be used to perform different tasks. The user is unaware of which underlying applications may be accessed to perform the tasks. Moreover all the tasks have a common user interface or user experience thus adding to the perception that a single computer program is being accessed. This contrasts with vertical navigation in which applications had to be started and ended by the user often requiring the user to provide credentials every time a different application was accessed. Second the invention may bring unified security to all the hosted applications. It may do this by identifying a fixed set of roles as described earlier. If the role is principal investigator then that user will be granted access to all applications needed to carry out that role and anybody with that role in a specific study will get the same permissions or authorizations. Previously the user would have to access each application and each application would then need to grant each user the proper security credentials. Third the invention may allow users to access data across multiple patients and multiple studies whereas previously a user would have had to open separate applications or separate instances of applications for different patients or different studies and then close them before going on to the next patient or study.

This invention may be implemented as a platform service detached from individual products or programs and may be implemented over the Internet as a cloud based service. In the clinical study context this means that the platform service can perform all tasks needed to complete a clinical study whereas previously five or more applications would have had to be accessed for such a study. This platform has capabilities for example safety design randomization data collection and study management not just separate applications that may perform parts of these capabilities.

In sum apparatuses and methods are described that may be used to execute tasks or workflows. The server controller acts as an intermediary between an interface and an application or applications. The server controller determines which application is to be used to execute the workflow and converts the data from the interface into a form compatible with the chosen application. Applications may be added and removed dynamically by registering with the server controller and having the workflows executed by the applications identified along with the roles that can access those workflows. Data is decoupled from the applications so that multiple workflows can operate on the same or common data without having the user enter and exit specific applications. Such horizontal navigation may be secured by using authenticators when the user changes contexts. The invention allows for task based rather than application based execution. Roles are defined with specific permissions and workflows so that a user does not have to know the details about which application performs which workflow.

Note that although the methods and apparatuses described herein have been described with respect to clinical studies for drugs they are applicable to clinical studies for other items such as medical devices vaccines and biologics. They are also applicable to systems other than those involving clinical studies that are capable of having different tasks executed without having the user vertically navigate among different applications.

Aspects of the present invention may be embodied in the form of a system a computer program product or a method. Similarly aspects of the present invention may be embodied as hardware software or a combination of both. Aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a computer program product saved on one or more computer readable media in the form of computer readable program code embodied thereon.

For example the computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example an electronic optical magnetic electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any combination thereof.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electromagnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code in embodiments of the present invention may be written in any suitable programming language. The program code may execute on a single computer or on a plurality of computers. The computer may include a processing unit in communication with a computer usable medium wherein the computer usable medium contains a set of instructions and wherein the processing unit is designed to carry out the set of instructions.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

