---

title: Tuning and synthesis of metallic nanostructures by mechanical compression
abstract: The present invention provides a pressure-induced phase transformation process to engineer metal nanoparticle architectures and to fabricate new nanostructured materials. The reversible changes of the nanoparticle unit cell dimension under pressure allow precise control over interparticle separation in 2D or 3D nanoparticle assemblies, offering unique robustness for interrogation of both quantum and classic coupling interactions. Irreversible changes above a threshold pressure of about 8 GPa enables new nanostructures, such as nanorods, nanowires, or nanosheets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180420&OS=09180420&RS=09180420
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09180420
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130530
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 880 886 filed Sep. 13 2010 which application claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 315 270 filed Mar. 18 2010 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a method of making metallic nanomaterials and in particular to a method to tune and synthesize metallic nanostructures by mechanical compression.

Due to the size and shape dependent properties nanoparticles have been successfully used as functional building blocks to fabricate multi dimensional D ordered assemblies for the development of artificial solids e.g. metamaterials with potential applications in nanoelectronic and optic devices. To date fabrications of ordered nanoparticle assemblies have relied on specific interparticle chemical or physical interactions such as van der Waals interactions dipole dipole interaction chemical reactions and DNA templating. The consequent self assembly scenario is the formation of higher dimensional nanoparticle architectures from single nanoparticles. However a need remains for a method to produce chemically and mechanically stable nanostructures which are not possible using current top down and bottom up methods.

The present invention is directed to a method for the tuning or synthesis of metallic nanostructures by mechanical compression comprising providing a film comprising a periodically ordered assembly of metallic nanoparticles in a pressure transmitting medium and applying pressure to the film thereby compressing the periodically ordered assembly of metallic nanoparticles. The metallic nanoparticles preferably comprise a noble metal such as gold or silver. The pressure transmitting medium can be a liquid or polymer. For example the periodically ordered assembly can comprise a face centered cubic mesophase. For example pressure can be applied using a diamond anvil cell piston cylinder device multi anvil cell or embossing machine. The film can be compressed to a pressure below a threshold pressure to reversibly tune the interparticle spacing of the periodically ordered assembly of metallic nanoparticles. Alternatively the film can be compressed to a pressure above the threshold pressure above which the metallic nanoparticles contact coalesce and sinter to synthesize a new nanostructure such as a nanorod or nanowire. The threshold pressure can typically be about 8 GPa. Following release of pressure the new nanostructure can be redispersed in an organic solvent.

The method of the present invention provides a pressure induced phase transformation process to engineer nanoparticle architectures and to fabricate new nanostructured materials. The reversible changes of the nanoparticle unit cell dimension under pressure allow precise control over interparticle separation in 2D or 3D nanoparticle assemblies offering unique robustness for interrogation of both quantum and classic coupling interactions. The fundamental understanding of nanoparticle assembly under pressure provides useful insight for material integration through pressure driven nanofabrication processes.

The present invention is directed to an external pressure induced engineering pathway to convert three dimensional 3D ordered spherical nanoparticle assemblies to one or two dimensional 1D or 2D nanostructures and form ultrahigh density ordered nanostructures. A diamond anvil cell DAC can be used to mechanically compress the nanoparticle assemblies. A DAC consists of two opposing diamonds with a sample compressed between the culets. Pressure can be monitored using a reference material such as ruby fluorescence whose behavior under pressure is known. The uniaxial pressure supplied by the DAC may be transformed into uniform hydrostatic pressure using a pressure transmitting medium. The pressure transmitting medium is enclosed by a gasket and the two diamond anvils. is a schematic illustration of a DAC that can be used for mechanical compression of a nanoparticle assembly. The nanoparticle assemblies can be embedded in a polymer e.g. polystyrene film as the pressure transmitting medium. Liquid silicone oil can be used as the pressure transmitting medium. Transparency of the DAC allows in situ optical characterizations of interparticle spacing based physics and monitoring of the structural evolution of nanoparticle assembly using synchrotron x ray scattering. In particular in situ small SAXS and wide angle WAXS synchrotron X ray scattering measurements on the same spot of a sample under pressure coupled with transmission electron microscopy TEM enable reconstruction of the ordering of nanoparticles to form nanorods and nanosheets upon mechanical compression. Other moderate and high pressure compression devices can also be used such as piston cylinder devices multi anvil cells or embossing machines.

External pressure provides an efficient process to engineer nanoparticle assemblies and to fabricate new complex nanoparticle architectures without relying on specific chemical and physical interaction. The reversible changes of the nanoparticle unit cell dimension under pressure allow precise control over interparticle separation in 2D or 3D nanoparticle assemblies. Under high pressure the nanoparticles start to sinter. The initial nanoparticle assembly framework including orientations dimensions is crucial for the nanoparticle phase transformation and formation of complex nanostructures. The mechanical flexibility of polymer medium provides sufficient compressibility to maintain the ordered mesophase and the favorable orientation while the unit cell dimension shrinks.

As an example of the present invention ordered spherical gold or silver nanoparticle films with face centered cubic fcc mesophase were compressed with a DAC. In situ high pressure small angle x ray scattering measurements show that gradual elevation of external pressure from atmospheric pressure to 8 9 gigapascal GPa causes reversible shrinkage of interparticle spacing. Pressures the threshold pressure of 8 9 GPa and 13 GPa drive the nanoparticles to coalesce typically forming 1D nanostructures nanorods or nanowires and their ordered hexagonal arrays with p6 mm symmetry. Dispersion of the sintered nanostructures in organic solvents results in uniform single nanostructures that can re assemble into ordered arrays upon solvent evaporation. This method is a simple yet efficient nanoengineering process to tune nanoparticle assemblies and fabrications of new complex nanoparticle architectures.

Spherical metal nanoparticles were synthesized using a standard one phase method. The metals used were gold and silver. The gold nanoparticles formed had an average diameter of 5.2 nm with a standard deviation of 4.2 . The silver nanoparticles formed also had an average diameter of approximately 5 nm. The fcc ordered gold or silver nanoparticle polymer films were fabricated through a solvent evaporation process on silicon wafers. In this process gold or silver nanoparticles approximately 80 mg and 20 mg of polystyrene with a molecular weight of 1.7 k were dissolved in 1 mL of a solvent such as toluene. Alternatively poly methyl methacrylate PMMA was used as the matrix instead of polystyrene. Ordered nanoparticle films were formed upon solvent evaporation by spin coating or casting on silicon wafers.

At a high spin rate 2000 rpm the nanoparticle films were formed with thin thickness 0.4 1.5 m . A piece of the nanoparticle film about 100 150 m was freed from the substrate and loaded directly into a DAC for in situ pressure measurement. Two gem quality diamond anvils with a culet size of 500 m were aligned to generate pressure. A stainless steel gasket was pre indented and the thickness reduced from 250 m down to 70 m. A 250 m diameter hole was drilled and served as the sample chamber. Silicone oil was used as the pressure transmitting fluid. The pressure in the diamond cell was determined using a standard pressure dependent ruby fluorescent method. Upon pressure release from 9.4 GPa the sample was carefully removed from the gasket and cleaned by a small amount of solvents for example ethanol toluene and hexane .

In another embodiment at a low spin rate 500 rpm the nanoparticle films were formed with thick thickness. The resultant gold nanoparticles film had an fcc assembled structure with the 110 direction parallel to the substrate. Upon loading of the ordered nanoparticle film into the DAC the film maintained the fcc mesophase and exhibited 110 orientation confirmed by SAXS and microscope measurement. The SAXS pattern and integrated spectrum collected at ambient pressure indicated a pattern specific to fcc mesophase with Fm m space group. The nanoparticle assembly exhibited preferred packing orientation with 110 direction parallel to the substrate thus vertical to the beam line. The unit cell parameter a was calculated to be 104.0 . Representative scanning electron microscope SEM images shown in taken from the surface and cross section of the gold nanoparticle film revealed that the film consisted of 3D ordered assembly or array. Both electron diffraction pattern and fast Fourier transform analyses confirmed that gold nanoparticles were organized in a periodic ordered fcc mesophase with a preferred orientation along 110 direction.

The nanoparticle film was gradually compressed in the DAC from ambient pressure to 13 GPa and gradually released back to ambient pressure at room temperature. The SAXS pattern and integrated spectrum obtained were consistent with a 2D hexagonal mesophase with p6 mm symmetry. The primary peaks were assigned as 100 110 200 210 and 300 reflections. Representative electron microscopic images of the samples after the pressure was released from 13 GPa to ambient pressure show that the ordered fcc spherical nanoparticle superlattice was converted to an ordered nanowire array. The gold nanowire array consists of individual gold nanowires with hexagonal close packing. Representative SEM images of 100 and 110 oriented nanowire mesophases along with their corresponding electron diffraction patterns were consistent with a unit cell with lattice parameter a 81.4 and a uniform minimum center to center spacing between nanowires of 8.1 nm. Based on the packing geometry this corresponds to an ultrahigh nanowire density of approximately 1.7 10nanowires per square centimeter. As shown in obtained SEM images the two end facets of the nanowire bundles were very flat suggesting a constant length of nanowires. Single nanowires can be obtained by dispersion of the nanowire arrays in organic solvents for example toluene . TEM images of the nanowires also showed that the nanowires were uniform in diameter and length. The average diameter is 6.1 nm with a standard deviation of 4.6 . The length is consistent with the distance between the two end faces ranging from 400 nm to 1.5 m depending on the initial film thickness of the ordered nanoparticles. For the thin film short nanowires or nanorods are obtained. High resolution TEM imaging revealed that the gold nanowires were polycrystalline. Along the c axis each nanowire consisted of crystalline nanodomains whose size was close to that of original spherical gold nanoparticles. This indicates that the formation of gold nanowires occurs through sintering of spherical gold nanoparticles to form the nanowire c axis which was further confirmed by TEM studies. By sintering it is meant that the nanowires formed are a coherent bonded mass formed by the nanoparticles without interspersed organic materials. These individual nanowires can form stable colloidal dispersions in organic solvents and re assemble into ordered arrays upon solvent evaporation. Overall the method of the present invention provides greater control over both the uniform length of nanowires and the formation of ordered ultrahigh density of nanowire arrays in comparison with chemical methods.

As another example 80 mg of gold nanoparticles and 20 mg of polystyrene with a molecular weight of 2M were dissolved in 1 mL of toluene. At a spin rate 2000 rpm the nanoparticle films were formed with a thin thickness. The resultant gold nanoparticles film had an fcc assembled structure with the 111 direction parallel to the substrate. Then a similar process was carried out as in the prior described example. The nanoparticle film was gradually compressed in the DAC from ambient pressure to 13 GPa and gradually released back to ambient pressure at room temperature. Another example used the same parameters except a spin rate of 500 rpm was used obtaining similar results.

To investigate the nanoparticle assembly pathway and the nanowire formation process in situ high pressure small angle scattering HP SAXS experiments were performed to follow the structure evolution of the nanoparticle films during the compression and release processes. The HP SAXS results suggest the formation of gold nanowire arrays via phase transformation from a 3D fcc mesophase to a 2D hexagonal nanowire mesophase. Before formation of gold nanowires the spherical nanoparticle mesophase exhibits reversible unit cell dimension shrinkage. During this reversible process the interparticle separation dimension can be precisely controlled by external pressure. Representative HP SAXS patterns were collected at varied compression and release pressures. At ambient pressure the gold nanoparticle film exhibited fcc mesophase. In the range from ambient pressure to 8.9 GPa HP SAXS data indicated that the gold nanoparticle assembly remained in the fcc structure with 110 orientation. As the pressure was increased to 8.9 GPa all the HP SAXS peaks shifted slightly to higher 2 lower d spacing indicating shrinkage in the unit cell dimension. When the pressure was gradually released all peaks returned to their starting positions. Thus the change of the unit cell dimension is reversible between ambient pressure and 8.9 GPa. This reversible behavior was further verified on the d spacing changes as shown in and the constancy of the d spacing ratio R as shown in at varied pressures. Below 8.9 GPa R stays constant and close to the theoretical value of R d d square root over 3 11 0.522 for an fcc mesophase. The lattice constant shrinks from 104 at ambient pressure to 91 at 8.9 GPa and returns to 103 when the pressure is completely released. Consequently the interparticle separation distance along 110 direction varied reversibly between 74 and 64 . Below 8.9 GPa the nanoparticles were not connected. This was evidenced by the fact that the closest center to center particle distance was 64.4 at 7.7 GPa slightly larger than the diameter of 5.2 nm of the gold nanoparticle.

The nanoparticle assembly exhibited an intermediate structure that cannot be assigned as either fcc or 2D hexagonal during the course of increasing the hydrostatic pressure to 8.9 GPa increasing the pressure non hydrostatically to 13 GPa and then decreasing the pressure to 7.7 GPa. Therefore the unit cell dimension changes are irreversible during this pressure course. HP SAXS data show that all the peaks shift to lower 2 higher d spacing rather than a continuous shift to lower d spacing. This suggests that a structure transformation had taken place. More importantly the d spacing ratio R moves away from the theoretical value of 0.522 down to approximately 0.51 further confirming a structural transformation. When the pressure was released to 7.7 GPa all the HP SAXS peaks continue to shift to lower 2 instead of reversibly returning to their original positions. Below 7.7 GPa the d spacing ratio further decreases down to approximately 0.5 the theoretical d dratio for 2D hexagonal mesophase. In addition the HP SAXS patterns are consistent with 2D hexagonal mesophase.

In addition to in situ HP SAXS TEM experiments were performed to follow the nanostructure changes. The TEM results further confirm that gold nanowires are formed through spherical nanoparticle sintering. Upon exposure to pressures above 8.9 GPa the formation of numerous gold nanoparticle dimers trimers and nanorods was observed. High resolution TEM images shown in indicate that the nanoparticles seamlessly sinter together along the nanowire c axis which distinguishes them from previously reported 1D nanoparticle nanostructures in which the nanoparticles are connected through organic ligands that are chemically bonded to each neighboring nanoparticle. TEM images indicate that gold nanoparticles sinter after applied pressures greater than 8.9 GPa. Continuous compression along 110 up to 13 GPa leads to the formation of nanorods and nanowires.

In general the DAC is capable of maintaining a hydrostatic environment of loaded samples to pressure as high as approximately 9 10 GPa. Above this threshold generation of deviatoric stress results in a pressure gradient vertically across the sample. This nonhydrostatic stress can be evaluated through quantitative texture analysis by unraveling 2D HP SAXS patterns Debye Scherrer rings into Cartesian cake plots of azimuthal angle as a function of 28. There is an evident waviness at pressure above 8.9 GPa indicative of the generation of a nonhydrostatic stress field during compression of the nanoparticle film.

Based on these experimental results the formation of well ordered 1D metallic nanostructures and their order arrays can be understood as shown in below 8.9 GPa the sample is compressed under a hydrostatic pressure field. The isotropic pressure applied uniformly through all directions to the nanoparticle assembly causes the fcc unit cell dimension to shrink uniformly. The fcc mesophase and its 110 orientation are retained. For pressures above 8.9 GPa a nonhydrostatic stress is generated and applied perpendicularly to the nanoparticle film. Due to the 110 orientation of the nanoparticle mesophase nanoparticles along 110 direction receive much greater stress than other crystallographic directions. Thus the nanoparticle sintering preferentially occurs along 110 direction. Continuous compression to 13 GPa drives the spherical nanoparticles to touch and finally sinter into 1D nanostructures nanorods and nanowires along the 110 direction. Ultimately bundles or arrays of well oriented nanowires with the c axis along the former fcc 110 direction are formed.

In addition to the favorable orientation it is noted that the initial nanoparticle assembly framework is crucial for the nanoparticle phase transformation and formation of nanowires. The mechanical flexibility of polystyrene matrices provides sufficient compressibility to maintain the ordered fcc mesophase and the favorable orientation while the unit cell dimension shrinks. In a pure gold nanoparticle fcc mesophase formed without using polystyrene matrices the formation of nanowires was not observed. This may be due to the collapse of the fcc nanoparticle mesophase under high pressure. Furthermore in an ordered gold nanoparticle silica fcc mesophase nanowires could not be obtained. This may be because the rigid condensed silica layer between gold nanoparticles prevents adjacent nanoparticles from sintering.

As another example films of spherical Ag nanoparticle were compressed to tune the nanoparticle assemblies and synthesize1D Ag nanostructures. shows electron microscopy images of the periodically ordered silver nanoparticle starting material. is a TEM image of the starting silver nanoparticle assembly. The inset shows that the size distribution of the silver nanoparticles is very narrow with an average size of about 5 nm. is a high resolution TEM image of the silver nanoparticles showing that the silver nanoparticles are faceted with 111 face exposure.

The invention being thus described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the same may be varied. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

