---

title: Output processing method and output apparatus for setting a page-turning procedure in association with image data, and storage medium storing instructions for output apparatus
abstract: An output processing method used in an output apparatus which includes an output section configured to output at least one image based on at least one image data which has been acquired by an image-data acquiring device includes: acquiring a staple position of the at least one image which has been set in the at least one image data; setting a page-turning procedure which is an operating procedure for changing an image to be outputted to the output section to one of a subsequent image and a previous image based on the staple position; outputting the at least one image to the output section; receiving: an output according to the page-turning procedure; and changing the at least one image which has been outputted to the output section in accordance with the input according to the page-turning procedure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092702&OS=09092702&RS=09092702
owner: BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09092702
owner_city: Nagoya-Shi, Aichi-Ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130702
---
The present application claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 148309 filed on Jul. 2 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to an output processing method for outputting an image based on image data an output apparatus and a storage medium storing instructions for the output apparatus.

In Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2003 46700 a technology for acquiring image data by a method such as scanning and outputting an image based on the image data which has been acquired to an output apparatus has been disclosed. The image data of the image which is to be outputted to the output apparatus is image data of a PDF portable document format file format.

An object of the present invention is to provide a technology which enables to improve an operability of an output apparatus for acquiring an output of an image in which a staple position desired by a user is reflected based on image data which has been acquired by a method such as scanning.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided an output processing method used in an output apparatus which includes an output section configured to output at least one image based on at least one image data which has been acquired by an image data acquiring device the method including acquiring a staple position of the at least one image which has been set in the at least one image data setting a page turning procedure which is an operating procedure for changing an image to be outputted to the output section to one of a subsequent image and a previous image based on the staple position outputting the at least one image to the output section receiving an input according to the page turning procedure and changing the at least one image which has been outputted to the output section in accordance with the input according to the page turning procedure.

According to the output processing method in accordance with the aspect of the present invention the page turning procedure is set based on the staple position which has been set in the image data acquired by the image data acquiring device and by an operation according to the page turning procedure an image which is to be outputted to the output section is changed. Namely a user is capable of changing the image which has been outputted to the output section to one of the subsequent image and the previous image by the page turning operation based on the staple position and it is possible to improve an operability of the output apparatus.

As shown in a communication system includes a cellular phone an MET abbreviation for Multifunction Peripheral a first access point a web server and a base station . The cellular phone and the MFP have a function as a known wireless LAN local area network terminal equipment. Moreover the MFP is a multifunction peripheral having functions such as a printer function a scanner function a copy function and a facsimile function. The first access point has a function as a known wireless LAN access point. The web server is a device which provides functions and data possessed by the web server to client devices in a network. The cellular phone is an example of an output apparatus computer . The MFP is an example of an image data acquiring device.

The cellular phone and the first access point are capable of wireless communication data communication using radio waves conforming to an infrastructure mode of a wireless LAN method a mode of communicating data by a plurality of wireless LAN terminal equipments via access points . In other words the cellular phone is capable of communicating data to the MFP via the first access point by making an access to the first access point to be in a state of being capable of the wireless communication conforming to the infrastructure mode of wireless LAN. As an example of the wireless LAN method a method of communication stipulated by IEEE 802.11a b g n standards can be cited.

A configuration of the cellular phone will be described below. The cellular phone includes mainly a CPU Central Processing Unit a storage section a wireless transceiving section a wireless antenna section a button input section a panel a cellular phone transceiving section a cellular phone antenna section an acceleration sensor and a tilt sensor .

The CPU executes processing according to computer programs stored in the storage section . In the description hereinafter the CPU which executes computer programs such as a scan application and a viewer application will also be referred to only by a computer program name in some cases. For instance the scan application means the CPU which executes the scan application in some cases. The CPU is an example of a processing section.

The storage section is formed by a combination of a RAM abbreviation for Random Access Memory a ROM abbreviation for Read Only Memory a flash memory a HDD abbreviation for Hard Disc and a buffer in the CPU . The storage section has an image file storage area and stores the computer programs . Image files of formats such as a PDF portable document format are stored in the image file storage area . An image file including at least one image data scanned by the MFP can be cited as an example of the image file. The image file includes at least one image data and various types of setting information. The computer programs include the scan application the viewer application and an operating system . The scan application is an application for the CPU of the cellular phone to make the MFP execute a scan processing. The viewer application is an application for making the CPU execute a processing of displaying an image on the panel based on image data stored in the image file storage area

The operating system is a computer program which provides basic functions to be used by the scan application and the viewer application . The operating system includes computer programs such as a computer program for making the cellular phone transceiving section execute telephonic conversation and a computer program for making the wireless transceiving section execute the wireless communication . Moreover the operating system is a computer program which provides an API abbreviation for Application Programming Interface for each computer program to acquire information which has been computed by sensors such as the acceleration sensor and the tilt sensor or for each computer program to give instructions to various hardware.

Moreover the storage section includes the image file storage area . The image file storage area is an area in which a plurality of image files are stored 

The wireless transceiving section carries out the wireless communication conforming to the infrastructure mode of the wireless LAN via the wireless antenna section . Moreover the cellular phone transceiving section carries out a wireless communication conforming to a method of cellular phone communication with the base station via the cellular phone antenna section . Moreover by sections such as the wireless transceiving section and the cellular phone transceiving section digital signals forming various data are transmitted and received.

The panel includes a display screen which displays various functions of the cellular phone . The panel is an example of an output section. The button input section has a touch sensor and is formed integrally with the panel . Moreover the button input section detects an approximation to and a contact with the panel of an input medium and receives a button operation by the user. Furthermore the button input section detects a sliding direction in a state that the input medium is approaching or is in contact with the panel and receives a flick operation by the user. The acceleration sensor is a sensor which measures an acceleration of the cellular phone by detecting a change in a position of a weight. The tilt sensor is a sensor which measures an angle of tilting by which the cellular phone is tilted with respect to a horizontal plane by detecting an angular velocity. The button input section the acceleration sensor and the tilt sensor are examples of a sensor.

An operation of the cellular phone according to a first embodiment will be described below. In the cellular phone a processing for acquiring a plurality of image data from a plurality of documents by a scanner of the MFP is carried out by using the scan application . Concretely a flow for acquiring the plurality of image data will be described below by using .

At step S the CPU sets a staple position which has been selected by the user. To elaborate the CPU makes the panel display a selection button for selecting the staple position of a document to be scanned. Moreover the CPU sets the staple position according to the button that has been selected by the user.

At step S the CPU transmits a command for executing a scan processing based on the staple position that has been set to the MFP . The MFP in response to the command which has been received scans a plurality of documents which has been set on a document feed tray and generates a plurality of image data. At step S the CPU acquires the plurality of image data from the MFP and saves the plurality of image data which has been acquired in the image file storage area . At this time the plurality of image data is saved in the image file storage area as page data indicating each page of an image file. At step S the CPU associates information indicating the selected staple position with the image data which has been acquired and saves in the image file storage area . At this time the information indicating the staple position is saved in the image file storage area as setting information included in the image file.

An image based on the image data acquired as mentioned above is displayed on the panel by using the viewer application and the image displayed on the panel is changed one by one by a page turning operation by the user. A flow for carrying out the display of the image on the panel based on the image data and the change of the image based on the page turning operation will be described below concretely while referring to . At step S the CPU reads from the image file storage area the information indicating the staple position which has been stored in the image file storage area and associated with the image data of the image to be displayed.

At step S in accordance with the information indicating the staple position which has been read the CPU displays a next button and a previous button on the panel . The next button is a button for forwarding an image displayed on the panel to a subsequent image and the previous button is a button for returning the image displayed on the panel to a previous image. The display of the next button and the previous button on the panel by the CPU is carried out according to a table shown in .

Concretely in a case that the staple position is set to be left as shown in the CPU displays the next button on a display portion near a left side of the display screen of the panel and displays the previous button on a portion near a right side of the display screen of the panel . On the other hand in a case that the staple position is set to be right the CPU displays the next button on the portion near the right side of the display screen of the panel and displays the previous button on the portion near the left side of the display screen of the panel . Moreover in a case that the staple position is set to be top as shown in the CPU displays the next button on a portion near an upper side of the display screen of the panel and displays the previous button on a portion near a bottom side of the display screen of the panel . On the other hand in a case that the staple position is set to be bottom the CPU displays the next button on the portion near the bottom side of the display screen of the panel and displays the previous button on the portion near the top side of the display screen of the panel . The next button and the previous button are examples of an operation button.

At step S the CPU determines a page forwarding direction and a image returning direction by a flick operation based on the staple position which has been read. Concretely as shown in the CPU determines the page forwarding direction by a flick operation to be a staple direction from a center of the panel toward the staple position which has been read and determines the page returning direction by a flick operation to be a direction opposite to the staple direction. In other words the CPU determines the page forwarding direction and the page returning direction such that a page is forwarded when a flick direction coincides with the staple direction and the page is returned when the flick direction is opposite to the staple direction.

Concretely in a case that the staple position has been set to be left the CPU determines the page forwarding direction by a flick operation to be a leftward direction and the page returning direction by a flick operation to be a rightward direction. On the other hand in a case that the staple position has been set to be right the CPU determines the page forwarding direction by a flick operation to be the rightward direction and the page returning direction by a flick operation to be the leftward direction. Moreover in a case that the staple position has been set to be top the CPU determines the page forwarding direction by a flick operation to be an upward direction and the page returning direction by a flick operation to be a downward direction. On the other hand in a case that the staple position has been set to be bottom the CPU determines the page forwarding direction by a flick operation to be the downward direction and the page returning direction by a flick operation to be the upward direction.

In other words at steps S and S the CPU determines the page turning procedure which is an operating procedure for changing the image to be displayed on the panel to the subsequent image or the previous image based on the staple position which has been read at step S as shown in the table in . A relationship shown in the table in may be stored as a table in the storage section and read by the CPU from the storage section or may be programmed in advance in the viewer application

At step S the CPU sets a variable i corresponding to a page number of the image to be displayed on the panel to be 1. At step S the CPU displays an image which has the same page number as the variable i on the panel . Page numbers are set to the plurality of image data which has been scanned in an order of scanning and the page number of the image data which has been scanned first among the plurality of image data is 1. Therefore in a case that the variable i is set to be 1 an image based on the image data which has been scanned first is displayed on the panel

At step S the CPU judges whether the next button has been pressed or not. In a case that the next button has not been pressed NO at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU judges whether the page forwarding direction which has been determined and the flick direction are same or not. In other words the CPU judges whether the flick operation has been carried out in the page forwarding direction or not. In a case that the flick operation has not been carried out in the page forwarding direction NO at step S the process advances to step S.

At step S the CPU judges whether the cellular phone has been shaken or not by a specific amount. Concretely the CPU acquires the acceleration of the cellular phone from the acceleration sensor by using the API and judges whether the acquired acceleration exceeds a threshold value or not. In a case that the acquired acceleration exceeds the threshold value the CPU judges that the cellular phone has been shaken by the specific amount and in a case that the acquired acceleration does not exceed the threshold value the CPU judges that the cellular phone has not been shaken by the specific amount. Moreover in a case that the cellular phone has been shaken by the specific amount YES at step S the process advances to step S. Moreover in a case that the next button has been pressed YES at step S or in a case that the flick operation has been carried out in the page forwarding direction YES at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU adds 1 to the variable i and sets a new variable i. Next the process advances to step S.

On the other hand in a case that the cellular phone has not been shaken by the specific amount NO at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU judges whether the previous button has been pressed or not. In a case that the previous button has not been pressed NO at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU judges whether the page returning direction which has been determined and the flick direction are same or not. In other words the CPU judges whether the flick operation has been carried out in the page returning direction or not. In a case that the flick operation has not been carried out in the page returning direction NO at step S the process returns to step S.

On the other hand in a case that the flick operation has been carried out in the page returning direction YES at step S the process advances to step S. Moreover in a case that the previous button has been pressed YES at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU subtracts 1 from the variable i and sets a new variable i. Next the process returns to step S.

In the cellular phone according to the first embodiment the procedure for turning the page is changed based on the information indicating the staple position which has been set in the image data of the image to be displayed on the panel . Concretely the page forwarding direction and the page returning direction by the flick operation are determined based on the information indicating the staple position which has been set and the page forwarding direction and the page returning direction are determined such that the page forwarding direction by the flick operation coincides with the staple direction from a center of the panel toward the staple position and the page returning direction by the flick operation is a direction opposite to the staple direction. Therefore in a case that the user wants to change the image displayed on the panel to the subsequent image the user slides an input medium such as a finger in the staple direction and in a case that the user wants to return the image displayed on the panel to the previous image the user slides the input medium in the direction opposite to the staple direction. To other words by sliding the input medium in a manner similar to flipping a plurality of stapled manuscripts the user can change the image displayed on the panel one after another. Accordingly the user is capable of carrying out the page turning operation intuitively with respect to the image displayed on the panel .

Moreover in the cellular phone according to the first embodiment display positions of the next button and the previous button are changed based on the information indicating the staple position which has been set. Concretely the next button is displayed on a portion of the panel on a side corresponding to the staple position and the previous button is displayed on a portion of the panel on a side opposite to the staple position. In other words by operating the button positioned in the direction in which the user wants to turn over the plurality of stapled manuscripts the user can turn aver the images displayed on the panel . Accordingly the user is capable of carrying out the page turning operation intuitively with respect to the image displayed on the panel .

Moreover in the cellular phone according to the first embodiment it is possible to carry out the page turning operation with respect to the image displayed on the panel by a procedure which is different from the procedure determined based on the information indicating the staple position. Concretely by shaking the cellular phone by a specific amount the user can change the image displayed on the panel to the subsequent image. In other words it is possible to carry out the page turning operation irrespective of the staple position. Accordingly the user is capable of carrying out the page turning operation by a number of methods and it is convenient for the user.

An operation of a cellular phone according to a second embodiment will be described below. Since a configuration of a communication system including the cellular phone is same as the configuration of the communication system in the first embodiment the description thereof will be omitted here.

In the cellular phone according to the second embodiment a plurality of images are displayed on the panel by using the viewer application and by the page turning operation the plurality of images displayed on the panel are changed sequentially. Concretely a flow for displaying the plurality of images on the panel and changing the images based on the page turning operation will be described below by usinig .

Since contents of steps of the flow shown in are same as the contents of the steps of the flow shown in except for steps S S and S contents of the steps S S and S will be described below. After the processing at step S at step S the CPU displays images having page numbers same as the variable i and the variable i 1 on the panel based on the staple position according to the table shown in . In other words the CPU displays on the panel two images so that a left page and a right page or an upper page and a lower page of the plurality of manuscripts stapled at a predetermined staple position are displayed at a time two page spread state .

Concretely in a case that the staple position is set to be left the CPU displays a predetermined image and an image subsequent to the image so that the image and the image are arranged horizontally in a direction from a left side toward a right side of the panel . In other words as shown in the CPU displays the predetermined image in an area on the left side of the panel and displays the subsequent image in an area on the right side of the panel .

Moreover in a case that the staple position is set to be right the CPU displays the predetermined image and the subsequent image so that the image and the image are arranged horizontally in a direction from the right side of the panel toward the left side of the panel . In other words the CPU displays the predetermined image in the area on the right side of the panel and displays the subsequent image in the area on the left side of the panel .

Moreover in a case that the staple position is set to be top the CPU displays the predetermined image and the subsequent image so that the image and the image are arranged vertically in a direction from an upper side toward a lower side of the panel . In other words as shown in the CPU displays the predetermined image in an area on the upper side of the panel and displays the subsequent image in an area on the lower side of the panel . Moreover in a case that the staple position is set to be the bottom the CPU displays the predetermined image and the subsequent image so that the image and the image are arranged vertically in a direction from the lower side toward the upper side of the panel . In other words the CPU displays the predetermined image in the area on the lower side of the panel and displays the subsequent image in the area on the upper side of the panel . Next the process advances to step S.

Moreover in a case that the next button has been pressed YES at step S in a case that the flick operation has been carried out in the determined page forwarding direction YES at step S or in a case that the cellular phone has been shaken by a specific amount YES at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU adds to the variable i and sets a new variable i. Next the process returns to step S. Accordingly two pages are forwarded by each page forwarding operation.

In a case that the previous button has been pressed YES at step S or in a case that the flick operation has been carried out in the determined page returning direction YES at step S the process advances to step S. At step S the CPU subtracts 2 from the variable i and sets a new variable Next the process returns to step S. Accordingly two pages are returned by each page returning operation.

Even in the cellular phone according to the second embodiment the page turning procedure has been set based on the information indicating the staple position similar to the cellular phone according to the first embodiment. Accordingly even in the cellular phone according to the second embodiment the user can perform the page turning operation intuitively with respect to the image displayed on the panel .

Moreover in the cellular phone according to the second embodiment it is possible to carry out the page turning operation with respect to the image displayed on the panel by a procedure which is different from the procedure determined based on the information indicating the staple position similar to the cellular phone according to the first embodiment. Concretely the image displayed on the panel is changed to the subsequent image in a case that the cellular phone is shaken by the specific amount. Accordingly even in the cellular phone according to the second embodiment the user is capable of carrying out the page turning operation by a number of methods and it is convenient for the user.

Furthermore in the cellular phone according to the second embodiment the two consecutive images are displayed on the panel in the two page spread state corresponding to the information indicating the staple position. In other words the two images are displayed on the panel in a state that the plurality of documents stapled in accordance with the staple position which has been set are spread practically. Accordingly the user can view the images displayed on the panel with the same feeling as viewing the plurality of documents stapled according to the staple position 

In the embodiments described above the image data of the image to be displayed on the panel by using the viewer application is data which has been acquired from the MFP . However it is possible to acquire the image data by various methods. For instance the image data may be acquired from a non volatile memory which has been inserted in a memory slot not shown in the diagram or may be acquired from the web server .

Moreover in the embodiments described above the page turning operation has been carried out by the flick operation. However the page turning operation may be carried out by tilting the cellular phone . Concretely the page turning operation may be carried out such that a page is forwarded when a tilting direction which is a direction in which the cellular phone is tilted coincides with the staple direction and a page is returned when the tilting direction is opposite to the staple direction. Incidentally the tilting direction includes a direction from a mounting surface of a casing of the cellular phone on which the panel is installed toward a non mounting surface of the casing of the cellular phone on which the panel is not installed and a direction from the non mounting surface toward the mounting surface. The direction from the mounting surface toward the non mounting surface may also be referred to as a first tilting direction and the direction from the non mounting surface toward the mounting surface may also be referred to as a second tilting direction.

Concretely in a case that the staple position has been set to be left an arrangement may be made as follows. Namely when the cellular phone is tilted such that a left side of the panel as viewed from the user is directed toward the first tilting direction the page forwarding operation is carried out and when the cellular phone is tilted such that the left side is directed toward the second tilting direction the page returning operation is carried out. On the other hand in a case that the staple position has been set to be right an arrangement may also be made as follows. That is when the cellular phone is tilted such that a right side of the panel as viewed from the user is directed toward the first tilting direction the page forwarding operation is carried out and when the cellular phone is tilted such that the right side is directed toward the second tilting direction the page returning operation is carried out. Moreover in a case that the staple position has been set to be top an arrangement may also be made as follows. Namely when the cellular phone is tilted such that a tap side of the panel as viewed from the user is directed toward the first tilting direction the page forwarding operation is carried out and when the cellular phone is tilted such that the top side is directed toward the second tilting direction the page returning operation is carried out. On the other hand in a case that the staple position has been set to be bottom an arrangement may also be made as follows. That is when the cellular phone is tilted such that a lower side of the panel as viewed from the user is directed toward the first tilting direction the page forwarding operation is carried out and when the cellular phone is tilted such that the bottom side is directed toward the second tilting direction the page returning operation is carried out. By making such arrangement the user can change the image displayed on the panel one after another by tilting the cellular phone in the same manner as turning over the plurality of stapled documents. Accordingly the user is capable of carrying out the page turning operation intuitively with respect to the image displayed on the panel .

Moreover in a case of setting the page forwarding operation based on the information indicating the tilting direction of the cellular phone the page forwarding operation may be set when the cellular phone is tilted in the first tilting direction and thereafter the cellular phone is returned to an original position namely to the second tilting direction. Or when the cellular phone is turned in the first tilting direction the page forwarding direction may be set based on the turning direction. Furthermore when the cellular phone is tilted in a vertical direction namely in a direction of gravitational force the page forwarding operation may be set based on the direction of gravitational force.

Incidentally it is possible to detect the tilting direction of the cellular phone by various sensors such as the acceleration sensor and the tilt sensor .

Moreover in the embodiments described above the page turning operation has been carried out when the cellular phone is shaken by a specific amount irrespective of the staple position. However it is possible to carry out the page turning operation irrespective of the staple position by various methods. For instance a voice recognition device may be provided to the cellular phone and the page turning operation may be carried out based on the voice recognized by the voice recognition device. Moreover a next button and a previous button of which display locations are not changed according to the staple position may be displayed on the panel and the page turning operation may be carried out by operations to the next button or the previous button provided. Concretely at the time of displaying an image on the panel a next button may be displayed on a lower right corner of the panel and a previous button may be displayed on a lower left corner of the panel as shown in . The next button and the previous button are displayed at the same position without the display positions being changed according to the staple position. Accordingly it is possible to carry out the page turning operation with respect to an image displayed on the panel by a procedure which is different from a procedure determined based on the staple position. When the next button and the previous button are to be displayed on the panel it is desirable not to display the next button and the previous button of which display positions are changed based on the staple position.

Moreover a device which is capable of displaying an image based on image data and changing the displayed image based on the page turning operation is not restricted to the cellular phone . It may also be a device such as a notebook personal computer or a tablet device.

In the cellular phone according to the embodiments described above the CPU executing carries out various processings based on the scan application . However the present invention is not restricted to these embodiments. The CPU may give instructions to carry out various processings to the operating system another system or a hardware configuration based on the scan application

Technology components described in the present specification and diagrams exert technical utility individually or by various combinations and are not restricted to the combinations described in claims at the time of filing the present application. Moreover a technology exemplified in the present specification and diagrams achieves a plurality of objectives simultaneously and has a technical utility by achieving one of the objectives.

Each computer program may be formed by one computer program module or by a plurality of computer program modules. Moreover configurations exemplified in the above embodiments may be other configurations which are replaceable. Such replaceable arrangements are also involved in a category of the present invention. It may be a computer CPU which executes processing based on the computer program scan application or may be a computer which executes processing according to a computer program other than the computer program of the aforementioned embodiments such as an operating system other application and computer program or may be a hardware configuration such as panel which is operated according to instructions from a computer or may be an arrangement in which a computer and hardware are linked. As a matter of course it may be a computer which executes processing by linking processing according to a plurality of programs or a hardware configuration which is operated accordinig to instructions from the computer which executes processing by linking processing based on various computer programs.

