---

title: Explosive blast shield for buildings
abstract: A composite shield comprises a panel including an outer thin metallic strike surface layer, a highly strain rate hardening polymer layer and an inner structural armor plate layer. The structural armor plate layer has a multiplicity of traversing ports. The traversing ports have sufficient lateral area to allow deformation of the thin metallic strike surface layer and highly strain rate hardening polymer layer through the structural armor plate layer on the occurrence of explosive blast.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038332&OS=09038332&RS=09038332
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09038332
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130228
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional application 61 723 896 filed Nov. 8 2012 for the invention of an Explosive Blast Shield for Buildings by Alyssa A. Littlestone and Philip J. Dudt. The provisional application is incorporated herein by reference it its entirety.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to a shield to protect static structures and the like from explosive blast. In another embodiment the invention relates to ordnance and an explosive blast shield. More particularly the invention relates to a composite panel having explosive blast pressure mitigating components.

Opportunistic attack against people and buildings by explosives laden cars and trucks has become a challenge in the art of armor. The primary defense against attack on buildings is a perimeter vehicle barrier often a concrete wall. However explosive blast generates a pressure wave that continues past any perimeter barrier. If sufficient explosive is detonated the pressure wave can travel with force to damage a concrete wall generate concrete spall and cause additional property damage and personal injury.

Opportunistic attack on a building usually originates from ground level. Therefore it is not necessary that the entire building facade be covered only that the explosion field of view be at least partially blocked. In addition any vehicle barrier should be sufficiently immobile to stop any incoming vehicle. For this purpose steel reinforced Jersey barriers earthen dikes steel reinforced concrete walls and decorative concrete planters filled with soil have been used. However the pressure wave from an explosive blast continues around the immobile barrier to impact the target building.

There is a continuing need in the art for an explosive blast shield. There is a particular need for a shield that can be free standing or used in combination with a vehicle barrier and that is effective against ground level explosive pressure waves.

A composite shield comprises a panel including a ductile strike layer spaced from an inner structural armor plate layer. The ductile strike layer includes a metallic strike surface layer and a highly strain rate hardening polymer layer filling the space between the strike layer and the structural armor plate. In another embodiment a confined highly strain rate hardening polymer fills the space between a metallic strike surface layer and a second metallic layer. The structural armor plate layer has traversing ports through it. Each traversing port has sufficient lateral area to allow deformation of the ductile strike layer and highly strain rate hardening polymer layer through the structural armor plate layer. The highly strain rate hardening polymer is sensitive to strain rates of 10 second and greater and responds to these strain rates by hardening.

The multi layer panel has blast wave dissipating properties. Any spall from the thin metallic layer and adhered polymer layer are defeated by a spall liner. The shield is used in combination with a vehicle barrier to mitigate an explosive blast wave directed against static structures physical assets and people. The shield is used with or without a vehicle barrier to protect open unconfined areas such as airport pavements port facilities tank farms and open areas where people gather.

The invention is described with reference to the drawing. The drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. The drawing is schematic and is not drawn to scale.

Reference is made to and . A blast shield comprises a composite panel and preferably a spall shield . Frame members and hold the spall shield in laminar orientation and spaced from the composite panel . The blast shield is the assembled combination of each individual component i.e. element comprising element and element which will be described. Blast shield is mounted on and fixedly attached to a vehicle barrier shown here as Jersey barriers and . Heavy bolts and are attached to the concrete Jersey barriers which also include steel reinforcement bars not shown for collision integrity. Frame member is fixedly attached to the Jersey barriers and by means of the heavy steel alloy bolts and and nuts and . Jersey barriers and are immobilized by steel reinforcement bars and driven into the ground G.

Alternative mounting of the blast shield are available. It is preferred that the blast shield be mounted in combination with an immobile vehicle barrier. For example the blast shield may be mounted on an earthen dike an earthen backed concrete wall and the like. The usual objective is to elevate the blast shield so that the building or other asset is shielded as much as possible from direct view of a blast pressure wave. Alternative mounting not shown includes frame member placed in contact with the ground G and immobilized with steel reinforcing bars or the like. This mounting alternative with the blast shield attached to and immobilized on the ground G is referred to herein as free standing. In another free standing mounting alternative blast shield is mounted on a concrete pad not shown in contact with ground G. This mounting alternative may be desirable when ground G soils are loose thin gravelly muddy or otherwise less suitable for mounting purposes. It is well known in the art to select Jersey barriers concrete pads bolts nuts reinforcement bars and the like that are capable of withstanding and remaining immobile following vehicle ramming and explosive blast.

Additional alternative mounting of the blast shield are available. The blast shield may be used to shield portions of buildings. For example the blast shield may be mounted to shield windows and doors. This can be accomplished in several ways. The blast shield may be mounted as a window or door shutter that is opened and closed as desired. The blast shield may be integrally mounted as part of a balcony so that it shields an elevated window or door from direct street view. Architecture panels comprising the shield may be attached to the building frame and positioned as an addition to an exterior surface on portions of static structures.

Laminar blast shield comprises adjacent layers including a ductile thin strike layer and a structural armor plate layer . Structural armor plate layer may be included as a back layer. Preferably the back layer is a spall liner . An effective placement of spall liner is to position it a linear distance from structural armor plate layer with an intervening air space . This configuration with an air space layer is preferable to a configuration in which the blast shield is in direct contact with the structural armor plate layer. The spall liner is considerably more effective in capturing spall if it is spaced from the structural armor plate layer with an air space .

Strike layer is defined as ductile so it must be thin. The ductile strike layer is capable of deforming into the underlying port under explosive blast pressure. The ductile strike layer will finally rupture when the blast pressure pushes the deformed composite to the fracture point on a stress strain curve for the material not shown . According to the invention it is desirable for strike layer to rupture if the explosive force is sufficient to cause this. Rupture takes full advantage of the capability of the materials selected for the strike layer to mitigate blast energy. It is also desirable that the structural armor plate layer survive and that traversing ports subdivide the explosive blast wave further mitigating blast energy.

As seen in ductile strike layer comprises layer made of foil or sheet of ductile metal. At the lower end of the thickness range 0.001 up to 0.006 inches metallic strike layer is described as foil. At 0.006 inches and above metallic strike layer is described as sheet. The range of thicknesses of strike surface layer is 0.001 inch to 0.25 inches.

Examples of suitable materials for the ductile metallic strike surface layer include aluminum e.g. 1100 series 5000 series and 6000 series aluminum sheet. Examples of steel include mild steel austenitic stainless steels such as 316L and 310 and maraging steel. Other examples of suitable materials for layer include 1100 copper and commercially pure grades of titanium. We have used 1100 series aluminum foil having a thickness down to 0.001 inches. In the Example we used aluminum 5052 H32 sheet a ductile aluminum used for sheet metal fabrication. Aluminum 5052 H32 is commercially available in sheet thicknesses in the inventive range and is much stronger than 1100 series aluminum.

Structural armor plate layer comprises a ballistic armor plate having a minimum Young s modulus of 1 million psi and a Poisson s ratio between 0.2 and 0.35. This is achieved with a 0.25 inch to 5 inch thick layer of a ballistic armor plate of a material such as surface hardened steel titanium armor aluminum based ceramic glass reinforced ballistic polymer and the like. Structural armor plate layer has the physical characteristics of rolled homogeneous armor such as that produced to U.S. Military Specification MIL A 12560 and the like. Examples of steel include high carbon content modified steel such as American Iron and Steel Institute AISI grade 4340 Ni Cr Mo steel or 4130 Cr Mo steel. The steel may also be U.S. Military Specification MIL A 46100 or MIL A 12560 ballistic armor. Another steel is HY 130 Ni Cr Mn Mo . In the Example we used a naval steel plate commercially identified as HY 100 Ni Cr Mo Mn . HY 100 has a Young s modulus of 30 million psi and a Poisson s ratio of 0.280. The thickness of steel plate is 0.25 inches or more preferable 0.25 inches to 5 inches. A steel plate thickness of 1 inch to 4 inches has been found to be effective and practical for the intended use. We have also used thick 6061 T6 aluminum plate.

A suitable titanium armor is titanium alloy Ti 6A1 4V. These ballistic armors are commercially available in thicknesses of 0.25 inches to 6 inches.

Attention is drawn to which shows a frontal view of the shield along section in . The structural armor plate layer is modified with traversing ports which pass completely through the armor plate layer . Traversing ports have diameters D providing sufficient lateral area to allow deformation of the ductile strike layer including highly strain rate hardening polymer layer through the structural armor plate layer. Sufficient lateral area is defined by the ductile metallic strike surface layer material. It has been found experimentally that traversing port diameters of 0.25 inches to 2 inches are sufficient to allow deformation of the ductile metal sheet strike surface layer with adhered polymer into and through structural armor plate layer . In general for the same metallic strike surface layer and polymer layer a larger diameter port will allow the supported layer to rupture at a lower blast pressure than a smaller diameter port. This is due to the ductility of the composite layer. Therefore relatively thicker strike surface and polymer layers should be combined with relatively larger diameter traversing ports to provide for deformation of the composite layers into the ports to dissipate blast energy.

Relatively thinner composite layers should be combined with relatively smaller diameter traversing ports. Excluded from the invention are ports that do not have sufficient diameter to allow transport of explosively deformed ductile metallic strike surface layer through them. For example a plurality of smaller diameter perforations may provide considerable free area but they do not allow extension of explosively deformed ductile metallic strike surface layer there through. That is smaller diameter perforations do not allow the mechanism of the invention to function. The mechanism of the invention provides for a multiplicity of functioning diaphragms to dissipate blast force by deforming and rupturing the outer ductile metallic strike surface layer and highly strain rate hardening polymer layer.

Ports are formed by drilling grinding chemical machining and the like. Precision is not necessary for the diameters D of the traversing ports. Depending on the anticipated threat it may be desirable to provide variation in the diameters over the inventive range in the structural armor plate layer . Variation in diameter D provides sequential rupturing of disks. This in combination with the underlying ported structural armor plate layer modifies the blast pressure wave and dampens peak blast wave pressure impacting the target static structure. The ported structural armor plate layer provides additional segmenting and mitigation of the explosive blast wave.

The ductile strike layer comprises a metallic strike surface layer . Between the strike surface layer and the structural armor plate layer is a highly strain rate hardening polymer layer confined by completely filling the volume between the ductile metallic strike surface layer and the structural armor plate layer .

Polymers have been found that are effective against explosive blast pressure penetration and projectile penetration. These polymers demonstrate high strain rate hardening when subjected to high strain rate loading. Impact by a projectile or explosive blast wave are examples of high strain rate loading. The transient rigidity is significantly increased when the polymer is confined. This physical response presents a transient very high strength barrier to a penetrator. The invention exploits this property to mitigate an explosive blast wave.

Highly strain rate hardening polymers include polyurea polyurethane and mixtures of polyurea and polyurethane. Polyurea is preferred. The thickness of highly strain rate hardening polymer is 0.005 to 0.25 inches and the same for polymer layer in .

Polymers of the invention are referred to as highly strain rate hardening and high strain rate sensitivity hardening among other similar variations in the terms. These polymers demonstrate particular sensitivity to strain rate increases. They are sensitive in rapidly hardening at strain rates of about 10 second or greater particularly about 10 second or greater. Generally high strain rate sensitivity hardening polymers useful for the invention demonstrate a Young s modulus of 1000 psi to 4000 psi when tested at slow strain rates. At high strain rates in the range of 1 000 second to 1 000 000 second the confined polymer demonstrates a Young s modulus of 350 000 psi to 500 000 psi or greater. When confined the tensile strength increases from about 2 000 8000 psi to about 80 000 psi. By way of example polyurea useful for the invention is sold commercially under trade names including Carboline POLYCLAD 707 Air Products VERSALINK 1000 and SPI POLYSHIELD Hi E.

Highly strain rate hardening polymers are more fully discussed in inventor s U.S. Pat. No. 7 300 893 for Armor Including A Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer incorporated herein by reference.

With sufficient explosive blast force the outer ductile metal strike surface layer with adhered polymer passes completely through the structural armor plate layer as shown in . At explosive blast pressures fragments of unsupported ductile strike layer separate as spall. Common spall shapes are shown in including a metallic disk f1 disk missing a petal f2 and petal f3 all with adhered polymer. Spall size and disk shape are an artifact of the traversing ports through which segments of the ductile metal sheet strike surface layer was forced by the explosive blast.

The metallic spall traverses air space and impacts spall liner . Air space is not essential but is preferred because the presence of the air space demonstrates better spall capture by slowing spall speed. Although not essential the presence of spall liner is preferred. A spall liner has been found to capture essentially all spall generated by separation of the ductile metallic strike surface layer .

Spall liner may be made of any of the materials known to be useful for this purpose. Spall liner is ordinarily a polycarbonate layer. Polycarbonate is a projectile resisting material with good shock receiving characteristics. In thin sheets polycarbonate stretches on impact making it a good spall liner. In this capacity it prevents traverse of projectile fragments and spall through it. In general the polycarbonate material has a thickness of 0.1 to 0.5 inches preferably 0.1 to 0.3 inches. It has been found that besides the projectile resisting characteristics of the material polycarbonate provides a stiff backing and makes the panel easier to mount. By way of example LEXAN is the trade name of an optically clear polycarbonate sold by SABIC Innovative Plastics Pittsfield Mass. 01201.

Other examples of effective materials useful as spall liners include glass reinforced plastic ultra high molecular weight polyethylene having about 10 000 to 250 000 polyethylene mers per polymer e.g. DYNEEMA and SPECTRA fiber and para aramid fiber e.g. KEVLAR based fiber. These materials are commercially available. Selection of the specific material for use as a spall liner including molecular weight and thickness is an optimization and is within the ability of those trained in the art.

As shown in before the occurrence of explosive blast laminar blast shield includes adjacent layers the ductile metallic sheet strike surface layer and the structural armor plate layer . Spall liner is the back layer. Spall liner is spaced from structural armor plate layer by air space . This blast shield is held in place by frame members and and frame members and . Traversing ports through structural armor plate layer are shown.

In armor plate layer and ports correspond with armor plate layer and ports in and . shows a side view of the shield along section in . shows that the structural armor plate layer is modified with traversing ports which pass completely through the layer.

In addition to showing section in shows post explosion blast shield following the occurrence of explosive blast schematically shown as explosive blast EXP3 directed against building B3. In elements and remain undamaged that is the same as shown in .

Blast shield is blast shield following deformation by explosive blast EXP3. Post blast structural armor plate layer corresponds with structural armor plate layer in . Following explosive blast EXP3 post blast ductile strike layer has been distorted as has any highly strain rate hardening polymer layer not shown in . At points E1 E2 E3 E4 and E5 fragments of strike layer have been broken and separated at post blast traversing ports resulting in spall. shows common spall shapes ordinarily found. The size and disk shape are an artifact of the traversing ports through which segments of the ductile metal strike surface layer was forced by the explosive blast. Spall is coated on one surface with highly strain rate hardening polymer layer not shown . Spall liner is able to contain the spall and remain intact.

Laminar blast shield is assembled by joining ductile metal strike surface layer structural armor plate layer and highly strain rate hardening polymer . For thicker polymer layers joining is accomplished by constructing a mold. Metallic strike surface layer and structural armor plate layer are positioned in a frame leaving a space between them to fill with polymer . The space is sealed by taping the sides and bottom of the mold with foam tape of sufficient width to prevent liquid polymer from flowing out. Fluid polymer is poured or infused into the space left in the mold and then cured. Curing is generally accomplished by holding the materials undisturbed in the frame for about 24 to 72 hours at room temperature. Curing at elevated temperature in an autoclave can be carried out to reduce curing time. This solidifies the polymer without leaving any voids or bubbles and attaches the polymer to surfaces. As a result the polymer is functionally confined and exhibits the required physical properties of a confined polymer.

For thinner polymer layers joining is accomplished by film coating techniques. A foil sheet is laid out on a flat surface. Polymer is coated uniformly on the foil sheet and cured. In another case there are two foil layers with polymer between them. This composite is made by laying a foil sheet out on a flat surface. Polymer is coated uniformly on the foil sheet. The second foil sheet is laid on the polymer and a roller is applied to remove any non uniformity. The polymer composite is allowed to cure.

Inventors were inspired by their repeated observations of explosive blast pressure measurements on diaphragm gauges. A diaphragm gauge includes a metallic pressure sensing element that elastically flexes under the effect of a pressure difference across the element. For explosive blast pressure measurements inventors used a ductile metallic sheet for the pressure sensing element. Ductile metallic sheet disks are mounted over a circular port and exposed to an explosive blast. The ductile metallic diaphragm responds with a dish shaped deflection alternately referred to as hemispherical and concave. Explosive blast pressure is read by comparison of the deflected diaphragm with a set of dished explosive blast pressure calibrated diaphragms. It is possible to construct a stress strain curve of the material being tested by exposing disks to sequentially increased explosive charges.

Inventors found that ductile metallic diaphragms could be fabricated that dissipated considerable explosive blast pressure. This was achieved by selecting circular port diameter selecting ductile metallic foil or sheet material and backing the ductile metallic foil or sheet with a highly strain rate hardening polymer. It was found that greater improvement in blast pressure mitigation could be achieved by additionally confining the highly strain rate hardening polymer. The ductile metal polymer composite strike layer undergoes considerable deformation before it ruptures consuming more blast energy than metallic foil or sheet alone. The function of the invention is to consume blast energy by deformation and rupture. It is desirable that rupture occurs to mitigate the most blast energy possible from the materials selected.

Thickness of the structural armor plate and circular port diameter are selected in view of the magnitude of the anticipated explosive threat. Armor plate thicknesses at the upper end of the inventive range are paired with thicker ductile strike layers to defeat a larger magnitude explosive threat. Armor plate thicknesses at the lower end of the inventive range are paired with thinner ductile strike layers to defeat an anticipated smaller magnitude explosive threat. Although any of the combinations of materials is effective for the intended purpose it has been found during installation that 0.001 to up to 0.006 inch thick foils are more sensitive to simple handling damage when paired with larger diameter ports. Smaller port diameters provide more support for thin foils.

There is no simple method for calculating the rupture of a diaphragm gauge exposed to an explosive blast wave. Methods have been developed that rely on theoretical calculations corrected with empirical data. The methods are useful in reverse for estimating a useful measurement range for a diaphragm gauge and the point at which rupture may occur. By way of example at explosive charge weights up to 20 pounds the deformation of steel diaphragms is proportional to the 0.6 power of charge weight and the 1.2 power of charge stand off distance. At explosive charge weights of 100 pounds or more the deformation of steel diaphragms is proportional to the 0.5 power of charge weight and the 1.13 power of charge stand off distance. Larger diameter ports allow for larger deformations. It is also possible to measure maximum deformation before rupture in the laboratory for various thicknesses of thin ductile metallic sheet material. These examples and additional examples provide the user with a method of selecting ductile metallic sheet material and thickness.

Finally a layer of ballistic armor was selected that provided structural mounting for ductile metallic diaphragms. The ballistic armor was modified with circular ports. The ballistic armor improved blast survivability by providing blast pressure relief. This is caused by two phenomena. First only a portion of the blast wave flows through ruptured ports. Another portion is reflected back from the ballistic armor surface. This is a significant pressure mitigation effect. Second the pressure is reduced by flow through the ports. In addition the presence of barriers and blast shields deters attempts against any target. That is the presence of the instant shield deters explosive blast attacks as well as projectile attacks.

In and blast shield comprises a panel. In this embodiment there is no spall liner. Frame members and hold the blast shield and allow mounting and fixed attachment to a vehicle barrier shown here as Jersey barriers and . Heavy bolts and are attached to the steel reinforced concrete Jersey barriers. Frame member is fixedly attached to the Jersey barriers and by means of heavy steel alloy bolts and and nuts and . Similarly Jersey barriers and are immobilized with steel reinforcement bars and driven into the ground G.

The laminar blast shield comprises adjacent layers comprising a ductile strike layer and a structural armor plate layer . Ductile strike layer corresponds with the ductile strike layer described above.

Strike surface layer and second metallic layer comprise a foil or sheet of ductile metal. At the lower end of the thickness range 0.001 up to 0.006 inches layer and layer are each described as foil. At a thickness of 0.006 inches and above they are each described as sheet. That is the thickness range of each of metallic strike surface layer and second metallic layer is 0.001 inch to 0.25 inches.

Examples of suitable materials for the metallic strike surface layer and the second metallic layer include aluminum including 1100 series 5000 series and 6000 series aluminum sheet. Examples of steel include mild steel austenitic stainless steels such as 316L and 310 and maraging steel. Other suitable materials for layer include 1100 copper and commercially pure grades of titanium.

The structural armor plate layer comprises a ballistic armor plate having a minimum Young s modulus of 1 million psi and a Poisson s ratio between 0.2 and 0.35. This is achieved with a 0.5 inch to 5 inch thick layer of a ballistic armor plate of a material such as surface hardened steel titanium armor aluminum armor ceramic glass reinforced ballistic polymer and the like.

Conduits are formed by drilling grinding casting chemical machining and the like. The conduits may also be formed from pipes or tubing. The pipes or tubes are then backed with metal or polymer. Precision is not necessary in the diameters of the traversing ports. It is only preferred that the diameters in any structural armor plate layer be relatively uniform.

Polymers have been found that are effective against explosive blast pressure and projectile penetration. These polymers demonstrate high strain rate hardening when subjected to highly rate loading. They become highly rigid when subjected to high rate loading by a projectile. The transient rigidity is significantly increased when the polymer is confined. This physical response creates a transient very high strength barrier to a penetrator.

Highly strain rate hardening polymers include polyurea polyurethane and mixtures of polyurea and polyurethane. Polyurea is preferred. The thickness of highly strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer is 0.005 to 0.25 inches.

Generally highly strain rate hardening polymers useful for the invention demonstrate a Young s modulus of 1000 psi to 4000 psi when tested at slow strain rates. At high strain rates in the range of 1 000 second to 1 000 000 second the confined polymer demonstrates a Young s modulus of 350 000 psi to 500 000 psi or greater. When confined the tensile strength increases from about 2 000 8000 psi to about 80 000 psi. By way of example polyurea useful for the invention is sold commercially under trade names including Carboline POLYCLAD 707 Air Products VERSALINK 1000 and SPI POLYSHIELD Hi E.

In following explosive blast EXP8 ductile metallic strike layer has been distorted. The distortion includes metallic strike surface layer highly strain rate hardening polymer layer and second metallic layer . Fragments of metallic strike surface layer highly strain rate hardening polymer layer and second metallic layer have been broken and separated at port pairs and resulting in spall. shows the common spall shapes. Size and shape are an artifact of the diameter of port pairs and through which segments of the ductile metal sheet strike surface layer was forced by the explosive blast EXP8. Spall includes highly strain rate hardening polymer layer . Spall is contained in conduit .

The dynamic response of conduit to an explosive blast EXP8 has been simulated on digital computer. Conduit has uniform diameter D. Explosive blast EXP8 generates blast waves traveling in a direction indicated by arrow at velocities in the range of 1500 to 3000 meters second and as shown enter port and blast waves traveling in the direction indicated by arrow that travel to and enter port . Blast waves indicated by direction arrows and are of approximately equal magnitude and collide at the point identified as point Collision. A portion of the blast waves indicated by arrows and continue to and reflect off the back wall of structural armor plate layer as reflected waves in a direction indicated by arrows . Reflected wave arrows meet blast wave arrow and blast wave arrow at point Collision. Point Collision is a point of high pressure where pressure waves collide resulting in cancellation of opposing blast waves. The shape of conduit and proximity to back wall cause the division of pressure waves with subsequent collision and cancellation.

A secondary mechanism in this embodiment is the generation of low mass low momentum fragments contained within conduit of structural armor plate layer . As a result explosive blast EXP8 does not significantly damage building B8. Portions of the blast wave from explosive blast EXP8 travel in oblique directions indicated by direction arrow . These portions do not impact the shield. Their oblique direction assures that they also do not impact building B8.

We investigated the blast performance of thin sheets of aluminum coated with a thin layer of Air Products VERSALINK 1000 polyurea. The specified yield of the aluminum 5052 H32 alloy was 28 ksi. This compares with a specific yield of 51 ksi for DH 36 steel. The modulus of aluminum was that of steel and the density was on the order of 40 of steel. The density and modulus of the aluminum were more closely aligned with the density and modulus of polyurea.

The polyurea coated aluminum sheet was supported with a structural armor plate. The support was made by cutting 2.3 inch diameter ports through the 2 inch thick by 9 square foot HY 100 steel plate. A bevel of 45 around the diameter of each port on the surface of the plate extended the openings to 2.5 inches. This produced a structural armor plate with 49 equally spaced ports clustered at different distances from a central port. The obliquity and standoff varied with distance from the central port. The explosive charge was detonated directly over the center port with the remaining ports located at increasing standoffs and increasing obliquity by virtue of their diagonal orientation. The diaphragms over each port were the thin aluminum sheet coated with polyurea set over the structural ballistic armor plate. A series of aluminum sheet samples were made with different polyurea coating thicknesses.

In each test an aluminum sheet was laid horizontally face up with an underlying structural steel plate for support. Wooden beams supported the steel plate off the ground. The 2 inch thick HY 100 steel plate had a uniform array of 49 equally spaced ports traversing the plate. Each port had a 2.3 inch diameter with a 45 degree bevel on the explosion facing surface of the plate increasing the diameter of each port at the facing surface to 2.5 inches. Sheets of 0.04 inch thick aluminum 5052 H32 were tested with polyurea coating thicknesses of zero inch 0.02 inch 0.04 inch 0.08 inch and 0.20 inch. The polyurea coatings were applied with a roller to the thin aluminum sheet except the 0.20 inch thickness which was applied by casting. Coating thicknesses were measured with a micrometer. An uncoated 0.06 inch thick aluminum sheet was included for comparison.

A pentolite charge was weighed. The charge was suspended by thin wire 1 foot above the center of the plate. The pentolite was a 1 to 1 mixture of pentoaerythritol tetranitrate and tetranitrotoluene. The charge shape was a right circular cylinder with a 1 to 1 length to diameter ratio oriented with its axis of symmetry in the vertical direction. Standoff of the charge from the center of each port varied from 12 inches directly above the center port to about 22.73 inches at about a 58 degree obliquity for the ports at the corners of the 2 inch thick HY 100 plate. Due to the symmetry of the pattern of ports in the plate 1 4 or 8 ports were located at each of 10 standoff distances.

After testing the sheets were cleaned and photographed. We measure the maximum aluminum sheet deformation i.e. dishing manually with a profile gauge. Each sheet was weighed to give an additional estimate of average coating thickness.

We calculated peak pressures at the center of each port using a standard theory based method with empirical corrections. The calculated peak pressures experienced ranged from about 100 to 1600 psi. The applied pressures varied somewhat primarily due to the shape of the charge and secondarily due to factors including temperature and humidity.

We used a profile gauge to measure aluminum deformation in each port from the initial surface of the aluminum to the point of maximum depth. As expected less standoff distance and less obliquity corresponded with increased dishing depth. We found that dishing depths varied from 0.01 inches to 0.525 inches. At the greater standoffs dishing varied only from 0.025 inches to 0.125 inches.

The port in the center of the sheet was located directly beneath the pentolite charge and had the least standoff to the charge. The largest deformations were measured at the center port and it was the only port location that ruptured. Of course the depth of a ruptured port is not measurable. Three different test panels experienced some degree of rupture at the center port. Complete rupture occurred for the 0.04 inch aluminum sheet without a polyurea coating. The aluminum material above the port separated from the sheet in a single distorted piece which would include both membrane stretching dishing and edge separation. Partial rupture from edge separation occurred for the 0.04 inch aluminum sheet with a 0.04 inch polyurea coating. The material remained attached both by a small section of aluminum and a small section of polyurea at the same location. Finally the uncoated 0.06 inch thick aluminum sheet also experienced partial rupture that is a circumferential crack around about 50 of the edge of the port.

It was noted that the 0.04 inch aluminum sheet coated with 0.02 inch polyurea did not rupture while equally thick aluminum sheets with coatings 2 times the thickness did rupture. This indicated to us that the coating thickness was optimal for blast performance benefits. We concluded that additional polyurea thickness provided mass without benefit beyond weight equivalent aluminum. Therefore the preferred thickness ratio of ductile metallic sheet strike surface layer highly strain rate sensitivity hardening polymer layer ranges from 2.25 1 to 1.75 1 preferably about 2 1.

Due to the symmetry of the sheet all port locations orientations besides the center port were exposed in groups of 4 or more. The results at duplicate locations orientations showed some variation. In order to compare the performance of all of the test configurations the highest lowest and average dishing depths measured at a specific location orientation were graphed against the areal density of that sheet. From this dishing depth was plotted against areal sheet density for the 20 ports closest to the center port.

The four ports nearest the center port were located about 12.83 inches from the pentolite charge at about a 21 degree obliquity. In this series of tests the average dishing at this location indicated that on a weight basis there is an advantage to using a thin coating of polyurea on a thin aluminum sheet. The polyurea supports greater dishing prior to rupture and as a result more energy absorption.

The data from the uncoated 0.06 inch aluminum sheet had too much spread for definitive interpretation. We noted that the greatest measured dishing of the 0.06 inch sheet at this close in port location was well above the dishing of polyurea coated sheets and also has greater weight.

The four ports diagonally adjacent the center port were spaced 13.62 inches from the charge at about 28 degree obliquity. Here there was no apparent advantage or disadvantage on a weight basis for coating the aluminum sheets with polyurea. Measurements of the ports located 15.06 inches and 15.73 inches from the charge at about a 37 and 40 degree obliquity respectively provided no evidence of an advantage or disadvantage for using polyurea versus a weight equivalent of aluminum. Polyurea was better able to improve aluminum performance and protection from blast at closer standoffs where the rate and severity of incident blast wave was the greatest.

Four vertically oriented panels were positioned around a pentolite explosive charge. The panels were mounted in large frames with the center of the panel spaced 2.33 feet 28 inches from a pentolite explosive charge having the same weight as the charge in Example 1 detonated on the top surface. The exposed surface of the barrier panel was 11 inches by 11 inches. The large frame width precluded the blast wave from encircling the blast panel and complicating the results. The free field pressure at the 2.33 feet standoff was nominally 38 psi. However the pressure was measured 8 inches behind the front face of the barrier or 3 feet from the charge detonation. Pressure was measured using a PCB Model 137A23 Quartz ICP pressure pencil probe.

We used two different ported armor plate configurations. One armor plate had 16 ports having 2 inch diameters separated 0.6 inches edge to edge in a 4 4 square array. The other armor plate had 64 ports having 0.8 inch diameters separated 0.45 inches edge to edge apart in an 8 8 square array. A sheet of heavy duty 0.001 inch thick aluminum foil was placed in front of the holes for many of the tests. In a second set of tests the 0.001 inch thick aluminum was coated on the back with a nominally 0.005 inch thick layer of VERSATHANE polyurea polymer. An additional test was done using a 0.005 inch thick foil of aluminum with 0.4 inch diameter holes separated 0.3 inches edge to edge.

One measure of performance is the shape and magnitude of the blast pulse and time of arrival at the pressure measuring gage location. Two identical tests were carried out without any barrier to measure a reference response to the blast. There was an initial large positive blast pulse that arrived in roughly 0.83 milliseconds which rose rapidly to a maximum and then dropped to zero at nominally 1.2 milliseconds. There was a second small positive pressure buildup at 1.7 milliseconds after the negative pressure phase of the initial portion of the blast wave. This bi modal profile varied in shape and magnitude depending on the panel. The peak pressure was decreased by the ported panels and the time of the arrival of the pulse was increased by roughly 0.02 milliseconds with the ported panel. Adding foil to the front of the ported panels increased the blast pressure pulse arrival time slightly and in the case of the 64 port panel decreased the magnitude as well. The second positive pressure peak at 1.7 milliseconds was increased in magnitude as the ported panel with foil appeared to effectively chop the initial pressure pulse and delay it to a later time. The addition of the polymer backing made a difference in the time of arrival of the pulse extending it by roughly 0.2 to 1.0 milliseconds. The pressure pushed to the second peak at roughly 1.7 milliseconds is significant with the second peak higher than the first.

In summary the blast wave produced a bi modal pressure profile where the initial peak pressure was retarded by the inclusion of foil and polymer on the ported panel. There was a second buildup after a 1.7 millisecond interval. Energy was apparently transferred between these two peaks the initial pressure peak and a second pressure peak. The second pressure peak was often higher than the first but all of the second pressure peaks were lower than the initial pulse for the case without any barrier.

Recorded explosive blast wave pressure profiles were examined side by side for comparison. For the 16 port and 64 port cases we saw that the first pressure peak was decreased by the addition of each panel element. When the second pressure peak was considered neither peak was large compared to the case without any panel. The reduction in pressure magnitude for the best cases was at least 50 percent.

Impulse is the area under a pressure time curve. The impulse curves for the foil and polymer were also bi modal with the first peak lower in all cases. However the maximum impulse was nearly the same for all cases. The best inventive panel reduced peak impulse up to 15 compared to the case without a panel.

We investigated modification of explosive blast frequency spectrum. Blast frequencies between 1000 and 3000 Hz have been correlated with pulmonary damage and other blast injuries. We used Fourier spectrum analysis to identify the distribution of frequency levels. Fourier spectra for the 16 port armor plate were compared to the case without an armor plate. It was found that the pentolite charges produced a distinct peak around 1500 Hz. That is in the center of the 1000 to 3000 Hz injury region identified by G. J. Cooper Protection of the Lung from Blast Overpressures by Thoracic Stress Wave Decouplers vol. 40 no. 3 1996 . This damaging frequency range is identified in as the Cooper Injury Range.

We tested an armor plate with 64 ports 0.4 inches in diameter. A 0.005 inch thick foil overlay and a 0.005 inch thick foil overlay backed with polymer were tested. We found that an armor panel with 0.4 inch ports and 0.005 inch thick foil reduced the amplitude of 1000 to 3000 Hz frequencies. In another test the foil was back coated with polymer and a similar reduction in amplitude was measured.

A ported armor plate with foil back coated with polymer reduced the amplitude of damaging range frequencies. The 16 port plate performed better than the 64 port plate. We attributed this difference to the presence of the polymer. We observed that the polymer increased the capability of the foil to yield and finally to neck. The result was more parabolic deflection into the ports before rupture. At the ruptured ports we noted a wide layer of polymer at the circumference of the ports indicating large stretching beyond the aluminum foil and snap back shape recovery. These polymer materials are known to demonstrate snap back shape recovery. There was also tearing in the mid region of the foil with polymer for the 64 port armor plate.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

