---

title: Methods and apparatus for coordination in multi-mode networks
abstract: A non-transitory processor-readable medium stores code to cause a processor to receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate, using the performance indicator associated with the first mode, a first metric value associated with a first metric and an objective of the first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate, using the first metric value, a second metric value associated with a second metric and an objective of a second mode. The second metric value partially compensates for a change in a performance indicator associated with the second mode when the first metric value is implemented. The code causes the processor to send a signal associated with the first metric value and a signal associated with the second metric value to an antenna module such that the antenna module implements the first metric value and the second metric value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008722&OS=09008722&RS=09008722
owner: Reverb Networks, Inc.
number: 09008722
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130214
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 600 223 filed Feb. 17 2012 and entitled Multi Frequency Band and Multi Radio Access Technology Self Optimizing Networks which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Some embodiments described herein relate generally to multi mode multi frequency band and or multi Radio Access Technology RAT networks and in particular to methods and apparatus for coordination in multi mode Self Optimizing Networks SONs .

Some known wireless networks implement an automated system for network optimization using SON solutions e.g. SON products and processes which adjust radio resources and network parameters to improve the overall network performance. Such SON solutions however typically are not designed to optimize or improve network performance for wireless networks that operate in multiple modes. Some other known wireless networks operate in multiple modes e.g. multiple frequency bands and or multiple RATs . Such multi mode networks however typically do not implement SON techniques to coordinate operations in the multiple modes to obtain an overall optimization or improvement in network performance.

Accordingly a need exists for methods and apparatus for coordinating operations in multiple modes using SON techniques to improve or maximize the overall network performance for the multi mode wireless networks.

A non transitory processor readable medium stores code to cause a processor to receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate using the performance indicator associated with the first mode a first metric value associated with a first metric and an objective of the first mode. The code causes the processor to calculate using the first metric value a second metric value associated with a second metric and an objective of a second mode. The second metric value partially compensates for a change in a performance indicator associated with the second mode when the first metric value is implemented. The code causes the processor to send a signal associated with the first metric value and a signal associated with the second metric value to an antenna module such that the antenna module implements the first metric value and the second metric value.

In some embodiments a non transitory processor readable medium stores code representing instructions to be executed by a processor. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode from a set of modes associated with a cellular network area. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to calculate using the performance indicator associated with the first mode a first metric value. The calculated first metric value is associated with a first metric and an objective of the first mode. The first metric can be for example an antenna based metric or a parameter based metric. The first metric value can be associated with for example a tilt of an antenna or a power level of the first mode. The objective of the first mode can be for example a Self Optimizing Network SON objective.

The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to also calculate using the first metric value a second metric value. The calculated second metric value is associated with a second metric and an objective of a second mode from the set of modes. The objective of the second mode can be the same or different from the objective of the first mode. Moreover the second metric value at least partially compensates for a change in a performance indicator associated with the second mode when the first metric value is implemented. In some instances the performance indicator associated with the second mode can be associated with an inter modal relationship between the first mode and the second mode.

The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to further send a signal associated with the first metric value and a signal associated with the second metric value to at least one antenna module associated with the cellular network area. As a result the at least one antenna module implements the first metric value and the second metric value. In some instances the first metric value and the second metric value can be implemented at a single antenna or at different antennas.

In some instances the first mode includes a first Radio Access Technology RAT and the second mode includes a second RAT. In some instances the first mode includes a RAT operating in a frequency band and the second mode includes the same RAT operating in a different frequency band.

As used herein a module can be for example any assembly and or set of operatively coupled electrical components associated with performing a specific function and can include for example a memory a processor electrical traces optical connectors software executing in hardware and or the like. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term a SON implementation module is intended to mean a single module or a combination of modules configured to perform SON implementation functions.

Specifically the wireless network can be any network that enables wireless communication devices e.g. cellular phones Wi Fi enabled laptops Bluetooth devices mobile devices etc. to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the wireless network can be implemented and administered using wireless transmission such as radio frequency RF waves. For example the wireless network can be a cellular network that enables two cellular phones to communicate with each other. For another example the wireless network can be a Wi Fi network that enables multiple Wi Fi enabled laptops to be operatively connected. In some embodiments the wireless network can be at least a portion of for example a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless mesh network a wireless metropolitan area network MAN a wireless wide area network WAN a mobile device network e.g. a global system for mobile communications GSM network a personal communications service PCS network a radio access network RAN a long term evolution LTE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or the like.

As shown in the wireless network includes a network optimization device a network database one or more controllers e.g. controllers and one or more network elements such as base stations e.g. base stations for supporting data communication between subscriber devices not shown in distributed throughout coverage areas defined or established by the wireless network via one or more antennas e.g. antennas .

The network optimization device is operatively coupled to the network database . The network optimization device is also operatively coupled to and configured to manage the one or more controllers e.g. controllers and . Each controller e.g. the controller is operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more network elements e.g. base stations and . A controller can be any device that is capable of sending control signals e.g. commands instructions requests etc. to the network element s controlled by that controller thus managing operations of the network element s . In some embodiments a controller can be for example a server or similar computer device. In some embodiments a controller can also be considered a network element of the wireless network .

A network element e.g. the base station or controlled by a controller e.g. the controller can be any device or infrastructure that can be wirelessly coupled to and communicate with one or more wireless communication devices e.g. subscribers to the wireless network . In some embodiments such a network element e.g. the base station can be equipped with and configured to control one or more antennas e.g. the antennas and which can be used to support data communications e.g. transmit data to and or receive data from between that network element and the wireless communication devices not shown in that are distributed throughout a coverage area s or sector s associated with those antennas. For example as shown in the antenna can support data communications between the base station and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area the antenna can support data communications between a base station where the antenna is located and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area . In some embodiments a network element e.g. base station controlled by a controller can be located at for example a cell site. In such embodiments the coverage area associated with an antenna of that network element can be referred to as a cell.

In some embodiments the connections between the network optimization device and the one or more controllers e.g. the controllers and and the network database can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections. Similarly the connections between each controller e.g. the controller and its associated network element s e.g. the base stations and can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections.

The network database can be implemented in a memory or other storage device that is part of the network optimization device or another device operatively coupled to the network optimization device . The network database can be configured to receive and store information and or data associated with the wireless network such as network statistics current network configurations and performance indicators of the wireless network . Furthermore the network database can be configured to provide or send the stored information and or data to the network optimization device . The information and or data can be used at the network optimization device to monitor optimize or improve network performance of the wireless network as described in detail with respect to . Such information and or data can include but not limited to key performance Indicators KPIs such as transmitted radio power level value of a cell a successful call rate SCR value of a cell traffic statistical values associated with a cell handover statistical values associated with a cell a drop call rate DCR value associated with a cell and or the like. While shown in as being located on a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network database can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple databases across the wireless network .

The network optimization device can be any device configured to control coordinate and or execute one or more optimization processes e.g. hardware processes and or software processes executed in hardware for performing optimization of network parameters in the wireless network . In some embodiments the network optimization device can be for example a compute device a server device an application server a mobile device a workstation and or the like. As shown in the network optimization device can be directly or operatively coupled to the remaining devices within the wireless network . Specifically the network optimization device can be operatively coupled to the network elements e.g. the base stations and via one or multiple intermediate modules and or devices such as for example a controller e.g. the controller or and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization device can be coupled to the remaining devices of the wireless network via any suitable connecting mechanism such as for example optical connections e.g. optical cables and optical connectors electrical connections e.g. electrical cables and electrical connectors wireless connections e.g. wireless transceivers and antennas and or the like. Furthermore while shown in as a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network optimization device can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple servers across the wireless network .

In some embodiments the network optimization device can be configured to execute one or more SON processes for various purposes. Such SON processes can be similar to the SON processes shown and described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0090820 filed Oct. 16 2009 and entitled Self Optimizing Wireless Network which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such SON processes can include an antenna based SON process a parameter based SON process or a combined antenna and parameter based SON process. Such SON processes can include for example a load balancing SON process a co channel interference SON process a neighbor list SON process a handover optimization SON process a self healing SON process and or the like.

In some embodiments communication infrastructure and devices e.g. base stations antennas of the wireless network can operate within a multi mode deployment such as a multi frequency band deployment and or a multi RAT deployment. Multi frequency band deployments of wireless communication systems refer to providing communication services over different frequency bands e.g. 850 900 1800 and 1900 MHz frequency bands within the same cell site over the same or different antennas. Multi RAT deployments of wireless communication systems refer to providing communication services over different radio access technologies e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Long Term Evolution LTE etc. within the same cell site over the same or different antennas. In some embodiments multi frequency band and multi RAT deployments can be collectively referred to as multi mode deployments. In such embodiments a mode can be defined based on for example a unique combination of a given frequency band and a given RAT. For example providing communication services using CDMA over the 850 MHz frequency band can be defined as operating in a first mode providing communication services using CDMA over the 900 MHz frequency band can be defined as operating in a second mode and providing communication services using TDMA over the 900 MHz frequency band can be defined as operating in a third mode.

The wireless network can be configured to perform and or execute multi mode optimization objectives implemented in the same and or separate antennae environments. Specifically the network optimization device can be configured to monitor optimize and or improve network performance of the wireless network that operates in multiple modes e.g. multi frequency bands and or multi RATs . Particularly the network optimization device can be configured to coordinate optimization across multiple modes by compensating for performance degradation related to multi mode deployment and optimization. Details of coordination for optimization across multiple modes are further described below and with respect to .

In some embodiments an optimization objective associated with a mode e.g. communication in a certain frequency band and or using a certain RAT can be a SON objective. Furthermore optimization objectives for various modes e.g. communication in multiple frequency bands communication using multiple RATs can be the same SON objective or different SON objectives. In such embodiments SON techniques can be applied to optimize or improve performance associated with one or multiple modes of the wireless network . The SON techniques can be similar to the SON techniques described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0090820 filed Oct. 16 2009 and entitled Self Optimizing Wireless Network and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 532 850 filed Sep. 9 2011 and entitled Self Optimizing Organizing Network Manager each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments when applying SON techniques to multi frequency band and or multi RAT deployments the network optimization device can make various determinations with respect to achieving overall optimization or improvement for network performance of the wireless network . For example the network optimization device can determine to include or exclude certain frequency bands or RATs for optimization goals. For another example the network optimization device can execute SON processes to apply changes on network parameters where the changes applied on network parameters can be different for different frequency bands and or RATs e.g. due to differences in propagation characteristics signal strength and quality requirements for different frequency bands and or RATs .

In some embodiments when the SON objectives are common for the multiple frequency bands and or multiple RATs the network optimization device can apply changes as a result of executing SON processes differently to the network parameters corresponding to the frequency bands and or RATs. For example if the network parameter to be altered to meet SON objectives is antenna tilt and if two frequency bands are transmitted over different antennas the network optimization device can calculate the output tilt changes differently for the two antennas for example due to the propagation differences between the two frequency bands. On the other hand if the two frequency bands are transmitted over the same antenna the network optimization device can determine a tilt change made to the common antenna for both frequency bands and then compensate the difference in propagation characteristics by modifying an additional parameter to meet or exceed the common SON objectives e.g. changing the power on the transmission of one of the frequency bands over the common antenna .

In some embodiments when the SON objectives are different for different frequency bands and or RATs the network optimization device can apply SON processes independently to the frequency bands and or RAT transmissions. Furthermore in some embodiments when different RATs are transmitted over the same antenna and the network parameter to be changed as specified by an SON process is an antenna parameter the network optimization device can compensate for the performance change caused by the change of antenna parameter that is intended for one of the RATs by a modification on a parameter e.g. power specific to another RAT such that the effective service associated with the other RAT can remain substantially unchanged.

In some embodiments the process for coordinating optimization of network parameters across multiple modes in the wireless network can be executed at a processor of the network optimization device . and each illustrate a block diagram of a network optimization device configured to coordinate optimization in a multi mode wireless network according to an embodiment. The network optimization device shown in i.e. network optimization device or i.e. network optimization device can be structurally and functionally similar to the network optimization device shown and described with respect to . The multi mode wireless network hosting the network optimization device or the multi mode wireless network hosting the network optimization device can be similar to the wireless network shown and described with respect to . Although not shown in or the network optimization device or can include other components such as a memory a series of communication ports and or the like. In some instances the network optimization device or each can be a single physical device. In other instances the network optimization device or can include multiple physical devices each of which can include one or multiple modules shown in or and or other components not shown in or of the processor or processor .

As shown in the processor includes network optimization modules and that are operatively coupled to each other. Although not shown in in some embodiments the processor can include more or less than two network optimization modules and or other modules and or components associated with coordinating the optimization process across multiple modes such as for example a monitor module monitoring performance of network elements controlled by the network optimization device a detector module detecting any malfunction or other problem at network elements controlled by the network optimization device a communication module transmitting control signals to and or receiving data from network elements controlled by the network optimization device and or the like. Each module in the processor can be any combination of hardware based module e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP and or software based module e.g. a module of computer code stored in memory and or executed at the processor capable of performing one or more specific functions associated with that module. The processor can be any suitable processor configured to run and or execute those modules.

Each of the network optimization modules can be associated with at least one mode from a set of modes in which network devices e.g. base stations of the multi mode wireless network operate. That is each network optimization module can be configured to optimize or improve performance of network devices that operate in its associated mode s . As discussed above a mode can be defined for example as a unique combination of a frequency band and a RAT. For example the network optimization module can be associated with a first mode of CDMA and a 850 MHz frequency band the network optimization module can be associated with a second mode of FDMA and a 1800 MHz frequency band. In other words the network optimization module can be configured to optimize or improve performance of network devices of the first mode which operate using CDMA over the 850 MHz frequency band the network optimization module can be configured to optimize or improve performance of network devices of the second mode which operate using FDMA over the 1800 MHz frequency band. Furthermore in some embodiments the network optimization module or can be associated with more than one mode.

In some embodiments to optimize or improve performance of network devices that operate in one or more given modes the network optimization module or can be configured to among other functions receive performance indicators associated with a given mode calculate metric values associated with the given mode based on the received performance indicators and send signals including the metric values such that the metric values can be implemented at corresponding network devices.

In operation the network optimization module can receive a performance indicator associated with the first mode from network device s operating in the first mode. The performance indicator can be used to evaluate performance of the first mode with respect to an optimization objective for the first mode. Such an optimization objective can be a SON objective such as for example enlarging coverage of a cell increasing SCR for the first mode etc. In some instances the received performance indicator can be a KPI such as for example transmitted radio power level value of a cell a SCR value of a cell traffic statistical values associated with a cell handover statistical values associated with a cell a DCR value associated with a cell and or the like. For example the performance indicator associated with the first mode can be coverage of a cell associated with an antenna that can operate in the first mode.

After receiving the performance indicator associated with the first mode the network optimization module can calculate a metric value associated with a first metric based on the received performance indicator. The first metric can be an antenna parameter e.g. antenna tilt or a non antenna parameter e.g. a parameter used in an algorithm executed at a network device associated with the first mode. The metric value for the first metric can represent a modification of the antenna parameter or the non antenna parameter. In some instances such a metric value can be a modified value of the parameter. In some other instances such a metric value can be a difference between the original value and the modified value of the parameter. In some instances the metric value for the first metric can be calculated using any suitable method such that the optimization objective for the first mode can be satisfied when the calculated metric value is implemented at the corresponding network device s .

In the above example the first metric can be the tilt for the antenna that can operate in the first mode. The calculated metric value for the first metric can be a modified value of the tilt. The modified value of the tilt can be calculated at the network optimization module to enlarge coverage of the antenna when the antenna operates in the first mode. As a result when the calculated metric value for the first metric is implemented at the antenna the tilt of the antenna can be changed such that the coverage of the antenna can be enlarged when the antenna operates in the first mode.

After the metric value for the first metric is calculated the network optimization module can send a signal including the metric value to the corresponding network device s where the metric value can be implemented. In some embodiments when the metric value is a modification on an antenna parameter the network optimization module can send the signal including the metric value to for example an antenna module which in turn can implement the modification of the antenna parameter at the corresponding antenna s .

Furthermore the network optimization module can send the metric value for the first metric to the network optimization . The network optimization module can then calculate a metric value associated with a second metric based on the received metric value for the first metric. Similar to the first metric the second metric can be a parameter e.g. an antenna parameter a non antenna parameter associated with the second mode. Similar to the metric value for the first metric the metric value for the second metric can represent a modification e.g. a modified value or a difference of the parameter associated with the second mode. In some instances the metric value for the second metric can be calculated using any suitable method such that an effect on a performance indicator for the second mode can be reduced where the effect is caused by implementation of the metric value for the first metric.

In the above example the network optimization module can send the modified antenna tilt to the network optimization module . The network optimization module can then calculate a new handover threshold associated with the first mode and the second mode which corresponds to the new coverage of the antenna for the first mode after the modified antenna tilt is applied. As a result the inter modal relationship between the first mode and the second mode is maintained with respect to handovers between the coverage of the first mode and the coverage of the second mode.

After the metric value for the second metric is calculated the network optimization module can send a signal including the metric value to the corresponding network device s where the metric value can be implemented. In some embodiments when the metric value is a modification on an antenna parameter the network optimization module can send the signal including the metric value to for example an antenna module which in turn can implement the modification of the antenna parameter at the corresponding antenna s .

As shown in the network optimization device illustrates an alternative design of a network optimization device that is different from the design for the network optimization device shown and described with respect to . Specifically the processor includes a SON optimization module and a performance compensation module that are operatively coupled to each other. Although not shown in in some instances the processor can include other modules and or components associated with coordinating the optimization process across multiple modes such as for example a monitor module monitoring performance of network elements controlled by the network optimization device a detector module detecting any malfunction or other problem at network elements controlled by the network optimization device a communication module transmitting control signals to and or receiving data from network elements controlled by the network optimization device and or the like. Each module in the processor can be any combination of hardware based module e.g. a FPGA a ASIC a DSP and or software based module e.g. a module of computer code stored in memory and or executed at the processor capable of performing one or more specific functions associated with that module. The processor can be any suitable processor configured to run and or execute those modules.

The SON optimization module can be configured to among other functions implement SON objectives by making changes to one or more parameters e.g. antenna parameters and or non antenna parameters based on the SON objectives. The performance compensation module can be configured to among other functions compensate for performance degradation that occurs as a result of the parameter changes caused by the SON optimization module and based on SON objectives by affecting certain other parameters e.g. antenna parameters and or non antenna parameters .

In operation the SON optimization module can receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode as well as a value of a performance indicator associated with a second mode. Similar to the performance indicators described above with respect to the performance indicator associated with the first mode can be used to evaluate performance of the first mode with respect to an optimization objective e.g. a SON objective for the first mode the performance indicator associated with the second mode can be used to evaluate performance of the second mode with respect to an optimization objective e.g. a SON objective for the second mode. In some embodiments the optimization objective for the first mode and the optimization objective for the second mode can be the same. In other embodiments the two optimization objectives can be different. Additionally in some embodiments the performance indicator associated with the second mode can be associated with an inter modal relationship e.g. load balancing handoff etc. between the first mode and the second mode.

After receiving the performance indicators the SON implementation module can then calculate a first metric value using the value of the performance indicator associated with the first mode. The first metric value can be a value e.g. a modified value for an antenna parameter e.g. antenna tilt or a non antenna parameter e.g. a parameter used in an algorithm executed at a network device associated with the first mode and or the second mode. In some instances the first metric value can be calculated using any suitable method such that the performance of the first mode can be improved when the first metric value is implemented. Furthermore in some instances the first metric value when implemented at the corresponding network device s can affect both the performance indicator associated with the first mode and the performance indicator associated with the second mode.

For example the performance indicator for the first mode can be a coverage of an antenna when the antenna operates in the first mode and the performance indicator for the second mode can be a DCR for the second mode when the antenna operates in the second mode assume that the antenna is a multi mode antenna that can operate in both the first mode and the second mode . After receiving the two performance indicators the SON implementation module can calculate a tilt value for the antenna using the value of the performance indicator associated with the first mode. Such a calculated tilt value when applied at the multi mode antenna can enlarge the coverage of the antenna when the antenna operates in the first mode but also increase the DCR for the second mode when the antenna operates in the second mode.

After the first metric value is calculated the SON implementation module can send a signal including the first metric value to corresponding network device s to implement the first metric value. In some embodiments when the first metric value is a value for an antenna parameter the SON implementation module can send the signal including the first metric value to for example an antenna module associated with the first mode which in turn can implement the first metric value at corresponding antenna s .

Furthermore the SON implementation module can send the first metric value to the performance compensation module . The performance compensation module can then calculate a second metric value using the first metric value. Similar to the first metric value the second metric value can be a value e.g. a modified value for an antenna parameter e.g. antenna tilt or a non antenna parameter e.g. handover threshold associated with the first mode and or the second mode. Particularly the second metric value can be calculated using any suitable method such that an effect on the performance indicator for the second mode can be compensated where the effect is caused by implementation of the first metric value. In some embodiments the second metric value can be calculated such that the performance indicator for the second mode after the second metric value is implemented is within a predetermined range of the performance indicator for the second mode that was previously received at the SON implementation module .

In the above example the SON implementation module can send the calculated tilt value to the performance compensation module . The performance compensation module can calculate a transmit power e.g. a modified transmit power for the multi mode antenna when the antenna operates in the second mode. Such a calculated transmit power when applied at the multi mode antenna can compensate the effect on the performance of the second mode i.e. the increase of DCR caused by implementation of the calculated tilt value. As a result the resulted DCR for the second mode after the calculated transmit power is applied at the multi mode antenna when the antenna operates in the second mode is within a predetermined range of the previous DCR for the second mode which was received at the SON implementation module before the calculated tilt was applied at the multi mode antenna when the antenna operates in the first mode .

Additionally the performance compensation module can send a signal including the second metric value to corresponding network device s to implement the second metric value. In some embodiments when the second metric value is a value for an antenna parameter the performance compensation module can send the signal including the second metric value to for example an antenna module associated with the second mode which in turn can implement the second metric value at corresponding antenna s .

In some multi mode deployments of wireless communication systems the SON objectives for the multiple modes can be common. The changes made to the network parameters e.g. antenna parameters non antenna parameters to meet these common SON objectives may however be different for the different modes due to for example the difference in the propagation characteristics of the modes different service and quality requirements of the modes and or the like.

In some embodiments multiple modes associated with common SON objectives can be transmitted over separate antennas. illustrates a multi mode wireless network configured to coordinate optimization based on common SON objectives and separate antennas e.g. antennas for the multiple modes e.g. modes according to an embodiment. The multi mode wireless network includes multiple mode specific controllers e.g. controllers that share common SON objectives . Each mode specific controller is associated with one or more modes. For example as shown in the controllers and are associated with mode mode and mode respectively. Each mode can be a unique combination of a frequency band e.g. 900 MHz 1800 MHz and a RAT e.g. CDMA LTE . Although not shown in in some embodiments a mode specific controller can be associated with more than one mode.

Each mode specific controller controls one or more antennas that operate in one of the specific mode s associated with that mode specific controller. For example as shown in the controller controls antenna that operates in mode the controller controls antenna that operates in mode the controller controls antenna that operates in mode . Although not shown in in some embodiments a mode specific controller can control more than one antenna. The multi mode wireless network can be similar to the multi mode wireless network shown and described with respect to . Particularly the controllers can be similar to the controllers shown and described with respect to . The antennas can be similar to the antennas shown and described with respect to .

In some embodiments instructions or signals implementing the common SON objectives can be communicated by a processor not shown in for example to the mode specific controllers e.g. controllers . As a result the mode specific controllers can calculate which parameters are to be changed and how to be changed to implement the SON objectives . The parameters to be modified to substantially meet the common SON objectives or meet the SON objectives within an acceptable range of values can include antenna parameters such as for example tilt transmit power azimuth beam width and or the like.

The modification applied to the antennas corresponding to the different modes can be calculated differently to meet the same SON objectives . In some embodiments different parameters can be calculated for different modes. For example the controller can be configured to calculate modification on a tilt of the antenna to meet the SON objectives for mode the controller can be configured to calculate modification on a transmit power of the antenna to meet the SON objectives for mode and the controller can be configured to calculate modification on a beam width of the antenna to meet the SON objectives for mode . In some other embodiments the same parameter can be calculated differently for different modes. For example if an antenna tilt is to be modified to meet the SON objectives and mode has more lossy propagation characteristics than mode then the antenna for mode can be tilted less than the antenna for mode to maintain the common cell coverage boundary as dictated by the common SON objectives .

In some embodiments the calculations for antenna parameter modifications can be performed at each mode specific controller for the corresponding mode. For example the calculations for antenna parameter modifications for mode and are performed at the controller and respectively. Alternatively as shown and described with respect to calculations for modifications on antenna parameters associated with the multiple modes can be performed at a centralized location such as a network optimization device not shown in similar to the network optimization device or .

After determining the parameter values the controllers then can send or the centralized device can send via the controllers these parameter values to the respective antennas that they control i.e. the antennas transmitting receiving signals in a particular mode . As a result the modified parameter values can be implemented at the respective antennas. Thus a round of optimization is completed.

In some embodiments multiple modes associated with common SON objectives can be transmitted over the same antenna. illustrates a multi mode wireless network configured to coordinate optimization based on common SON objectives and the same antenna for the multiple modes e.g. modes according to an embodiment. Similar to the multi mode wireless network show and described with respect to the multi mode wireless network includes multiple mode specific controllers e.g. controllers that share common SON objectives . Each mode specific controller is associated with one or more modes. For example as shown in the controllers and are associated with mode mode and mode respectively. In some embodiments the multi mode wireless network can include one or more controllers not shown in that can operate in all the modes which can calculate the modifications for all the modes.

Each mode can be a unique combination of a frequency band e.g. 900 MHz 1800 MHz and a RAT e.g. CDMA LTE . Although not shown in in some embodiments a mode specific controller can be associated with more than one mode. All the mode specific controllers are associated with a single multi mode antenna that can operate in the multiple modes e.g. modes . Although not shown in in some embodiments the multi mode wireless network can include more than one such multi mode antenna.

For the multi mode wireless network the SON objectives are the same for the multiple modes and the parameter value s to be modified to meet or exceed the common SON objectives can be related to an antenna parameter s such as for example tilt transmit power azimuth beam width and or the like. Modification applied to the common multi mode antenna can be calculated for a specific mode e.g. mode in a similar way as described above with . After such a modification is determined the modification can be compensated by modifications to one or more non common non antenna parameters corresponding to the other modes to meet the same SON objectives for the other modes.

Specifically the common SON objectives can be communicated by a processor not shown in for example to the mode specific controller where modification for the antenna parameter specific to mode can be calculated. Subsequently the calculated modification can be sent from the mode specific controller to the multi mode antenna such that the modification can be applied at the antenna . After the modification specific to mode is calculated at the controller the parameter changes for the other modes e.g. mode and mode can be calculated for network elements other than antennas e.g. non antenna elements based on the calculated modification on the antenna . The calculated changes to the non antenna parameters can then be communicated to those mode specific network elements to be implemented.

In some embodiments the multiple mode specific controllers e.g. controllers can perform the related calculations and communications for the common multi mode antenna e.g. the antenna and or the non antenna network elements e.g. the non antenna elements either individually or in co operation. In some other embodiments although not shown in a single controller that operates in all the modes can receive instructions or signals representing the common SON objectives and then make the related calculations and communications without involvement of other network element or component e.g. other controllers .

As an example if an antenna tilt is to be modified to satisfy the SON objectives the modification on the antenna tilt can be applied at the common antenna according to one of the modes that are operated by the common antenna . Next the transmit power of the other modes can be modified accordingly to maintain the common cell coverage boundary as dictated by the common SON objectives . Specifically when a downtilt operation is executed on the common antenna based on one of the modes a mode from the remaining modes that has more lossy propagation characteristics can have its transmit power increased another mode from the remaining modes that has less lossy propagation characteristics can have its transmit power decreased. Thus the common cell coverage boundary as dictated by the common SON objectives can be maintained for both of the modes. Conversely an uptilt operation based on one of the modes can be compensated by a decrease in transmit power of the remaining modes with more lossy propagation characteristics and an increase in transmit power of the remaining modes with less lossy propagation characteristics. Similarly the common cell coverage boundary as dictated by the common SON objectives can be maintained for the remaining modes.

In some multi mode deployments of wireless communication systems the traffic loading and service quality over different modes can be independent of each other. In such embodiments different SON objectives and independent SON mechanisms can be applied to the different modes. On one hand when the different modes are transmitted over the same antenna changes made to antenna parameters based on the SON objectives of one mode may affect the performance of the other modes. Such an effect on performance can be compensated by adjusting certain other parameters e.g. non antenna parameters specific to one or more of the modes. On the other hand when the different modes are transmitted over different antennas antenna based SON processes can be managed independently but may still allow for coordination for interactions between modes such as inter modal load balancing and inter modal handoffs.

In some embodiments multiple modes associated with different SON objectives can be transmitted over separate antennas. illustrates a multi mode wireless network configured to coordinate optimization based on different SON objectives and separate antennas e.g. antennas for the multiple modes e.g. modes according to an embodiment. Similar to the multi mode wireless networks and shown and described with respect to the multi mode wireless network includes multiple mode specific controllers e.g. controllers each of which is associated with mode specific SON objectives e.g. SON objectives . Each mode specific controller and its associated SON objectives are associated with a single mode. For example as shown in the controllers and the associated SON objectives are associated with mode mode and mode respectively. In some embodiments the multi mode wireless network can include one or more controllers not shown in that can operate in all the modes which can calculate the modifications for all the modes.

Each mode specific controller controls one or more antennas that operate in the associated specific mode and or one or more non antenna network elements associated with the specific mode. For example as shown in the controller controls antenna that operates in mode and controls the non antenna element that is associated with mode the controller controls antenna that operates in mode and controls the non antenna element that is associated with mode the controller controls antenna that operates in mode and controls the non antenna element that is associated with mode . Although not shown in in some embodiments a mode specific controller can control more than one antenna and or more than one non antenna element.

For the multi mode wireless network although the SON objectives are different for each mode modifications applied to the mode specific antennas e.g. antennas can be calculated for each mode e.g. mode in a similar way as described above with . For example for mode the controller can calculate modifications applied to the antenna based on the SON objectives . The antenna parameters to be modified to meet or exceed the mode specific SON objectives can include for example tilt transmit power azimuth beam width and or the like.

For the multi mode wireless network that operates with multiple mode specific SON objectives inter modal relationships e.g. inter modal handoff inter modal load balancing etc. may be affected when antenna parameter changes are made to one or more modes as a result of the mode specific SON objectives being implemented at the mode specific antennas for those modes. In these scenarios the non antenna parameters of one or more modes can be modified to maintain inter modal relationships affected by the SON driven changes.

Specifically instructions or signals representing the independent SON objectives for each mode can be communicated by a processor not shown in for example to the mode specific controllers. As described above with respect to the mode specific controllers can calculate modifications for mode specific antenna parameters and then communicate the calculated results to the corresponding mode specific antennas. Additionally the mode specific controllers can also communicate the calculated modifications for antenna parameters to the mode specific controllers of the other modes. In response to receiving the modifications for antenna parameters from the controller associated with another mode the other mode specific controllers can calculate changes to non antenna parameters based on the received changes to antenna parameters. Such changes to non antenna parameters can be calculated in a method to compensate for the effect caused by the changes on the antenna parameters such that inter modal relationships among the multiple modes that are independent of the underlying SON objectives can be maintained. The calculated changes to non antenna parameters can then be communicated to relevant non antenna network elements for implementation such that inter modal relationship coordination can be performed.

As an example the controller can calculate and implement a change on the tilt of the antenna based on the SON objectives for mode . Such a change on the antenna tilt may affect handover relationship between mode and mode such that performance of mode is deteriorated. As a result after receiving information associated with the change on the antenna tilt from the controller the controller can calculate a modification on a handover threshold between mode and mode . Such a modification on the handover threshold can be calculated in a method to cause the handover relationship between mode and mode to be maintained at substantially the same level before the tilt of the antenna is changed. The controller can then communicate the modification on the handover threshold to the non antenna element where the modification is implemented.

In some embodiments the calculations for antenna parameter modifications and or non antenna parameter modifications can be performed at each mode specific controller for the corresponding mode. For example the calculations for antenna parameter modifications and non antenna parameter modifications for mode and are performed at the controller and respectively. Alternatively as shown and described with respect to calculations for modifications on antenna parameters and or non antenna parameters associated with the multiple modes can be performed at a centralized location such as a network optimization device e.g. implemented at a centralized controller not shown in similar to the network optimization device or .

In some embodiments multiple modes associated with different SON objectives can be transmitted over the same antenna. illustrates a multi mode wireless network configured to coordinate optimization based on different SON objectives and the same antenna for the multiple modes e.g. modes according to an embodiment. Similar to the multi mode wireless network and shown and described with respect to the multi mode wireless network includes multiple mode specific controllers e.g. controllers each of which is associated with mode specific SON objectives e.g. SON objectives . Each mode specific controller and its associated SON objectives are associated with a single mode. For example as shown in the controllers and the associated SON objectives are associated with mode mode and mode respectively. In some embodiments the multi mode wireless network can include one or more controllers not shown in that can operate in all the modes which can calculate the modifications for all the modes.

All the mode specific controllers are associated with a single multi mode antenna that can operate in the multiple modes e.g. modes . Although not shown in in some instances the multi mode wireless network can include more than one such multi mode antenna. Additionally each mode specific controller controls one or more non antenna network elements associated with the specific mode. For example as shown in the controller controls non antenna element that is associated with mode the controller controls non antenna elements and that are associated with mode the controller controls non antenna elements and that are associated with mode . Although not shown in in some instances a mode specific controller can control more than two non antenna elements.

For the multi mode wireless network each mode specific controller can calculate modifications applied to antenna parameters or non antenna parameters based on the corresponding mode specific SON objectives. Specifically the controller can calculate modifications on antenna parameters e.g. tilt transmit power azimuth beam width etc. for the antenna based on the SON objectives for mode the controller can calculate modifications on non antenna parameters e.g. handoff threshold for the non antenna element based on the SON objectives for mode the controller can calculate modifications on non antenna parameters for the non antenna element based on the SON objectives for mode . Such calculations can be operated in a similar way as described above with respect to .

After a modification on an antenna parameter for the multi mode antenna is determined the modification can be compensated by modifications to one or more non common non antenna parameters corresponding to the other modes to maintain inter modal relationships that are independent of the underlying metric specific SON objectives. As such the performance and coverage of the other modes can be kept unaffected or affected to an acceptable extent.

Specifically the controller can calculate a change on an antenna parameter e.g. antenna tilt for the multi mode antenna to meet the SON objectives for mode . The controller can communicate the calculated change to the controllers and such that changes on non antenna parameters can be made with respect to the other modes e.g. modes and accordingly to maintain inter modal relationships between the other modes and mode . For instance the controller can calculate a non antenna parameter change e.g. pilot power based on the change on the antenna parameter and implement the non antenna parameter change at the non antenna element such that the coverage of mode is unaffected. Similarly the controller can calculate a non antenna parameter change based on the change on the antenna parameter and implement the non antenna parameter change at the non antenna element such that the service quality of mode is unaffected. In some embodiments the non antenna elements used for inter modal relationship coordination can be the same or different from the non antenna elements used for implementing the SON objectives of one or more modes. For example the non antenna element for inter modal relationship for mode can be the same or different from the non antenna element for implementing the SON objectives for mode .

As an example a downtilt in the common multi mode antenna driven by an instruction or signal based on the SON algorithm for mode can be compensated by an increase in the pilot power of the signal associated with mode . Conversely an uptilt in the common multi mode antenna driven by an instruction or signal based on the SON algorithm for mode can be compensated by a decrease in the pilot power of the signal associated with mode .

In some embodiments the calculations for antenna parameter modifications and or non antenna parameter modifications can be performed at each mode specific controller for the corresponding mode. For example the calculations for non antenna parameter modifications for mode and can be performed at the controller and respectively. Alternatively as shown and described with respect to calculations for modifications on antenna parameters and or non antenna parameters associated with the multiple modes can be performed at a centralized location such as a network optimization device e.g. implemented at a centralized controller not shown in similar to the network optimization device or .

At the network optimization device can receive a performance indicator associated with a first mode from a set of modes. The set of modes can be associated with a cellular network area. In some embodiments the set of modes can include various RATs operating in the same frequency band and or different frequency bands and or specific RAT s operating in the same frequency band and or different frequency bands. The performance indicator for the first mode can be associated with an optimization objective for the first mode. In some embodiments the performance indicator can be for example a KPI. In some embodiments the network optimization device can receive the performance indicator at for example a network optimization module e.g. the network optimization module in or a SON implementation module e.g. the SON implementation module in .

At the network optimization device can calculate a first metric value using the performance indicator associated with the first mode. Such a calculated first metric value can be associated with a first metric and an objective of the first mode. Particularly the first metric value can be calculated in a method such that the resulted first metric value when implemented at corresponding network device s can cause the performance of the first mode to satisfy or substantially satisfy the objective of the first mode. In some embodiments the first metric can be for example an antenna based metric e.g. a tilt of an antenna or a parameter based metric e.g. a power level of the first mode . Correspondingly the first metric value can be an antenna based metric value or a parameter based metric value. In some embodiments the objective of the first mode can be a SON objective. In some embodiments the calculation can be operated at the network optimization module or the SON implementation module of the network optimization device as described above with respect to .

At the network optimization device can calculate a second metric value using the first metric value. Such a calculated second metric value can be associated with a second metric and an objective of a second mode from the set of modes. As a result the second metric value can at least partially compensate for a change in a performance indicator associated with the second mode when the first metric value is implemented. Similar to the first metric value the second metric can be an antenna based metric value or a parameter based metric value. In some embodiments the objective of the second mode can be the same objective as or a different objective from the objective of the first mode. In some embodiments the performance indicator associated with the second mode can be associated with an inter modal relationship between the first mode and the second mode. In some embodiments the calculation of the second metric value can be operated at for example a network optimization module e.g. the network optimization module in or a performance compensation module e.g. the performance compensation module in of the network optimization device.

At the network optimization device can send a signal associated with the first metric value and a signal associated with the second metric value to for example at least one antenna module associated with the cellular network area assume both the first metric value and the second metric value are antenna parameter values. As a result the at least one antenna module can implement the first metric value and the second metric value. In some embodiments the first metric value and the second metric value can be implemented at a single antenna. In some other embodiments the first metric value and the second metric value can be implemented at different antennas.

While shown in as being included in the processor of the network optimization device or in the processor of the network optimization device in other embodiments a network optimization module a SON implementation module or a performance compensation module can communicate with any other device of the multi mode wireless network via an application programming interface API of a network module and or application a network process an intermediary device and or any other suitable means. Additionally a network optimization device e.g. the network optimization device in can receive network information and or data e.g. performance indicators characteristic patterns from a network database e.g. the network database in or any other device in any suitable format such as for example text files a file format associated with a network and or the like. Similarly the network optimization device can send instructions of parameter changes to network elements in any suitable means.

While shown and described with respect to as two different designs of a network optimization device in other embodiments such two designs can be combined or partially combined in a network optimization device. For example a network optimization device can include one or more SON implementation modules operating similarly as the network optimization modules in as well as one or more performance compensation modules operating similarly as the performance compensation module in .

Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a non transitory computer readable medium also can be referred to as a non transitory processor readable medium having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The computer readable medium or processor readable medium is non transitory in the sense that it does not include transitory propagating signals per se e.g. a propagating electromagnetic wave carrying information on a transmission medium such as space or a cable . The media and computer code also can be referred to as code may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of non transitory computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic storage media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical storage media such as Compact Disc Digital Video Discs CD DVDs Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical storage media such as optical disks carrier wave signal processing modules and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Read Only Memory ROM and Random Access Memory RAM devices. Other embodiments described herein relate to a computer program product which can include for example the instructions and or computer code discussed herein.

Examples of computer code include but are not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example embodiments may be implemented using Java C or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include but are not limited to control signals encrypted code and compressed code.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Where methods described above indicate certain events occurring in certain order the ordering of certain events may be modified. Additionally certain of the events may be performed concurrently in a parallel process when possible as well as performed sequentially as described above. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

