---

title: Systems, computer implemented methods, geographic weather-data selection interface display, and computer readable medium having program products to generate user-customized virtual weather data and user-customized weather-risk products responsive thereto
abstract: Systems, computer implemented methods, and computer readable medium having program products are provided to customize by a user weather-risk products and to provide a customized weather-risk product to be purchased by user. Embodiments of a system include a tract-user computer having a display to display graphical user interfaces to a user and an input to receive user selections, the tract-user computer being connected to a communications network to receive graphical user interfaces and transmit user selections to a weather-risk product issuer computer. Embodiments of a system can also include a database to associate user selections with actuarial data, location data, and basis weather data and a weather-risk product issuer computer to transmit graphical user interfaces to the tract-user computer, receive user selections, and process user selections to generate virtual weather data and to generate weather-risk products.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306811&OS=09306811&RS=09306811
owner: WATTS AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
number: 09306811
owner_city: Billings
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131016
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to and benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 540 436 titled Systems Computer Implemented Methods Geographic Weather Data Selection Interface Display and Computer Readable Medium Having Program Products to Generate User Customized Virtual Weather Data and User Customized Weather Risk Products Responsive Thereto and filed Jul. 2 2011 which is a non provisional application that relates to claims priority to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 505 457 titled Systems Computer Implemented Methods and Computer Readable Program Products to Generate User Customized Virtual Weather Data and User Customized Weather Risk Products Responsive Thereto and filed on Jul. 7 2011 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to the field of weather risk management. More specifically embodiments of the present invention allow a user to customize a virtual weather data station so that weather risk products can be customized and generated responsive thereto.

Many businesses face economic risks associated with weather. Conventional weather risk management tools are extremely technical i.e. accessible only to experts require long periods of time for statistical analysis or are characterized by substantial basis risk i.e. the location of the weather monitoring location is distant from the location of the business at risk . Several attempts have been made by others to offer an automated real time weather risk management systems for the sales of weather derivatives. For example various internet sites have marketed weather index based derivatives but none of these have offered an intuitive user interface to customize the configuration of weather derivatives a user controlled automated multiple weather station basis a user controlled automated multiple risk basis and the ability to close the sale of a weather risk derivative over the internet.

In further detail conventional systems for weather risk management exhibit several disadvantages that limit the ability of a weather risk product to accurately reflect the actual weather related risk for a particular land area relating to the coverage of the weather risk product a covered area . Such disadvantages relate most generally to the fact that weather risk products are conventionally generated based on historical weather readings at a point e.g. a weather station that may not accurately reflect the weather risk for a covered area not congruent with that weather station. The difference between the historical weather readings at such a weather station and the actual weather historical or future for the covered area can be referred to as basis error. The potential for basis error is disadvantageous for both the buyers and sellers of weather risk products because the terms of an error based weather risk product may favor one party or the other depending on the nature of the basis error. A weather risk product buyer for example may suffer by paying a higher premium or by not receiving payment i.e. settlement for coverable weather events due to basis error. And on the other hand a weather risk product seller or provider for example may suffer by receiving a lower premium from the buyer or by over paying for coverable weather events.

Embodiments of the invention provide access to a wide variety of weather risk management instruments and address the foregoing problems in conventional weather risk management. For example applicants provide solutions that overcome problems in the art due to highly technical interfaces requirements for intensive manual statistical analysis or substantial risk of basis error basis risk . Applicants recognize for example that existing weather risk management tools such as weather rated weather adjusted derivative products for minor agricultural crops collectively exhibited substantial basis risk and were not easily accessible to many markets because of the complexity of their structures and the jargon employed therein so as to facilitate trading in derivatives markets.

Applicants recognize the foregoing disadvantages and applicants further recognize that the foregoing disadvantages are most acute when a weather station relied upon in generating or settling a weather risk product is not selected or weighted uniquely for the covered area or for the type of weather risk. Moreover applicants recognize that one or more weather stations relied upon in generating or settling a weather risk product can more effectively be uniquely selected or weighted for the covered area and for the type of weather risk by a user that is knowledgeable of the geographic and meteorological characteristics of the covered area and various related weather stations. Applicants also recognize that one or more weather stations relied upon in generating or settling a weather risk product can more effectively be uniquely selected or weighted for the covered area and for the type of weather risk by a user that is knowledgeable of the risk portfolio for the covered area for example including weather risk associated with one or more uses of the covered area.

Applicants provide embodiments of the present invention to allow a user using a user interface display that is displayed for example on a computer to uniquely select or weight a plurality of weather stations for the covered area and for the type of weather risk and the unique user selections and weightings are used in generating and settling customized weather risk products for the user. Embodiments of the present invention for example allow a user to customize a virtual weather data station so that weather risk products can be customized and generated responsive thereto.

Applicants further recognize that weather stations relied upon in generating and settling a weather risk product can more effectively be uniquely selected or weighted for the covered area and for the type of weather risk by a user when immediately before generating the weather risk product the user is able to interactively i graphically select a plurality of weather stations that is unique for the covered area ii simulate the historical performance of a proposed weather risk product according to the unique selections and weightings iii to confirm the suitability of the proposed weather risk product with respect to the historical weather events corresponding to a particular risk type at the covered area and iv if need be revise the unique selections or weightings based on the original simulation for the purposes of generating a new simulation with respect to the revised unique selections or weightings.

Although such embodiments advantageously allow a user to minimize basis risk embodiments of the present invention are not so limited for such a purpose and embodiments of the invention can also be utilized by a user who is not primarily intending to minimize basis risk for example a user intending to graphically select a plurality of user selected weather stations. Embodiments of the present invention advantageously allow a user to graphically select a plurality of user selected weather stations which can be systematically weighted on an equal basis so as to simplify and minimize the degree of analysis and interaction with the user interface display required of the user.

Applicants further provide an enhanced weather risk management system incorporating enhanced weather data management algorithms a simple user interface enhanced algorithms to generate the weather risk product user controlled automated multiple station indices user controlled automated multiple risk structure or elements of an enhanced historical weather record reporting. Embodiments of the invention provide for example a weather risk management derivative platform built upon an enhanced temperature and precipitation dataset and a user friendly web based mechanism to customize and market weather derivatives over the Internet. The user performed customization is supported by enhanced algorithms and software that automate real time evaluation of the probability and severity of user selected weather risks and by a highly customizable set of basis weather data.

Certain embodiments of the invention provide systematic and web deployed sales and settlement of weather risk products. In such embodiments weather risk products are generated systematically responsive to a custom risk assessment rating which can be determined immediately upon receiving a user s i.e. a potential customer selections with respect to a user defined risk management approach. Further yet certain embodiments of the invention allow a user to make selections with respect to a user defined risk management approach including selections for temperature or precipitation risks and selections of a custom geographic coverage area. Even further yet certain embodiments of the invention allow users to explore the costs and historical performance for a user defined risk management approach redefine a new user defined risk management approach if the costs and historical performance are unsatisfactory and explore the costs and historical performance of the new user defined risk management approach to be repeated as it suits the user. Enhanced systematic risk analysis according to embodiments of the invention advantageously encourages customers to explore the potential costs and simulate historical performance of a variety of risk management approaches. Beneficially the weather risk product provider can enhance the potential that a user will perceive one or more of the user defined approaches to be suitable and commit to purchase a risk management product for such an approach.

Any of the foregoing user related functions of the invention can be implemented using one or more enhanced graphical user interfaces e.g. using a user computer display to facilitate interaction between the user and the systematic elements of the of the invention e.g. on a server computer processor. Elements of enhanced graphical user interfaces according to embodiments of the present invention can be provided so as to be familiar to virtually any potential user for example by using a readily recognizable geographic map image and references to simple weather related concepts such as temperature or precipitation minima and maxima.

In certain embodiments weather risk products can be generated responsive to an enhanced weather dataset. The enhanced weather dataset can be created for example using National Climate Data Center NCDC data having daily weather readings for each of a plurality of weather stations which can be cleaned filled and back cast as needed using various algorithms. There can be different types of weather stations for example including informational and enhanced weather stations. Informational stations are stations having data that can be utilized in filling missing and backcasting historical data for each of the enhanced weather stations. Enhanced stations are stations to be potentially utilized according to embodiments of the invention. Given that more stations report daily precipitation PROP data than minimum temperature TMIN and maximum temperature TMAX data embodiments of the invention are able to systematically fill or backcast the weather readings of each enhanced weather station independently using data from all suitable informational stations reporting a type of weather reading on a given day. Embodiments of the invention contemplate using various algorithms to identify suitable informational and enhanced stations some of which are described herein and are within the scope of embodiments of the invention.

In embodiments of the invention allowing a user to select a customized geographic scale the enhanced weather dataset includes customized or virtual weather data responsive to the user s selections. Virtual weather data can include for example weighted weather data from one or more user selected weather stations. The virtual weather data can be said to be sourced from a virtual weather data station which represents an ideal hypothetical weather station having virtual weather data that most accurately reflects the weather for the covered area. Accordingly the enhanced weather dataset can provide for example substantially more data sampling locations than have been available in conventional weather risk management solutions and thereby minimize the potential for basis error and basis risk.

Basis error can be introduced for example by reliance on weather readings from a single weather station that is not within the covered area or when there is a significant variance between the weather at the weather station and the weather on the covered area. For example a risk product may be based on weather readings from a weather station that is at a higher altitude than the covered area and experiences weather that is inconsistent with that of the covered area. Basis error can be introduced for example by reliance on weather readings from more than one weather station not within the covered area or when there is a significant variance among the weather at the different weather stations or there is a significant variance between the weather at one or more of the weather stations and the weather at the covered area. For example a risk product may be based on weather readings from weather stations some of which are at the same altitude and others of which are at a different altitude than the covered area and any of which can experience weather that is inconsistent from that of each other and of the covered area.

Basis error can also be introduced for example by reliance on an incomplete history of weather readings from one or more weather stations. A history of weather readings can be incomplete for example if it is missing data within the reporting timeframe for the weather station such as due to an outage or an infrequent reporting rate or if it is missing data outside of the reporting timeframe for the weather station such as for a newly installed weather station with respect to weather readings before the installation .

An exemplary embodiment of the invention includes a system to customize a weather risk product for a tract by a user and to provide a customized weather risk product for a tract to be purchased by user.

An exemplary system can include for example a tract user computer having a display device to display one or more graphical user interfaces to a user and one or more input devices to receive one or more user selections at the one or more graphical user interfaces. The tract user computer can be connected to a communications network so that the tract user computer can receive the one or more graphical user interfaces and transmit the one or more user selections to a remote computer such as a weather risk product issuer computer.

An exemplary system can also include for example a database to associate the one or more user selections with one or more of weather risk actuarial data weather station location data for each of a plurality of weather stations and weather station basis weather data for each of the plurality of weather stations.

An exemplary system can also include for example a weather risk product issuer computer connected to the database and to the communications network. The weather risk product issuer computer can be owned operated or maintained for example by a risk product issuing entity. The weather risk product issuer computer can transmit the one or more graphical user interfaces to the tract user computer receive the one or more user selections and process the one or more user selections to generate a virtual weather data for a tract and to generate a weather risk products for the tract.

In an exemplary system the weather risk product issuer computer can include for example a processor a non transitory memory positioned in communication with the processor to store computer program product therein and an input output unit connected to the processor and the non transitory memory the input output unit adapted to be in communication with one or more tract user computers through the communications network to transmit one or more graphical user interfaces to the one or more tract user computers and to receive one or more user selections responsive thereto.

In an exemplary system the weather risk product issuer computer can include for example a computer program product defining a virtual weather data station designer stored in the non transitory memory and operable on the processor the virtual weather data station designer having a set of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform one or more operations as can be shown with reference to .

One operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating a geographic weather data selection interface to display at the tract user computer. The geographic weather data selection interface can include a geographic map image corresponding to a geographic coordinate system a plurality of weather station markers being overlaid on the geographic map image each of the plurality of weather station markers being positioned thereon responsive to weather station location data corresponding to the geographic coordinate system. The geographic weather data selection interface allows a user at the tract user computer to graphically select a plurality of geographic parameters for the tract by positioning a cursor on the geographic map image at one or more positions corresponding to a tract location in the geographic coordinate system each of plurality of geographic parameters corresponding to the geographic coordinate system and to transmit the plurality of geographic parameters to the weather risk product issuer computer.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example determining a plurality of weather station identifiers responsive to receiving the plurality of geographic parameters from the tract user computer each of the plurality of weather station identifiers corresponding to the weather station location data for a respective weather station having a weather station location near the tract location in the geographic coordinate system.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating a source selection interface to display at the tract user computer responsive to the plurality of weather station identifiers the source selection interface allowing the user to select a plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and a plurality of user selected weather station weights each of the plurality of the user selected weather station identifiers corresponding to one of the plurality of user selected weather station weights and to transmit to the weather risk product issuer computer the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example storing A the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights in the non transitory memory responsive to receiving each of the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights from the tract user computer so that virtual weather data for the tract may be generated responsive thereto.

In an exemplary system the weather risk product issuer computer can include for example a computer program product defining a virtual weather data generator stored in the non transitory memory and operable on the processor the virtual weather data generator having a set of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform one or more operations as can be shown with reference to .

One operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example determining a plurality of station specific weather histories responsive to the plurality of user selected weather stations each of the plurality of station specific weather histories corresponding to a respective weather station for the each of the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating virtual weather data responsive to the plurality of station specific weather histories and the plurality of user selected weather station weights each of the plurality of station specific weather histories being weighted by a one of the plurality of user selected weather station weights for the respective weather station the virtual weather data being a user weighted composite weather history for the tract.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example storing A the virtual weather data in the non transitory memory so that a customized weather risk product for the tract can be generated responsive thereto.

In an exemplary system the weather risk product issuer computer can include for example a computer program product defining weather risk product generator stored in the non transitory memory and operable on the processor the weather risk product generator having a set of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform one or more operations as can be shown with reference to .

One operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating a weather risk selection interface to display at the tract user computer the weather risk selection interface allowing the user at the tract user computer to select a plurality of user selected weather risk parameters and to transmit the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters to the weather risk product issuer computer the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters including each of a concern type a risk type for the concern type a risk tolerance range for the concern type and a risk endurance range for the concern type.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example determining timeframe specific virtual weather data responsive to the virtual weather data and to one or more of the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters received from the tract user computer.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example determining a plurality of customized contract terms responsive to the timeframe specific virtual weather data and to one or more of the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters the plurality of customized contract terms including each of a contract price a contract premium and a payout rate.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating a weather risk confirmation interface responsive to the timeframe specific virtual weather data the customized contract terms and the user selected weather risk parameters the weather risk confirmation interface to display at the tract user computer the weather risk confirmation interface comprising a first time plot of the timeframe specific virtual weather data the risk tolerance range of the user selected weather risk parameters being overlaid on the first time plot and a second time plot of the payout scale applied to the timeframe specific virtual weather data the weather risk confirmation interface thereby allowing the user to observe hypothetical historical performance of the plurality of customized contract terms with respect to the timeframe specific virtual weather data and the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters the weather risk confirmation interface allowing the user to transmit either of a purchase request and a reset request to weather risk product issuer computer.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example regenerating one of the geographic weather data selection interface and the source selection interface responsive to receiving a reset request so that the user can configure a new virtual weather data station and generate new virtual weather data responsive thereto.

Another operation that can be performed by the processor of the weather risk product issuer computer in an exemplary system includes for example generating a customized weather risk product responsive to receiving a purchase request the customized weather risk product corresponding to the plurality of customized contract terms and the user selected weather risk parameters so that customized weather risk product can be purchased by the user to allow settlement i.e. monetizing an outcome according to customized contract terms for one or more future weather events on the tract that satisfy the user selected weather risk parameters.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which illustrate various embodiments of the invention. This invention however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. It is to be fully recognized that the different teachings of the various embodiments discussed below may be employed separately or in any suitable combination to produce desired results. The various characteristics mentioned above as well as other features and characteristics described in more detail below will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the following detailed description of the various embodiments and by referring to the accompanying drawings.

In the drawings and description that follow like parts are marked throughout the specification and drawings with the same reference numerals respectively. Prime notation if used indicates similar elements in alternative embodiments. The drawings are not necessarily to scale. Certain features of the disclosure may be shown exaggerated in scale or in somewhat schematic form and some details of conventional elements may not be shown in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

As is perhaps best illustrated by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention beneficially can include weather risk product customization system . The weather risk product customization system allows potential purchasers of weather risk products which are also referred to as customers or users herein to select and customize the basis for one or more weather risk products to select and customize the weather risk products themselves and to interactively generate and purchase a weather risk product reflecting the user s selections and customizations. A weather risk product can be used for example by organizations or individuals to manage or reduce risk associated with adverse or unexpected weather conditions such as a weather derivative an insurance contract or other type of financial or contractual instrument.

In particular the weather risk product customization system allows a user to customize a so called virtual weather data station for a tract so that virtual weather data can be generated for the virtual weather data station for the tract and a customized weather risk product can be customized and generated responsive to the virtual weather data for the virtual weather data station for the tract. The customized weather risk product can be selected customized generated and purchased for example by one or more users also called tract users according to various embodiments of the present invention such as the exemplary embodiments illustrated in . Exemplary embodiments of the present invention also advantageously provide for example computer readable program products and computer implemented methods to customize a virtual weather data station for a tract so that virtual weather data can be generated for the virtual weather data station and a weather risk product can be customized and generated responsive to the virtual weather data.

As can be shown with reference to a weather risk product customization system such as weather risk product customization system can include for example a communications network one or more tract user computers risk product issuer computer and a database . Also as can be shown with reference to the weather risk product customization system can include for example a virtual weather data station designer computer a virtual weather data generator computer and a weather risk product generator computer which can also be in communication with one or more tract user computers and a database via a communications network . The risk product customization system also includes for example one or more source weather databases which can be connected to the risk product issuer computer or database for example over the communications network . The communications network can include any one or more telephony network a wire line network a wireless network a wide area network a local area network an infrared network a radio frequency network an optical network or any other communications network now or hereinafter created as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. In certain embodiments for example there may be a direct connection between risk product issuer computer and any of the one or more source weather databases for example using a dedicated telecommunications line. Each of the one or more tract user computers provides the physical interface that allows a corresponding tract user to interact with the risk product customization system.

The tract user can be any human being having an interest or acting as an agent or on behalf of another human being or on behalf of an organization having an interest in one or more assets properties operations activities or other interests occurring at on near or as relates to a tract. As used herein a tract is an area of earth surface and can include without limitation any land water or land and water on the earth surface. Use of a tract includes not only the use of the land or water on the earth surface but also the of the minerals or reservoirs below the earth surface resources growing on in or from the earth surface and the airspace above the earth surface. Although the invention is not so limited certain embodiments of the invention are described with respect to a tract user that is an owner or operator of a farm or a ranch. The embodiments described herein are equally applicable as will be appreciated by those having skill in the art to other assets properties operations activities or other interests that relate to a tract such as a transit service related to a route or a hydro electric power generation service related to a watershed for example.

A virtual weather data station is a hypothetical or simulated weather station that can be assumed to relate to past present or future weather on a particular tract or in the vicinity of particular tract. A virtual weather data station is not an actual weather station but a virtual weather data station may be responsive to a plurality of actual weather stations. Because the virtual weather data station is not an actual weather station the properties of the virtual weather data station depend on the customization or configuration of the virtual weather data station. A virtual weather data station includes virtual weather data which is a weighted aggregation of weather data for two or more actual weather stations. Because virtual weather data is never a precise representation of the actual weather for the tract customization and configuration of the virtual weather data station for the tract is critical to ensure the most realistic modeling of the actual weather by the virtual weather data for example by minimizing the variance between the virtual weather data and the actual weather for the tract.

Weather data can include without limitation actual weather readings as well as back casted weather readings. Actual weather readings include for example readings at an actual weather station for weather parameters such as precipitation temperature wind barometric pressure and so on. Back casted weather readings are systematically generated hypothetical weather readings for a primary actual weather station that are generated based on actual weather readings at one or more secondary actual weather stations near the primary actual weather station. Back casted weather readings can be used for example when the quality quantity or quality and quantity of actual weather readings for the primary actual weather station is inferior to the quality or quantity of actual weather readings for one or more secondary weather stations near the primary actual weather station.

As used herein the term near as in whether a location of a weather station is near the location of a tract or another weather station shall not be limited by any fixed or bounded measure of distance. Rather one location is near another location when the weather at either location is significantly related to the weather at the other location. Weather at one location is significantly related to the weather at another location when the weather at either location can be estimated approximated simulated forecast or otherwise represented responsive to the weather at the other location whether in whole or in part.

Embodiments of the invention related to a geographic coordinate system which will be appreciated by those having skill in the art to include any coordinate system that allows one or more locations within the tract on the earth surface to be specified by one or more numbers. One or more locations within the tract may be collectively referred to herein as the location of the tract and can include for example locations of the vertices center point or other significant points within the tract. The geographic coordinate system can include a set of coordinates chosen such that one or more of the numbers represents one of a latitude a longitude and an elevation. The geographic coordinate system may also allow for the definition of one or more scalar or vector values with respect to one or more other coordinates. For example one set of geographic coordinates may specify the latitude longitude and elevation of a single point on the earth surface and a scalar or vector value may be a distance of a second point from that single point. The distance can be for example expressed in terms of degrees minutes and seconds of latitude and longitude or in terms of scalar or vector distance metrics such as miles kilometers or nautical miles for example. For example coordinates can define the absolute location e.g. a latitude a longitude and an elevation of a first point being a northwest vertex of a rectangle and a relative location e.g. a distance and a direction of a second point being a southeast vertex of that rectangle together the first point and the second point define the area of a rectangular tract. Also for example coordinates can define the absolute location e.g. a latitude a longitude and an elevation of a first point being a center point of a circle and a relative location e.g. a radial distance of a second point being a on the circumference of that circle together the first point and the second point define the area of a circular tract. Other coordinate based scalar based or vector based means of representing points or areas including irregular polygonal areas on the earth surface will be apparent to those having skill in the art and are within the scope of this disclosure.

A tract specific weather risk product is an intangible having commercial value that allows party to receive compensation monetarily or otherwise contingent upon the occurrence of future weather events as defined by future weather data including actual or virtual weather data relating to a tract and that is valued in part responsive to past weather data including actual or virtual weather data relating to the tract. By way of example if a tract relates to a farm a weather risk product can allow the farm to protect the value of its farming operation against crop loss due to excessively cold temperatures. By way of further example if a tract relates to a transit route weather risk products can allow a shipping company to protect the value of its shipping operation against reduced shipping volume due to icing i.e. excessively cold temperatures and excessive precipitation . By way of further example if a tract relates to a watershed weather risk products can allow a hydro electric power generator to protect the value of its generating operation against reduced power output due to insufficient precipitation. Other examples will be apparent from the description herein and are within the scope of this disclosure.

As can be shown with reference to embodiments of the invention are accessed by a user at a computer . The user is a user of the computer and can also be for example a user of the tract an agent of the user of the tract a principal of the user of the tract an employee of the user of the tract an employer of the user of the tract or any other person having an interest in or relating to the tract. As referenced herein a user or a tract user means to any type of user described herein such as user and a computer or a tract user computer means any type of computer such as computer described herein.

The user interacts with the computer through various input peripherals and display peripherals which can be included in the computer . The user interacts with display peripherals for example to observe user interfaces being displayed thereon and to observe input being entered by the user through an input peripheral. The user interacts with input peripherals for example to respond to user interfaces being displayed on the display peripheral such as to make an input or a selection with respect to the user interface being displayed on the display peripheral.

The user computer can be for example any type of stationary or portable personal computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer micro computer mini computer notebook computer ultra mobile computer tablet computer handheld computer mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA so called Smartphone or any other computing device intended to be operated directly by an end user with no intervening computer operator as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The user computer can include for example a keyboard a mouse a graphical user interface device a display a microphone electronic speakers a modem a LAN card a computer graphics card a printer a scanner a disk drive a tape drive a camera a Wi Fi card a PCMCIA card or any other peripheral device as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. If the user computer is a mobile device as is known and understood by those skilled in the art the mobile device can include but is not limited to a cell phone device a handheld device a handheld computer a palmtop a handheld device or any other mobile computing device. Such a mobile device can also include for example a display screen with a touch input user interface or a miniature keyboard or a touch screen interface. A PDA can include for example a processor memory an input device and an output device. Additionally a PDA for instance can include a palmtop computer a Smartphone a palm device a portable media player a Wi Fi enabled device a global positioning system device or any other handheld computing device now or hereinafter developed as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. Embodiments having one or more user computers as a laptop computer include for example the Apple MacBook MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product families the Dell Inspiron and Latitude product families the Lenovo ThinkPad and IdeaPad product families the Panasonic Toughbook product families and the Toshiba Satellite product families. Examples of embodiments having one or more user computer as a Smartphone include for example the iPhone 3GS and the iPhone 4 by Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and the Droid by Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg Ill.

As can be shown with reference to computer can include according to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention at least a memory a processor and an input output device . As used herein the processor can include for example one or more micro processors microcontrollers and other analog or digital circuit components configured to perform the functions described herein. The processor is the brains of the computer and as such can execute computer program product or products.

The processor can be any commercially available terminal processor or plurality of terminal processors adapted for use in or with the computer . The processor can be for example the Intel Xeon multicore terminal processors Intel micro architecture Nehalem and AMD Opteron multicore terminal processors Intel Core multicore processors Intel Core 2 Duo multicore processors and other processors with single or multiple cores as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The processor can be operated by operating system software installed on memory such as Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows XP UNIX or UNIX like family of systems including BSD and GNU Linux and Mac OS X. The processor can also be for example the TI OMAP 3430 Arm Cortex A8 Samsung S5PC100 or Apple A4. The operating system for the processor can further be for example the Symbian OS Apple iOS Blackberry OS Android Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Phone 7 or PalmOS.

The computer can further include a non transitory memory or more than one non transitory memories referred to as memory herein . Memory can be configured for example to store data including computer program product or products which include instructions for execution on the processor . Memory can include for example both non volatile memory e.g. hard disks flash memory optical disks and the like and volatile memory e.g. SRAM DRAM and SDRAM as required to support embodiments of the instant invention. As one skilled in the art will appreciate though the memory is depicted on e.g. a motherboard of the computer the memory can also be a separate component or device e.g. flash memory connected to the computer through an input output unit or a transceiver not shown . As one skilled in the art will understand the program product or products along with one or more databases data libraries data tables data fields or other data records can be stored either in memory or in separate memory also non transitory for example associated with a storage medium such as a database locally accessible to the computer positioned in communication with the computer through the I O .

The memory of the tract user computer for example can further include applications drivers modules libraries or engines that allow the tract user computer to have interactive client side interface capabilities including for example a web browser application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. having capabilities for processing interactive content such as Java JavaScript or Flash plug ins or scripts.

According to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention the communications network can connect the computer the database and to other computers devices modules or other components of system . As one skilled in the art will appreciate the communications network can connect all of the system components using a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or a combination thereof. For example components of system can be privately networked or privately tunneled over a public network to allow for faster more secure communication and better data synchronization between computing nodes. Also for example some of the system components can be networked using a LAN and adapted to be in communication with the computer using a WAN. Accordingly though not all such configurations are depicted all are within the scope of various exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

Communications network can include for example any public or private network communication paths to support the communications sent and received between system components including the public Internet a private intranet a virtual private network VPN tunneled across the public Intranet for example using a network security protocol such as Netscape s Secure Socket Layer SSL protocol. The communications network can be for example a telecommunication network including a wire based telephone network pager network cellular network or a combination thereof and a computer network. Accordingly the communications network can be implemented in whole or in part over wireless communications network. In addition according to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention the wireless communications network can be implemented over any of various wireless communication technologies for example code division multiplexed access CDMA time division multiplexed access TDMA frequency division multiplexed access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiplexed access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS 802.11a b g n WiFi World Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or Bluetooth.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate and is perhaps best illustrated by memory and the processor can also include for example components e.g. drivers libraries and supporting hardware connections that allow the tract user computer to be connected to a display peripheral device and an input peripheral device that allow a user direct access to the processor and the memory .

The display peripheral device can be for example a computer monitor which may also be known in the art as a display or a visual display unit. The display peripheral device also can include for example a display device which in modern monitors is typically a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD thin panel while older monitors use a cathode ray tube. The display peripheral device can include the display device the circuitry and the physical enclosure. The display peripheral device can be used in connection with interactive client side interface capabilities residing in memory to display interactive interfaces to a user at the provider computer such as the geographic weather data selection interface in source selection interface in weather risk selection interface in and weather risk confirmation interface in . As discussed in greater detail above the display peripheral device can also be a PDA and can function at the same time as a display peripheral device an input peripheral device and an output peripheral device.

The input peripheral device can be for example a computer keyboard computer mouse a touch screen such as a touch screen device comprising a display peripheral device a pen device character recognition device voice recognition device or a similar input device that will be known to those having skill in the art that allows the user at the tract user computer through mechanical electrical or mechanical and electrical means to send discrete or continuous signals to the processor . A status or other output associated with input peripheral device can be displayed at the display peripheral device such as for example mouse pointer or a keyboard prompt. The output of input peripheral device can be received by the processor for example as a selection or a command associated with an interactive client side interface such as the geographic weather data selection interface in source selection interface in weather risk selection interface in and weather risk confirmation interface in . An interactive client side interface may be configured for example to receive a selection or a command from the input peripheral and responsive thereto transmit data including content input by the user at the input peripheral device as well as other content as directed by the client side interface to other servers or systems through the input output unit .

Returning to embodiments of the present invention can provide for example a geographic weather data selection interface a source selection interface a weather risk selection interface and a weather risk confirmation interface all of which are a user interfaces displayed on a display at the computer . User interfaces can be for example web pages displayable through a web browser or any other interface of graphical user interfaces GUIs provided by an application applet or other computer program. Each of the foregoing interfaces can include for example one or more sub interfaces which are also user interfaces that can be accessed or called up from the main interface such as for example a pop up window a browser tab or a browser window.

Each of the foregoing user interfaces can be generated in whole or in part by computer or by any other computer accessible to computer over a network that can transmit the user interface to computer . Generating the user interface includes executing instructions stored on a computer readable medium to define the user interface on a computer readable medium for example so that the user interface can be displayed by a computer executing instructions to render the user interface as a user interface display on a display peripheral. Generating the user interface can include for example server side processing to dynamically generate the user interface responsive to variable inputs client side processing to dynamically generate or re generate the user interface responsive to variable inputs and server side or client side processing to serve or interpret static or dynamic data corresponding to the user interface.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that any of the interfaces described herein may be interactive interfaces. Interactive interfaces can be in whole or in part dynamically generated using server side processing such as PHP ASP ASP.NET and delivered to the computer in static mark up language such as HTML for display using a web browser and a display peripheral device as is perhaps best illustrated as in . Those having skill in the art will further appreciate that interactive interfaces such as the geographic weather data selection interface in source selection interface in weather risk selection interface in and weather risk confirmation interface in may be in whole or in part statically generated at a server such as the virtual weather risk product customization computer or one of the one or more web servers adapted to be in communication with the virtual weather risk product customization computer and delivered to the tract user computer for processing by the tract user computer using client side processing such as Java JavaScript or Flash for display at the tract user computer using the web browser and the display peripheral device .

According to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention database can be any database structure as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The databases discussed herein including database can be for example any sort of organized collection of data in digital form. Databases including database can include the database structure as well as the computer programs that provides database services to other computer programs or computers as defined by the client server model and any computer dedicated to running such computer programs i.e. a database server . An exemplary database model for example is Microsoft SQL Server 2005 or Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2. Databases can include a database management system DBMS consisting of software that operates the database provides storage access security backup and other facilities. DBMS can support multiple query languages including for example SQL XQuery OQL LINQ JDOQL and JPAQL. Databases can implement any known database model or database models including for example a relational model a hierarchical model a network model or an object oriented model. The DBMS can include Data Definition Language DDL for defining the structure of the database Data Control Language DCL for defining security access controls and Data Manipulation Language DML for querying and updating data. The DBMS can further include interface drivers which are code libraries that provide methods to prepare statements execute statements fetch results etc. Examples of interface drivers include ODBC JDBC MySQL PHP FireBird Python. DBMS can further include a SQL engine to interpret and execute the DDL DCL and DML statements which includes a compiler optimizer and executor. DBMS can further include engine a transaction engine to ensure that multiple SQL statements either succeed or fail as a group according to application dictates. DBMS can further include a relational engine to implement relational objects such as Table Index and Referential integrity constraints. DBMS can further include a storage engine to store and retrieve data from secondary storage as well as managing transaction commit and rollback backup and recovery etc.

Data stored in the databases can be updated as needed for example by a user with administrative access to the database to add new data to tables or libraries in the database as they become supported. It will be appreciated by those having skill in the art that data described herein as being stored in the databases can also be stored or maintained in non transitory memory and accessed among two or more subroutines functions modules objects program products or processes for example according to objects or variables of such subroutines functions modules objects program products or processes. Any of the fields of the records tables libraries and so on of the database can be multi dimensional structures resembling an array or matrix and can include values or references to other fields records tables or libraries. Any of the foregoing fields can contain either actual values or a link a join a reference or a pointer to other local or remote sources for such values.

Database can be for example a single database multiple databases or a virtual database including data from multiple sources for example servers on the World Wide Web. According to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention for example and as illustrated by database can include one or more databases including a weather data basis weather database a weather risk product session database a weather risk product administrative database and a weather risk product settlement database each of which can also be for example a single database multiple databases or a virtual database including data from multiple sources. In addition the database can include other databases or one or more tables within database to store weather risk actuarial data to allow determining contract parameters for weather risk products with respect to weather risk parameters. In addition the database can include other databases or one or more tables within database to store map data including for example one or more map images map feature data and data relating one or more map images and map feature data to a geographic coordinate system.

The weather data basis weather database can be configured for example to store any data related to weather stations that can be used as a basis for generating weather risk products including weather station identifiers weather station names weather station locations e.g. geographic coordinates and weather station basis weather data. Weather station basis weather data such as basis weather data as can be shown with reference to can include for example a plurality of daily weather records histories .

Basis weather data can include any historical weather data available or known to those having skill in the art. Basis weather data can be sourced for example from governmental agencies that record weather data in real time or store weather data in data centers electronically accessible to the public or to private partners. One such government agency is the National Climactic Data Center NCDC which is responsible for the compilation and management of weather data from over 75 U.S. departments and agencies. The NCDC maintains several weather databases one of which is the Quality Controlled Local Climate Data QCLCD a daily summary of weather data at automated stations primarily associated with air traffic. NCDC s quality control processes are primarily automated. Another NCDC database is the Global Historical Climatology Network GHCN database which contains historical temperature precipitation and pressure data for thousands of land stations worldwide and is more comprehensive than the QCLCD. United States federal weather data includes weather readings collected at approximately 25 000 weather stations of which approximately 8 000 can be considered active and Canadian weather data includes weather readings collected at approximately 5 000 active weather stations. In addition there are approximately 4 000 NCDC weather stations with both temperature and precipitation recording and approximately 1 600 airport weather stations although some of these lack long term historical records. In addition weather data is currently available from private sources which reflects approximately 1 000 to 5 000 weather stations and may or may not be built upon NCDC data. All or most of the publicly or privately available raw weather datasets include errors such as holes i.e. missing data or spurious data. Some of the private sources of weather data include filled data although some of the mechanisms employed to fill the holes disadvantageously dampen the variability in the data.

In further detail basis weather data can include for each reporting weather station identified by a weather station identifier WSID a precipitation value PRCP a temperature minimum value TMIN and a temperature maximum value TMAX for each measurement period DAY . As is further shown with reference to basis weather data can include weather data from actual weather readings which can be referred to as source data as well as weather data generated responsive to source data which can be referred to as derived data . Basis weather data including derived data can be referred to as enhanced basis weather data which is included in the definition of basis weather data .

As can be shown by reference to derived data can be generated responsive to data processing operations for example to clean fill or backcast source data downloaded from one or more source weather data database e.g. databases . Source weather data databases can include for example i NCDC GHCN database which includes historical weather data from 1950 to present ii NCDC database which includes historical weather data from 1950 to 2011 no longer updated by Government after April 2011 iii NCDC database which includes historical weather data from 1950 to present iv NCDC QCLCD database which includes historical weather data from 1950 to present for many potential agricultural stations and v WeatherBug database which includes recent potential additional agricultural stations.

The following description of process steps and can be performed for example by database servers or any of which can have a structure as illustrated with reference to weather station data updater of for example having a processor an input output unit connected to the processor and the communications network and thereby in communication with database memory with computer program product having instructions for executing steps or on the processor . Databases can be shown with reference to weather databases in which can also be connected to the communications network and thereby in communication with the weather station data updater . Memory processor and input output unit can be implemented in the manner as described with respect to memory processor and input output unit of the risk product issuer computer .

Source data can be downloaded for example as fixed field text files or comma delimited text files and imported into imported into SQL tables on a local data server for example which may be included in database . Raw data can then be prepared for processing by performing systematic organization and formatting steps to facilitate processing of minimum temperature maximum temperature and precipitation relative to station location. Included in the preparation for processing steps for example are the removal of weather readings in the source data that were flagged by the NCDC as missing and the replacement of trace precipitation values T a 0.01 inch value which is the smallest non zero precipitation value otherwise recorded in the NCDC dataset. Initial selection of weather stations for cleaning filling and backcasting can be performed for example for those weather stations that are likely to be useful for settlement. Initial selection can be determined for example responsive to the presence of both temperature and precipitation data the number of weather readings i.e. large history and the number of missing reports i.e. low frequency .

Data processing operations can include for example cleaning filing or backcasting weather readings in the source data to produce derived weather data which can be included in basis weather data . Data processing operations require for example a full raw dataset including those stations with limited data which can be constructed using local data server for this purpose. Although source weather data refers in the abstract to weather data downloaded from third party databases such as databases source weather data also includes the full raw dataset comprised of the collective weather data downloads from any or all third party databases.

Cleaning weather readings in the source data can include for example initial quality checks of the source data downloaded from third party weather databases such as databases to identify potential data reading errors including the systematic examination of records within the downloaded files with respect to NCDC quality flags associated with each weather reading and records with missing data can be classified accordingly rejected eliminated.

Filling and backcasting weather readings in the source data can include for example a preliminary classification of weather stations. In certain embodiments there can be different types of weather stations such as the so called informational and enhanced weather stations. Informational stations are stations whose data are utilized in filling missing and backcasting historical data for each of the enhanced weather stations. Enhanced stations are stations to be potentially utilized and insurable according to embodiments of the invention. Given that more stations report daily precipitation PRCP data than minimum temperature TMIN and maximum temperature TMAX data embodiments of the invention are able to systematically fill or backcast each enhanced weather station weather readings independently using data from all suitable informational stations reporting a type of weather reading on a given day.

Preliminary classification of weather stations includes determining for each weather station the number of non missing data observations by month and year. Weather stations having a first pre determined number of non missing data observations over the entire time period can be identified as potential informational stations. In certain embodiments 180 days year is sufficient as a first pre determined number of non missing data observations. Also weather stations having a second pre determined number of non missing data observations over the entire time period can be identified as potential enhanced stations. In certain embodiments 328 days year is sufficient as a second pre determined number of non missing data observations. The potential informational weather stations and the potential enhanced weather stations can then be used for example in filling or backcasting missing data for either the informational stations or the enhanced stations. In certain embodiments the source data can be further refined for example responsive to an analysis of NCDC assigned quality flags for the weather data. If a weather reading s assigned data measurement flag was coded as A B E M or S or if the data quality flag was coded as 2 3 5 A D F G H I 3 L M N T U or V the weather data can be treated as missing. Refining the source data can also include for example systematic operations to compare each weather readings for each weather station to the all time daily record in a given month for the home state of the weather station. Furthermore source data for the so called informative stations which includes the enhanced stations by definition can be resealed as necessary particularly in states with heterogeneous topology such as mountains coasts and so on. Source data that was sourced from certain databases such as the QCLCD database however generally requires no quality control corrections are necessary due to NCDC s own quality control process addressing data aberrations that would have been identified by these flags.

Filling operations are intended to fill minor holes in the source data . Filling of the source data can be performed for the enhanced weather stations in whole or in part for example by retaining valid weather readings from the given weather station which can be considered or flagged to be actual data and adding for any missing weather readings the weather readings from any one or more close weather stations that reported valid data on that day of the missing weather readings. In certain embodiments close weather stations may be within approximately 0.5 miles from the weather station for which the filling operation is performed the filled station . The added weather readings from the one or more close weather stations can also be considered or flagged as actual data and is included in the definition of derived weather data. The derived weather data resulting from the filling operation can include with respect to the filled station the location of the one or more proximate stations used in the filling operation as well as all NCDC data flags for the day from the weather data for the one or more proximate stations.

Compared to filling operations backcasting operations are intended to fill longer periods included open ended periods of missing data in the source data for example to allow a 30 year old weather station to be used in simulations covering 50 years of data. Weather data from the 20 years prior to the installation of the 30 year old weather station can be generated by the backcasting operations. Backcasting the source data or as the case may be the derived data resulting from the filling operation can be performed for the enhanced weather stations preferably after filling operations have been performed with respect to one or more weather stations for example by adding for any missing data the backcast data responsive to weather readings from any two or more area weather stations that reported valid data on the day of the missing weather readings. In certain embodiments area weather stations may be within approximately eight 8 miles from the weather station for which the backcasting operation is performed the backcast station . The backcast data can be determined responsive to probability data and distance data for each of the area stations. The probability data can be resealed to the backcast station s scaled weather units. The resealed values can then be used in systematic processing of inverse distance weighting algorithms with respect to the distance data and the weather data for the area stations. The backcast data is included in the definition of derived weather data and can further include with respect to the filled station the location of the one or more area stations used in the backcast operation as well as all NCDC data flags for the day from the weather data for the one or more area stations.

Analytic process can be performed upon the basis weather data which includes the source weather data and the derived weather data such as determining for each weather station a history length continuing reporting trends and a statistical character for minimum temperature maximum temperature and precipitation. Final selection of weather stations can be performed responsive to the analytic processing to divide stations into two or more categories in exemplary embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment a first category can include weather stations having a longer teem history e.g. x 30 years and exhibiting limited inter temporal temperature trends e.g. 0

Basis weather data can be categorized or flagged accordingly to represent whether the associated weather station is or is not frequently updated that is whether the weather station is automated and on the average reports weather data more frequently than other weather stations. Categorizing frequently updated weather stations accordingly advantageously allows a weather risk product to specifically based thereupon so that the weather risk product results in a faster settlement time. Stations that are not frequently updated may include for example other automated stations or stations for which weather data is collected manually from National Weather Service.

The foregoing steps of downloading source data preparing source data for processing cleaning filling or backcasting the source data can be performed a first time to build the database and can be performed at regular intervals e.g. weekly or quarterly or as frequently as needed with respect to the latest weather data to update the basis weather data with weather readings taken since the last performance. As can be shown with reference to the same steps of downloading source data preparing source data for processing cleaning filling or backcasting the source data can be re performed but downloading source data only from those weather databases that provide ongoing updates such as databases for example. For the purpose of re performing the forgoing steps the source data can include any or all of the basis weather data existing in the basis weather database immediately before the re performance pre existing basis weather data . After the re performance the basis weather data update includes the derived weather data resulting from the re performance. In addition preprocessing and exporting of the basis weather data update can be performed so that the basis weather database can merge the pre existing basis weather data and the basis weather data update to re define the most current version of the basis weather data . Pre processing can include for example analysis and recording of changes in any of the trend patterns previously observed in the analysis operation. Data to be imported into the basis weather database can be formatted for export to be joined to the pre existing basis weather data .

The weather risk product session database can be configured for example to store any data related to the operation of the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data generator and the weather risk product generator including a session identifier for each unique set of interactions with a tract user computer user name or user identifier to identify the tract user any of the virtual weather data station parameters any of the virtual weather data . The virtual weather data can be stored organized or configured in the same manner as is herein with respect to the basis weather data .

The weather risk product administrative database can be configured for example to store any data related to user accounts including user names user identifiers user addresses user membership information user payment records user settlement records data related to a user s tract data related to a user s compliance with quality control standards data related to weather risk products selected customized or purchased by a user and any other information related to a user including a tract user as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The weather risk product administration database can include another weather risk products inventory database not pictured for example to store any data related to weather risk products purchased by one or more users for example data related to the scope or extent of coverage of various weather risk products. For example the weather risk products inventory database can include data related to the geographic coordinates of the tract covered the amount of coverage provided the cost of various types of coverage the liability of various types of coverage or any other information related to coverage as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The weather risk products inventory database beneficially facilitates tracking confirmation and settlement of weather risk products associated with each of the one or more users or an aggregate weather risk product relating to two or more users.

The weather risk product settlement database can be configured for example to store any data related to the settlement of weather risk products including for example settlement data . The settlement data can be stored organized or configured in the same manner as is herein described with respect to the basis weather data . In addition the foregoing steps of downloading source data preparing source data for processing cleaning filling or backcasting the source data can be performed regular intervals e.g. weekly or daily with respect to latest weather data to provide current settlement data . Settlement data is a composite dataset maintained to allow settlement of weather risk products. Weather risk products can be analyzed with respect to the settlement data also on a regular basis to determine which weather risk products if any can be processed for settlement. As can be shown with reference to the same steps of downloading source data preparing source data for processing cleaning filling or backcasting the source data can be re performed but downloading source data only from those weather databases that provide ongoing updates such as databases for example. For the purpose of re performing the forgoing steps the source data can include any or all of the pre existing basis weather data. The settlement data can be stored at the settlement database and includes the derived weather data resulting from the re performance as well as any or all of the source weather data .

Certain exemplary embodiments of the invention include a weather risk product customization system having a virtual weather data station designer a virtual weather data generator and a weather risk product generator . The virtual weather data station designer virtual weather data generator and weather risk product generator can be for example computer program products virtual weather data station designer program product virtual weather data generator program product and a weather risk product customizer program product stored in computer readable memory of and executable on processors of one computer or more than one separate computers. As can be shown with reference to each of the virtual weather data station designer virtual weather data generator and weather risk product generator can be stored as program products on virtual weather data station designer computer virtual weather data generator computer and weather risk product customizer computer respectively in a respective memory and . Each of the computers and can be components of system and can be positioned in communication with other components of system such as one or more tract user computers through the communications network . Also as can be shown with reference to virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data generator and the weather risk product generator may be implemented as virtual weather data station designer program product virtual weather data generator program product and a weather risk product customizer program product respectively and stored in the non transitory memory of a risk product issuer computer connected to the communications network . Those having skill in the art will understand that other embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure such as those embodiments in which any one or more of the virtual weather data station designer program product virtual weather data generator program product and a weather risk product customizer program product are stored in the non transitory memory of any of the tract user computer the risk product issuer computer any of computers or any other one or more computers connected to communications network .

As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art computer program products described herein can be designed programmed compiled optimized executed or otherwise implemented according to any of various compatible programming languages standards libraries application programming interfaces protocols development environments or production environments. Exemplary embodiments of the invention described herein for example can be provided using ASP.Net 3.5 with Microsoft AJAX 2.0 Support AJAX Controls and AJAX Control Toolkit.

As can be shown with reference to computers can include according to various exemplary embodiments of the invention at least a memory a processor and an input output device . The processor can include for example one or more micro processors microcontrollers and other analog or digital circuit components configured to perform the functions described herein. The processor is the brains of the computer and as such can execute computer program product or products.

The processor can be any commercially available terminal processor or plurality of terminal processors adapted for use in or with the computers . The processor can be for example the Intel Xeon multicore terminal processors Intel micro architecture Nehalem and AMD Opteron multicore terminal processors Intel Core multicore processors Intel Core 8 Duo multicore processors and other processors with single or multiple cores as is known and understood by those skilled in the art. The processor can be operated by operating system software installed on memory such as Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows XP UNIX or UNIX like family of systems including BSD and GNU Linux and Mac OS X. The processor can also be for example the TI OMAP 3430 Arm Cortex A8 Samsung S5PC100 or Apple A4. The operating system for the processor can further be for example the Symbian OS Apple iOS Blackberry OS Android Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Phone 7 or PalmOS.

The computer can further include a non transitory memory or more than one non transitory memories referred to as memory herein . Memory can be configured for example to store data including computer program product or products which include instructions for execution on the processor . Memory can include for example both non volatile memory e.g. hard disks flash memory optical disks and the like and volatile memory e.g. SRAM DRAM and SDRAM as required to support embodiments of the instant invention. As one skilled in the art will appreciate though the memory is depicted on e.g. a motherboard of the computers the memory can also be a separate component or device e.g. flash memory connected to the computers through an input output unit or a transceiver not shown . As one skilled in the art will understand the program product or products along with one or more databases data libraries data tables data fields or other data records can be stored either in memory or in separate memory also non transitory for example associated with a storage medium such as a database locally accessible to the computers positioned in communication with the computers through the I O .

Moreover as is perhaps best illustrated in the weather risk product customization system can further include for example a traffic management server having at least a memory a processor and an input output device that is adapted to be in communication with one or more web servers each having at least a memory a processor and an input output device . The one or more web servers can be adapted to be in communication with the risk product issuer computer which in turn can be adapted to be in communication with the database . The traffic management server can in turn be adapted to be in communication with one or more tract user computers via the communications network . According to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention the traffic management server can be configured to analyze incoming data from the one or more tract user computers and route the incoming traffic from the one or more tract user computers to one of the one or more web servers based on the quantity of incoming data traffic and the quantity of data traffic currently being serviced by each of the one or more web servers .

Advantageously each of the web servers can be configured for example to display on one of the one or more tract user computers via the communications network one or more graphical user interfaces to facilitate selection customization confirmation and purchase of a unique customized weather risk product by a tract user according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention as further described with reference to .

For example the processor can execute computer program product or products stored in memory of the risk product issuer computer including for example a virtual weather data station designer program product to facilitate the selection by a user of virtual weather data station parameters for a virtual weather data station for a tract a virtual weather data generator program product to facilitate the generation of virtual weather data for a virtual weather data station for a tract and a weather risk product customizer program product to facilitate the selection by a user of customized contract parameters for a weather risk product the confirmation by a user of the hypothetical performance of the customized contract parameters with respect to the virtual weather data the generation of a customized weather risk product with respect to the customized contract parameters and the virtual weather data and the purchase by a user of the customized weather risk product.

Furthermore the processor upon executing the weather risk product customizer program product can be commanded by the user to re execute any of the virtual weather data station designer program product to facilitate the re selection by a user of revised virtual weather data station parameters for a virtual weather data station for a tract the virtual weather data generator program product to facilitate the re generation of revised virtual weather data for a virtual weather data station for a tract or the weather risk product customizer program product to facilitate the re selection by a user of revised customized contract parameters for a weather risk product the re confirmation by a user of the hypothetical performance of the revised customized contract parameters with respect to the revised virtual weather data the generation of a revised customized weather risk product with respect to the revised customized contract parameters and the revised virtual weather data and the purchase by a user of the revised customized weather risk product.

A risk product customization system according to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention can provide a framework and a construct for users such as for example farm operators to explore and customize the design and structure of weather risk products that reflect their risk management needs and to purchase a customized weather risk product reflecting customized parameters from one or more risk product issuing entities. The risk product customization system further allows the one or more risk product issuing entities to generate a customized virtual weather data station having virtual weather data according to the selections of one or more users. Accordingly the risk product customization system according to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention can also provide a framework and construct for users to explore and customize virtual weather data stations reflecting a unique applicability to the user s risk management needs and to purchase a customized weather risk product further reflecting the virtual weather data of the virtual weather data station from one or more risk product issuing entities.

The tract user can first select the geographic parameters of a virtual weather data station for the tract using a graphical user interface display. The geographic parameters can be selected with specific reference to a displayed map image including the tract and also including markers for weather stations on or near the user s tract. The geographic parameters can be graphically selected on the graphical user interface display so that the user appears to be selecting one or more weather station markers enclosed within a selection box a selection circle or other type of lasso selection tool that the user can control on the graphical user interface display.

The tract user can next select one or more individual weather stations i.e. user selected weather stations using a graphical user interface display that correspond to the weather station markers that were previously selected by being enclosed by the user within the selection box selection circle or other type of lasso selection tool. The user can then weight the user selected weather stations using a graphical user interface display to select user selected weights for the user selected weather stations according to the unique risk management needs of the tract user for example to design a hypothetical weather station that can be presumed to reflect the actual weather experienced on the user s tract i.e. a custom virtual weather data station .

The risk product issuer computer can next generate virtual weather data for the virtual weather data station by selecting from a national weather database the weather records relating to the user selected weather stations and applying the user selected weights to the weather data for the user selected weather stations. The risk product issuer computer can store the virtual weather data for the custom virtual weather data station in a session database so that the virtual weather data can be used to model the hypothetical performance of a weather risk product based upon the virtual weather data and so that customized contract terms can be determined for a weather risk product based upon the virtual weather data.

The tract user can next select one or more weather risk parameters i.e. user selected weather risk parameters using a graphical user interface display to allow a proposed weather risk product to be presented to the user so that the user can confirm the performance of the weather risk product.

The risk product issuer computer can next generate timeframe specific virtual weather data for the virtual weather data station responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters by selecting from the virtual weather data the weather records relating to the user selected weather risk parameters. In addition the risk product issuer computer can determine customized contract terms for the proposed weather risk product responsive to the timeframe specific for the virtual weather data station responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters responsive to actuarial tables.

The tract user can then confirm whether a proposed weather risk product having the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract terms performs to the user s satisfaction with respect to the timeframe specific virtual weather data thereby providing a simulated performance of the proposed weather risk product. If the user is satisfied with the performance of the proposed weather risk product and confirms the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract terms the user can purchase a weather risk product to be generated and the risk product issuer computer can so generate the weather risk product responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract terms. Alternatively if the user is not satisfied with the performance of the proposed weather risk product the user selected weather risk parameters or the customized contract terms the user can return to re select the geographic parameters of a virtual weather data station for the tract re select one or more user selected weather stations re select the user selected weights or re select one or more weather risk parameters. In response to any of the foregoing re selections the risk product risk issuer computer can perform any of the foregoing steps described with respect to the original selection.

With reference to certain functional aspects of the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data generator and the weather risk product generator can be shown. contains a schematic which shows the interface enabled interaction and data transfer between the user the display at the tract user computer and each of the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data generator and the weather risk product generator . The schematic of further shows the data transfer between the database and each of the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data generator and the weather risk product generator . contains a flow chart that mirrors the schematic blocks that appear in and incorporates a process flow chart wherein the square elements represent programmatic steps and circle elements represent data. The positions of the circle elements and the arrows in represent the receipt and transfer of the data according to exemplary embodiments and the position of square elements represents the execution of the programmatic step according to the exemplary embodiments.

According to certain exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown with reference to the virtual weather data station designer allows a user to configure a virtual weather data station for a tract. The virtual weather data station designer provides a geographic weather data selection interface and a source selection interface to be displayed to a user at a display of the tract user computer . The geographic weather data selection interface and the source selection interface incorporate map data representing geographic and political properties of the earth surface as well as basis weather data representing the properties of a plurality of weather stations positioned at different locations on the earth surface. The plurality of weather stations represent for example weather stations reporting source weather data as is described herein with reference to

The series of operations performed by the virtual weather data station designer can be shown by reference to the flow chart in . In exemplary embodiments of the invention the virtual weather data station designer can perform a step of generating the geographic weather data selection interface to display to the user at a display at the tract user computer and the virtual weather data station designer can also perform a step of generating the source selection interface to display to the user at a display at the tract user computer .

According to exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown by reference to interface display is displayed to the user at the display by the geographic weather data selection interface . The geographic weather data selection interface and interface display in particular allow the user at the tract user computer to select the geographic parameters of a virtual weather data station for the tract using a graphical user interface display. The geographic parameters can be selected with specific reference to a displayed map image including the tract and also including markers for weather stations on or near the user s tract. The geographic parameters can be graphically selected on the graphical user interface display so that the user appears to be selecting one or more weather station markers enclosed within a selection box a selection circle or other type of lasso selection tool that the user can control on the graphical user interface display.

Interface display includes a geographic map image which corresponds to a geographic coordinate system. Although geographic map image appears as a drawing or a schematic rendition of the earth surface geographic map image may also be for example a satellite image or any other representation of the earth surface. The correspondence between map image and the geographic coordinate system allows each point in the map image to correspond to a respective location on the earth surface both of which can be identified by one or more coordinates in the geographic coordinate system. Likewise the features appearing on the map image such as color terrain styling labels and so on can correspond to the features of the earth surface at the corresponding location on the earth surface. Map image can include for example a raster image or a vector image stored as map data at the database . Map image includes all icons dots keys geographic or political markers boundaries features labels roads boundaries borders etc. map features that appear overlaid or incorporated therein with reference to interface display . As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art any of such map features can also correspond to a respective location on the earth surface for example county line . As those having skill in the art will appreciate the map features can also be sourced from the same or from a different raster image or vector image stored as map data at the database .

As can be further shown in the map image can also have overlaid or incorporated therein a plurality of weather station markers such as weather station markers . Each of the weather station markers can be overlaid on the map image for the purpose of display at the display at a position thereon based on the location of an existing actual weather station on the earth surface. The location of the existing actual weather stations can be defined in the basis weather data at the database according to the common geographic coordinate system. Accordingly each of the weather station markers appears on the geographic map image at a position corresponding to the location of the actual weather station on the earth surface. Each of the weather station markers for example weather station marker is anchored to a specific position on the geographic map image so that the weather station marker appear to be at the same location on the earth surface in the map image regardless of changes in scale e.g. zoom and focus e.g. pan of the map image .

As can be further shown in each of the weather station markers for example weather station marker includes a weather station marker name such as weather station marker name displayed adjacent to the weather station marker so that a user is able to readily identify a particular weather station marker not only with reference to the position of the weather station marker on the geographic map image but also based on the user s knowledge of the weather station marker name. As will be understood by those having skill in the art the weather station marker names as well as other properties of the weather stations that can be displayed in the map image can also be defined in the basis weather data at the database .

The geographic map image and the weather station markers overlaid thereon or incorporated therein are referred to herein as a composite weather station map. As will be understood by those having skill in the art the composite weather station map depending on a scale factor may be larger than can be viewed by the user and displayed in the map window of the interface display . As those having skill in the art will appreciate more or less of the map image may be visible in map window at any given image resolution based on the physical dimensions of the display . Accordingly the portion of the composite weather station map displayed in the map window can be adjusted by the user using well known map control functions such as the so called pan and zoom functions. As can be shown with reference to zoom control buttons zoom in and zoom out can control the scale of the composite weather station map and pan control button can control the scope of the composite weather station map displayable on the display . The zoom control buttons and the pan control buttons allow the user to configure the composite weather station map so that the location of the relevant tract on the earth s surface can be represented by the composite weather station map appearing at the display . In addition pan and zoom functions may be implemented according to other techniques known to those having skill in the art such as click and drag to pan or a zooming selection box where the zoomed map image corresponds to the area selected via the selection box. To allow the user to observe the scale of the map image a scale value can be displayed to the user for example by a scale reference area .

An exemplary embodiment in which the map image is zoomed out can be shown with reference to . As can be shown with reference to the scale reference the resolution of the map image is such that the length dimension of the scale reference corresponds to 1500 miles on the surface of the earth. As can be shown with reference to a zooming selection box can be created by the user with a cursor in the manner described herein with respect to a user selected map area . The geographic coordinates corresponding to the vertices of the zooming selection box can be used to re frame the map image upon zooming in on the map image responsive to the selection of the zooming selection box .

An exemplary embodiment in which the map image is zoomed in can be shown with reference to . For example the map image is shown being re framed responsive to the selection of zooming box from and it should be noted that the length dimension of the scale reference in the re framed i.e. zoomed in map image corresponds to 90 miles on the surface of the earth. At this resolution level for example the user can observe landmarks such as county lines and city makers that are not displayed at more distant zoom levels. In addition at such a zoom level it is practical to show weather station markers such as weather station marker which can be toggled on or off using the weather station toggle selector .

An exemplary embodiment in which the map image can variably display all weather station markers or weather station markers only for stations that are frequently updated can be shown with reference to . In for example the rapid response toggle control is selected resulting the map image displaying weather station markers for only those stations that are frequently updated. In contrast shows that rapid response toggle control is de selected resulting in the map image displaying weather station markers for all weather stations located in the area represented by the map image .

Another exemplary embodiment in which the map image is zoomed in can be shown with reference to . For example the map image is shown being re framed responsive to the selection of zooming box from and it should be noted that the length dimension of the scale reference in the re framed i.e. zoomed in map image corresponds to 20 miles on the surface of the earth. At this resolution level for example the user can even more clearly ascertain or discern landmarks such as county lines city markers and weather station markers such as weather station marker .

An exemplary embodiment in which the map image is panned can be shown with reference to . For example the map image is shown being re framed responsive to a click and drag style pan to left and it should be noted that the area represented in has shifted to the right in for example by noting and comparing the positions of weather station marker in in the map image .

As can be further shown with reference to the weather station markers can serve as landmarks along with other map features which allow the user to recognize whether the relevant tract is currently being represented by the composite weather station map displayed at the display or to determine whether the use of pan or zoom functions are required to bring the relevant tract into the composite weather station map to be displayed at the display . As will be known to those having skill in the art the geographic map image includes other landmarks such as bodies of water land masses county names county lines city markers roads all of which may be sourced from the same or from a different raster image or vector image stored as map data at the database .

Those having skill in the art will appreciate various techniques for sourcing generating or displaying the geographic map image being associated with a geographic coordinate system including any features or other images overlaid thereon or incorporated therein and facilitating the display and user control of panning zooming selection and so on with respect to the geographic map image . For example third party software tools available to implement the functionality described herein include ASP Map by VDS Technologies of Dover Del. and Bing Maps by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

With further reference to the flow chart in the geographic weather data selection interface allows the user who is observing the interface display on the display of the tract user computer to graphically select a plurality of geographic parameters for the relevant tract. The plurality of geographic parameters for the relevant tract define an area of the composite weather station map that corresponds to the tract on the earth surface. The plurality of geographic parameters are used in customizing the virtual weather data station for the tract. Certain embodiments allow the selection of the plurality of geographic parameters through a graphical selection feature allowing the selection of a user selected map area as can be shown by user selected map area box . The user selected map area box provides a graphical representation of the user selected map area viewable by the user. Although the boundaries of the user selected map area may mirror the tract exactly the user selected map area may also be an approximation of the tract or a superset or a subset of the tract. The user selected map area may be larger than the tract for example if the user wishes to define the user selected map area so as to include certain weather station markers within the user selected map area thereby selecting such weather station markers for inclusion into the virtual weather data station. Accordingly the user selected map area can represent any area of interest to the user with respect to the tract. For example the user may select the user selected map area specifically to incorporate certain weather stations thus using the user selected map area selection box as a lasso to select certain weather stations. A user may also select the user selected map area so that the user selected map area selection box represents the boundaries of the tract. In all cases however the user selected map area is selected by the user with specific reference to the map features appearing on the composite weather station map at the display including any of the weather stations markers or other geographic or political features landmarks or labels e.g. label appearing overlaid on or incorporated in the geographic map image .

As can be shown with reference to the user selected map area selection box is not limited to being rectangular in shape but may also be for example a circle . In other embodiments for example the user selected map area selection box may be any n sided concave or convex polygon not pictured . In embodiments where the user selected map area selection box is a circle there can be overlaid on the map image in the map window certain information concerning the radius of the user selected map area selection box . In addition the user selected map area selection box can include a radial indicator to allow the user to visually represent the linear distance between the first selection point at the center of the selection box and the location of the cursor at the second selection point at the circumference of the selection box .

Each position of the map image correlates to a unique set of geographic coordinates in the geographic coordinate system and the user selected map area also correlates to one or more unique sets of geographic coordinates in the geographic coordinate system. The plurality of geographic parameters are any one or more values that can define the user selected map area which can be the tract for example in the geographic coordinate system. Accordingly in certain embodiments the geographic parameters may be one or more coordinate sets defining for example the coordinates of the rectangular vertices i.e. points and of the user selected map area . The geographic parameters may also include the coordinates of one rectangular vertex e.g. point of the user selected map area and any number of values representing the x dimension and y dimension of the user selected map area with respect to the one rectangular vertex . Those having skill in the art will recognize any other set of values that can be used to define an area of the tract such as a center point and a radius of a circular user selected map area or any values representing the vertices of any n sided polygonal shape.

As can be shown with reference to user at the tract user computer can control the position of cursor . Cursor is a reference to a variable position on the display or in the interface display corresponding to an input device adapted to receive input from the user with respect to the position on the display or the interface display . The cursor may include a movable visual indicator such as a mouse arrow as shown in . In certain circumstances however no visual indicator is required for example if the input device is a touch screen and the user s finger serves as a visual indicator of the cursor position. In all cases the cursor corresponds to a position on the display screen referred to herein as a cursor position such as cursor position or . Cursor positions each correspond to a unique position on the composite weather station map and thus to a set of geographic coordinates in the geographic coordinate system.

The plurality of geographic parameters can be selected by the user having positioned the cursor at more than one position on the geographic map image such as at cursor position or and making an affirmative selection at such positions. As can be shown with reference to for example the user can position the cursor at cursor position and make an affirmative selection of cursor position by making a first mouse click. The user can then position the cursor at cursor position and make another affirmative selection of cursor position by making a second mouse click. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the affirmative selections may be accomplished by other types of user action such as by a double click a click hold a click release a finger tap a keyboard key press and so on. In all cases the cursor position selected shall be the cursor position at the moment that the corresponding affirmative selection is made. The plurality of geographic parameters defines one or more vertices or center or edge as the case may be of the user selected map area and can include for example the geographic coordinates corresponding to one or more of the cursor positions selected. By way of further example the plurality of geographic parameters can relate to any of the vertices of the user selected map area box or any point within the user selected map area box that can be referenced in defining the boundaries of the user selected map area.

Returning to it can be shown that the virtual weather data station designer further performs a step of determining a plurality of weather station identifiers responsive to the plurality of geographic parameters selected by the user at the tract user computer . The plurality of geographic parameters may be received from the geographic weather data selection interface for example responsive to the user making an affirmative selection using an input device at the tract user computer with respect to the geographic parameters selected in step . Such an affirmative selection can include the second mouse click at cursor position for example thus defining the user selected map area and thereafter transmitting the geographic parameters corresponding to the user selected map area box to the virtual weather data station designer . Those having skill in the art will appreciate that a separate submit button not shown may be incorporated for the purpose of making the affirmative selection thereby allowing the user an opportunity to confirm or change the user selected map area before transmitting the geographic parameters to the virtual weather data station designer .

Once the geographic parameters have been transmitted from the geographic weather data selection interface to the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data station designer can determine the plurality of weather station identifiers responsive thereto. The weather station identifiers determined thereby define a plurality of graphically selected weather stations. Weather station identifiers can be for example any string or one or more characters that serves to distinguish one weather station from any other weather station. Accordingly each weather station identifier is unique and corresponds to a single weather station. The weather station identifier can be used as a key in a relational database to relate a weather station identifier to one or more data records for the weather station corresponding to the weather station identifier such as that referenced as basis weather data . For example each weather station identifier can relate to weather station location data within the basis weather data . The weather station location data can include any data that identifies the location of the weather station on the earth surface for example geographic coordinates for the weather station according to the geographic coordinate system.

The operation of determining the plurality of weather station identifiers responsive to the plurality of geographic parameters can include for example database operations to select one or more weather station identifiers for one or more data records for which the weather station location data matches the area defined by the geographic parameters . The match can be either literal or approximate. In a literal match only weather stations having weather station location data within the user selected map area will match to the geographic parameters . With reference to by way of example the geographic parameters for the user selected map area will result in a literal match only to those weather stations appearing within the user selected map area box such as weather stations and . In an approximate match weather station location data that is within a certain pre selected zone of distance from the user selected map area will match to the geographic parameters . For example an approximate match may depend on one or more proximity parameters to define an enlarged zone corresponding to geographic parameters enlarged by a press selected distance. Those having skill in the art will appreciate various techniques to allow approximate matching of weather station location data including for example radial or rectilinear enlargement of the user selected map area defined by the geographic parameters .

According to exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be further shown by reference to the source selection interface is displayed as interface display . The source selection interface through the interface display in the exemplary embodiment allows the user at the tract user computer to fine tune the virtual weather data station with respect to the plurality of graphically selected weather stations. Such fine tuning includes the ability to selectively incorporate any of the graphically selected weather stations into the virtual weather data station. The selectively incorporated weather stations thereby define a plurality of user selected weather stations. By way of example the graphically selected weather stations may include one or more weather stations that the user does not wish to include for the purposes of building the virtual weather data station. The user for example might not have been able to exclude such stations when graphically selecting the geographic parameters . By way of further example with reference to the user may wish to ignore weather station in building the virtual weather data station. Such fine tuning also includes the ability to selectively weight each of the plurality of user selected weather stations if for example two or more user selected weather stations do not equally relate to the weather for the tract. By way of example the user may be aware that certain user selected weather stations do not reflect the weather at the tract as closely as other user selected weather stations and the user may wish to reduce or increase the effect of certain weather stations on the virtual weather data station. The user selected weather stations and can be identified named selected or referred to using corresponding user selected weather station identifiers. The weather stations weights selected at the source selection interface display are referred to herein as user selected weather station weights.

Returning to the source selection interface display can include a weather station confirmation field . The weather station confirmation field allows the user at the tract user computer to confirm which of the graphically selected weather stations are to be included in the user selected weather stations and thereby incorporated in the virtual weather data station.

At the weather station confirmation field weather station confirmation controls are displayed for each weather station of the graphically selected weather stations. With reference to weather station confirmation controls for an exemplary weather station it can be shown that weather station confirmation controls can include for example buttons to add or to remove respectively the weather station having weather station name from the user selected weather stations to be included in the virtual weather data station. Weather station confirmation controls can also include for example the weather station name which can also be the weather station identifier and the weather station type

The source selection interface can be configured to allow dynamic updating of the source selection interface display when the user selects the add button e.g. button for a particular weather station. For example upon clicking the add button the weather station having the name can be added to the list of user selected weather stations in weighting field . Likewise the source selection interface can be configured to allow dynamic updating of the source selection interface display when the user selects the remove button e.g. button for a particular weather station. For example upon clicking the remove button the weather station having the name can be removed from the list of user selected weather stations in weighting field .

As can be further shown in the source selection interface display can include a weather station weighting field . The weather station weighting field allows the user at the tract user computer to select a weighting factor for each of the user selected weather stations according to the desired relative effect of each of the weather stations to the virtual weather data station. The desired relative effect of each of the user selected weather stations to the virtual weather data station may be based on for example the subjective knowledge and preferences of the user concerning each of the user selected weather stations. The desired relative effect of each of the user selected weather stations to the virtual weather data station may also be based on for example objective importance criteria such as distance altitude difference historical weather patterns geographic features and so on.

At the weather station weighting field weather station weighting controls are displayed for each of the user selected weather stations added at the weather station confirmation field . With reference to weather station weighting controls for an exemplary weather station it can be shown that weather station weighting controls can include for example buttons such as button to remove the weather station from the user selected weather stations to be included in the virtual weather data station. The weather station weighting controls can also include for example the weather station name and a weather station weight selection box . The weather station weight selection box e.g. selection box allows the user to input a numerical weight value corresponding to the desired relative effect of the weather station with respect to the virtual weather data station. The numerical weight value corresponds to the relative degree to which weather data from the corresponding weather station will effect the virtual weather data for the virtual weather data station. The weights for each of the user selected weather stations expressed as ratios or percentages and as such are required to add to 1 or 100 percent .

Reference to provides a walkthrough of the interaction of user with the source selection interface through the source selection interface display . As can be illustrated with reference to the source selection interface display particularly the weather station confirmation field can be initially populated as shown at weather station confirmation controls for each of the graphically selected weather stations for example weather stations in the selection box as can be shown in . At this point before any of the graphically selected weather stations have been added at the weather station confirmation field there are no user selected weather stations to be shown at the weather station weighting field .

Continuing in the walkthrough of user interaction with the source selection interface display as can be illustrated with reference to the source selection interface display and more particularly the weather station confirmation controls for the weather station named Billings Logan International Airport when the user selects the corresponding add button using the cursor the weather station weighting controls are added at the weather station weighting field for the same weather station thus indicating to the user that the weather station is a user selected weather station. To remove the same weather station from the weather station weighting field the user can click the remove button corresponding to the weather station named Billings Logan International Airport . To select a weighting value for the same weather station the user can enter a weighting value in weight selection box which corresponds to the same weather station. Alternatively as can be illustrated with reference to the user can click on full confirmation box and the individual user selections for adding and weighting the weather stations can be skipped. Clicking on full confirmation box selects all of the graphically selected weather stations which appear in the weather station confirmation field as user selected weather stations and selects equal weights i.e. summing to 1 or 100 for each of the user selected weather stations.

Returning to once the user selected weather stations have been selected and the corresponding user selected weights have been selected as is shown in the weighting field the user at the tract user computer can initiate the transmission of these selections namely the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights to the virtual weather data station designer so that a virtual weather data station can be constructed responsive thereto. The plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights collectively define a plurality of user selected virtual weather data station parameters.

The user can initiate the transmission of the user selected virtual weather data station parameters for example by selecting submit button . Alternatively the user can return to the geographic weather data selection interface display to select different geographic coordinate parameters then return to the source selection interface display to select new or updated user selected virtual weather data station parameters. In certain embodiments once the user selected virtual weather data station parameters are transmitted to and received by the virtual weather data station designer the virtual weather data station designer can store the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights at the database for example in a session database in a table for the user selected virtual weather data station parameters as can be shown with reference to . Storing the user selected virtual weather data station parameters at the database allows a virtual weather data station to be defined responsive to the user s selections. In other embodiments the user selected virtual weather data station parameters may be submitted directly to a computer computer program product or other module to generate virtual weather data such as virtual weather data generator .

According to certain exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown with reference to the virtual weather data generator generates virtual weather data for a tract corresponding to the user selected virtual weather data station parameters. The series of operations performed by the virtual weather data generator can be best shown by reference to the flow chart in . In exemplary embodiments of the invention the virtual weather data generator can perform an operation of determining a plurality of station specific weather histories and an operation of generating the virtual weather data responsive to the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers and the plurality of user selected weather station weights thereby defining a virtual weather data station with respect to the user selected virtual weather data station parameters. The virtual weather data generator relies on basis weather data particularly with respect to those weather stations corresponding to the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention as can be shown with reference to the WSG performs an operation of determining a plurality of station specific weather histories . The station specific weather histories are determined responsive to the user selected weather station identifiers each of which can be used as a key in the database relating to individual weather histories for each of the weather stations corresponding to each of the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers . The weather history for a weather station can include for example a plurality of weather readings collected at the weather station. Each of the plurality of weather readings corresponds to a unique weather parameter observed and recorded at a particular weather station in or at a particular timeframe such as on a particular day or at a particular time of day . The weather parameters can include for example precipitation temperature wind barometric pressure and so on. The weather history for a weather station can also include for example derivations of the weather readings including averages maximums minimums and so on. Such derivations can also correspond to unique weather parameters observed at a particular weather station at a particular timeframe.

The operation of determining a plurality of station specific weather histories can include for example a database query to select any or all of the weather readings in the basis weather data corresponding to the user selected weather stations according to the plurality of user selected weather station identifiers . The plurality of user selected weather station identifiers for example can be stored in the user selected weather station parameters table at the database . As a result of the query for example the selected weather readings can be loaded into memory locally accessible by the virtual weather data generator so that they may be readily accessed by the virtual weather data generator . Alternatively the result of the query can also be for example to load these selected records into memory at the database so that the records may be accessed directly by the database management software in database for example when requested by other computer programs or software modules. The plurality of station specific weather histories can be identified in memory locally accessible to the virtual weather data generator or in the database using the corresponding weather station identifier of the plurality of weather station identifiers .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention as can also be shown with reference to the WSG performs an operation of generating virtual weather data responsive to the plurality of station specific weather histories . The operation of generating the virtual weather data includes processing the plurality of station specific weather histories using a computer algorithm that for each weather history of the plurality of station specific weather histories multiplies one or more of the weather readings in that weather history by the user selected weather station weight for the corresponding weather station thereby defining a plurality of weighted weather readings. Each of the plurality of weighted weather readings corresponds to a unique weather station weather parameter and observation timeframe such as a particular day . For each weather parameter and each observation timeframe all of the weighted weather readings for all weather stations are thereafter summed to provide a composite weather reading for the weather parameter for the observation timeframe.

The foregoing exemplary operation can be shown in further detail with reference to . In each of the major columns represents a different timeframe T T and T each of the minor columns represents a different weather station S S and S. Each of the rows represents a different weather parameter. With reference to the data represented by blocks in the top left quadrant all of the data corresponds to timeframe T and parameter P. Each of the readings for parameter P at timeframe T for each station S S S are represented by blocks PTS PTS and PTS respectively. Each weather reading represented by these blocks is multiplied by the weighting factor for the individual weather station as represented by operations W W and W respectively which can output weighted weather readings WTS WTS and WTS respectively. Weighted weather readings WTS WTS and WTS are then summed as is represented by operation S and the result is the composite weather reading PT C which represents a virtual or composite weather reading for parameter P at timeframe T for the virtual weather data station. Likewise the remainder of illustrates how composite weather readings PT C PT C PT C PT C PT C PT C PT C and PT C are generated. Accordingly the generated composite weather readings define the virtual weather data and each composite reading in the virtual weather data thereby corresponds to a weather parameter and an observation timeframe. As is apparent from the foregoing description the degree to which the weather readings at the component weather stations S S and S affect the weather readings of the virtual weather data station depend on the weightings W W and W that correspond respectively to each component weather station. As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art the foregoing algorithm is applicable to any number of weather stations for any number of weather parameters and for any number of observations. Also as will be appreciated by those having skill in the art different weightings can be used for different parameters or for different timeframes as long as the corresponding weightings for any N number of weather stations sums to 1 or 100 percent. Accordingly the virtual weather data provides hypothetical historical weather data for a virtual weather data station presumed to be on the tract based on the specific customization by the user s selections and weightings .

Once the virtual weather data has been generated weather risk products can be generated responsive thereto. In certain embodiments as can be shown with reference to the virtual weather data generator can store the virtual weather data at the database for example in a session database in a virtual weather data table as can be shown with reference to . Storing the virtual weather data at the database allows weather risk products to be generated responsive thereto. In other embodiments the virtual weather data may be submitted directly to a computer computer program product or other module to generate weather risk products such as weather risk product generator .

According to certain exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown with reference to the weather risk product generator generates weather risk products for the user selected tract responsive to the virtual weather data and a plurality of user selected weather risk parameters thereby allowing a user to purchase a customized weather risk product based on customized virtual weather data stations and customized contract terms. The weather risk product generator provides a weather risk selection interface and a weather risk confirmation interface to be displayed to a user at a display of the tract user computer . The weather risk selection interface and the weather risk confirmation interface incorporate the virtual weather data for example from table which represents hypothetical user customized weather data for the tract.

The series of operations performed by the weather risk product generator can be best shown by reference to the flow chart in . The user interacts with the weather risk selection interface and the weather risk confirmation interface to select weather risk parameters and then to confirm the performance of a proposed weather risk product based on the user selected weather risk parameters . Weather risk parameters can include but are not limited to a contract amount a contract name a concern type a risk type a risk endurance range and a risk tolerance range. Because weather risk products relate to a user selected timeframe i.e. the risk endurance range and the weather risk selection interface and weather risk confirmation interface allow the user to confirm the simulated or hypothetical past performance of a proposed weather risk product with respect to the user selected timeframe in past years more particularly with respect to historical virtual weather data for the user selected timeframe in past years. In the event that the simulated or hypothetical past performance of the proposed weather risk product is unsatisfactory to user for example the weather risk confirmation interface also allows the user to interactively recall other interfaces e.g. the geographic weather data selection interface and the source selection interface in order to generate new virtual weather data and to select new user selected weather risk parameters with respect to the new virtual weather data.

In exemplary embodiments of the invention the weather risk product generator can perform the operation of generating the weather risk selection interface to display to the user at a display at the tract user computer and the weather risk product generator can also perform the operation of generating the weather risk confirmation interface to display to the user at a display at the tract user computer .

According to exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown by reference to the weather risk selection interface is displayed as interface display . The weather risk selection interface and interface display in particular allow the user at the tract user computer to initiate the selection of the weather risk parameters that will be used to model a proposed weather risk product or generate a weather risk product.

In an exemplary embodiment the weather risk selection interface display includes weather risk parameter selection area weather risk parameter selection area which includes for example a contract amount field to allow the user to select a user selected contract amount contract name field to allow the user to select a user selected contract name and a concern type field to allow the user to select a user selected concern type. Contract amount field and contract name field are shown as text input boxes but those having skill in the art will appreciate that any other type of input or selection means can be implemented. Concern type field is shown as being a drop down selection box pre populated with standardized concern types but those having skill in the art will appreciate that any other type of input or selection means can be implemented. Standardized concern types pre populated in concern type field can include for example Cold Heat Precipitation. Those having skill in the art will appreciate the ability to pre populate the concern type field with other types of weather concerns such as those relating to precipitation temperature wind barometric pressure and so on.

Once a user selected weather concern type has been selected by the user at the weather risk selection interface display the weather risk selection interface can dynamically update the weather risk parameter selection area to include weather risk type field as can be shown in to allow the user to select a user selected weather risk type. In one embodiment updating the weather risk parameter selection area is performed using client side scripting techniques. Such client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger to update the weather risk parameter selection area responsive to the user selecting confirmation button as can be shown in or responsive to the user selecting a user selected weather concern type at the weather concern type field . Returning to weather risk type field is shown as being a drop down selection box pre populated with standardized risk types but those having skill in the art will appreciate that any other type of input or selection means can be implemented. Different standardized risk types can be dynamically pre populated in weather risk type field responsive to different user selected weather concern types at concern type field . In one embodiment the relation between certain concern types and certain risk types is implemented using client side scripting techniques. Risk types for concern type Cold can include for example Lowest Daily Temperature in Period and Custom Degree days as can be shown with reference to weather risk type field in . Risk types for concern type Heat can include for example Highest Daily Temperature in Period and Custom Degree days as can be shown with reference to weather risk type field in . Risk types for concern type Precipitation can include for example Highest Daily Precipitation in Period Excessive Cumulative Precipitation and Insufficient Cumulative Precipitation as can be shown with reference to weather risk type field in . Those having skill in the art will appreciate the ability to dynamically pre populate the risk type field with other types of weather risks such as those relating to precipitation temperature wind barometric pressure and so on.

Once a user selected weather risk type has been selected by a user at the weather risk selection interface display the weather risk selection interface can dynamically update the weather risk parameter selection area to include timeframe field as can be shown in to allow the user to select a user selected risk endurance range including a user selected start date and a user selected end date. In one embodiment updating the weather risk parameter selection area is performed using client side scripting techniques. Such client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger to update the weather risk parameter selection area responsive to a user selecting a user selected weather risk type at the weather risk type field . As can be shown by comparing weather risk parameter selection area can be updated in one or more steps such as a first step to include start calendar field and a second step to include end calendar field . Client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger to update the weather risk parameter selection area responsive to a user selecting a user selected start date at start calendar field . With reference to timeframe area is shown to include two calendar fields allowing a user to select a user selected start date from start calendar and a user selected end date from end calendar from any date appearing on the respective calendars. The respective calendars for example can be adjustable for month and year. Those having skill in the art however will appreciate that any other type of input or selection means can be implemented such as a text input box for each of a start date and an end date. The time period between and including the user selected start date and the user selected end date defines the user selected risk endurance range. The risk endurance range thereby defines the time period in which the proposed risk product is effective.

Once a user selected risk endurance range has been selected by a user at the weather risk selection interface display the weather risk selection interface can dynamically update the weather risk parameter selection area to include risk tolerance fields and as can be shown in to allow the user to select a user selected risk tolerance range including a user selected damage onset and a user selected damage completion. In one embodiment updating the weather risk parameter selection area is performed using client side scripting techniques. Such client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger responsive to a user selecting a submit button as can be shown with reference to or responsive to a user selecting a user selected start date and a user selected end date at start calendar field and end calendar field respectively as can be shown with reference to . Returning to risk tolerance fields and allow a user to select a user selected damage onset and a user selected damage completion respectively. The range between and including the user selected damage onset and the user selected damage completion defines a user selected risk tolerance range. The risk tolerance range thereby defines how the compensation under the proposed risk product relates to weather risk related damage. Although the tolerance fields and are shown to be implemented as text input boxes those having skill in the art will appreciate that any other type of input or selection means can be implemented including for example a slider control or other graphical range selection tools.

Once a user selected risk endurance range has been selected by a user at the weather risk selection interface display the weather risk selection interface can dynamically update the weather risk selection interface display to include a customized historical summary as can be shown in for the virtual weather data responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters . In one embodiment updating the weather risk selection interface display is performed using client side scripting techniques. Such client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger responsive to a user selecting a submit button as can be shown with reference to or responsive to a user selecting a user selected start date and a user selected end date at start calendar field and end calendar field respectively as can also be shown with reference to . Returning to the customized historical summary allows the user viewing the weather risk selection interface display to view relevant excerpts from or summaries of the virtual weather data to inform the user s selection of a user selected damage onset and a user selected damage completion. The customized historical summary includes for example a minimum value an average value and a maximum value with respect to the user selected weather risk type. The values included in the customized historical summary can be determined responsive to virtual weather data during the user selected risk endurance range in prior years as is described herein with respect to the step of determining timeframe specific virtual weather data. The values in the customized historical summary can be determined for example using well known mathematical or statistical operations over the timeframe specific virtual weather data including for example minimizing averaging or maximizing values from a plurality of weather readings in the timeframe specific virtual weather data. By viewing relevant excerpts from or summaries of the virtual weather data in the customized historical summary before selecting a user selected damage onset and a user selected damage completion the user is better able to ascertain the accuracy of the virtual weather data with respect to the user s own knowledge of the actual weather history for the tract. If the user lacks an understanding of the actual weather history for the tract the customized historical summary beneficially provides the user with a preliminary understanding of the virtual weather data for the tract. In both cases the customized historical summary allows the user to better select a user selected damage onset and a user selected damage completion with respect to the virtual weather data and thereby tailor the user selected damage onset and the user selected damage completion to best fit the virtual weather data . For example if the customized historical summary shows a maximum value below the user s expected value for the damage onset the user will know that the virtual weather data as then provided does not accord with the user s understanding of the weather for the tract. Accordingly the user could revisit either the geographic weather data selection interface display or the source selection interface to allow new virtual weather data to be generated with respect to different user selections e.g. different geographic coordinate parameters different user selected weather station identifiers or different user selected weather station weights .

As can be shown with reference to each of the foregoing features of the timeframe field and the customized historical summary can also be provided for example for a user selected weather risk that is custom degree days respectively for a user selected weather concern of cold or for a user selected weather concern of heat. For a user selected weather risk that is custom degree days the user selected damage onset and the user selected risk completion are expressed in numbers of days which is understood to be the number of days in the user selected risk endurance range during which the weather readings for the virtual weather data station satisfies a user selected temperature criteria. The user selected temperature criteria includes for example a user selected threshold temperature a user selected weather observation e.g. minimum temperature average temperature or maximum temperature and a user selected risk concern e.g. excessive degree days or insufficient degree days . Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the present invention despite being described herein with respect to embodiments reflecting specific weather concerns specific weather risk types or specific weather risk criteria is equally applicable to other types of weather concerns weather risk types or weather risk criteria including any combination of one or more weather concerns risk types or risk criteria. For example there may be a plurality of user selected weather concerns a plurality of user selected weather risks for one or more of user selected weather concerns and a plurality of user selected weather risk criteria for one or more user selected weather risks.

Once the user has selected the plurality of user selected weather risk parameters or as the case may be at least a user selected weather concern type a user selected weather risk type a user selected weather risk endurance range and optionally a user selected weather risk tolerance range such parameters can be transmitted to and received by the weather risk product generator . One or more of the plurality of weather risk parameters can be received from the weather risk selection interface for example responsive to the user making an affirmative selection using an input device at the tract user computer . Such an affirmative selection can include for example the user making a mouse click for example on submit button as can be shown with reference to or by selecting a user selected start date and a user selected end date at start calendar field and end calendar field respectively as can also be shown with reference to . When the weather risk parameters are received by the weather risk product generator the weather risk product generator can perform the operation of determining timeframe specific virtual weather data responsive to one or more of the user selected weather risk parameters received from the weather risk selection interface .

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention as can be shown with reference to the weather risk product generator performs an operation of determining a timeframe specific virtual weather data which represents the weather readings within the virtual weather data occurring within the dates of the user selected risk endurance range for all available prior years i.e. prior years having records in the virtual weather data . The timeframe specific virtual weather data is determined responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the virtual weather data . The step of determining the timeframe specific virtual weather data can include for example a database query to select any or all of the virtual weather data that corresponds to the user selected weather risk parameters . In an exemplary embodiment any of the weather readings in the virtual weather data that match the user selected risk type and the user selected risk endurance range are selected and define the timeframe specific virtual weather data . In such an embodiment only the months and dates of the user selected risk endurance range are used thereby allowing the selection of virtual weather data from all years of record prior to the year of the risk endurance range. The selected weather readings that comprise the timeframe specific virtual weather data can be loaded into memory locally accessible by the weather risk product generator so that they may be readily accessed by the weather risk product generator . Alternatively for example the selected weather readings can be loaded into memory at the database so that the selected weather readings may be accessed directly by the database management software in database for example when requested by other computer programs or software modules. Any of the timeframe specific virtual weather data can be identified in the memory locally accessible to the weather risk product generator or in the database using corresponding the user selected risk type and any date within the user selected risk endurance range.

Further in an exemplary embodiment of the invention as can also be shown with reference to the weather risk product generator performs an operation of determining a plurality of customized contract terms which represents the terms of a proposed risk product to be generated. Customized contract tennis can include for example at least a contract price a contract premium and a payout scale. The plurality of customized contract terms is determined responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the timeframe specific virtual weather data . The step of determining the plurality of customized contract tennis can include for example referencing weather risk actuarial data with respect to the user selected contract amount the user selected weather risk type the user selected risk endurance range the user selected risk tolerance range and each of the corresponding weather readings within the timeframe specific virtual weather data . In certain embodiments however referencing weather risk actuarial data may include other weather readings not included in the timeframe specific virtual weather data but included in the virtual weather data for example weather readings observed in the same season as the user selected risk endurance range but outside the dates of the user selected risk endurance range. The customized contract tennis can be loaded into memory locally accessible by the weather risk product generator so that they may be readily accessed by the weather risk product generator. Alternatively for example the customized contract terms can be loaded into memory at the database so that the customized contract tennis may be accessed directly by the database management software in database for example when requested by other computer programs or software modules. Any of the customized contract terms can be identified in the memory locally accessible to the weather risk product generator or in the database using a corresponding identifier for the individual customized contract term such as the contract price the contract premium and the payout scale.

According to exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown by reference to the weather risk confirmation interface is displayed as interface display . The weather risk confirmation interface and interface display in particular allow the user at the tract user computer to initiate the selection of the weather risk parameters that will be used to model a proposed weather risk product or generate a weather risk product for example if purchased by the user .

In an exemplary embodiment the weather risk confirmation interface display includes weather risk parameter confirmation area to allow a user at the tract user computer to confirm the user selected weather risk parameters which will define the performance characteristics of the weather risk product. The weather risk parameter confirmation area can include for example a display of the user selected weather parameters such as the start date the end date the damage onset and the damage completion all of which were previously selected by the user through the weather risk selection interface . If for example the user cannot confirm the user selected weather risk parameters and the weather risk parameters in the weather risk parameter confirmation area were entered incorrectly the user can dynamically recall the weather risk selection interface display using modify button or reset button .

In certain embodiments the weather risk confirmation interface display also includes contract term confirmation area to allow the user at the tract user computer to confirm the customized contract terms which will further define the performance characteristics of the weather risk product. The contract term confirmation area can include for example a display of any of the customized contract terms such as the contract price and the contract premium .

Also according to exemplary embodiments of the invention as can be shown by reference to the weather risk confirmation interface can further display pop up displays and which include a historical weather chart and a contract performance chart respectively. Pop up displays and can be dynamically displayed and the user is able to interactively alternate between each of the historical weather chart the contract performance chart and the weather risk confirmation interface display for example using client side scripting techniques. Such client side scripting techniques may include for example a trigger to display the pop up displays or responsive to the user selecting historical weather chart button or a contract performance button at the contract term confirmation area as can be shown in . Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the historical weather chart and the contract performance chart can also be included in the weather risk confirmation interface display whereas the weather risk parameter confirmation area the contract term confirmation area and the historical weather chart or contract performance chart can be displayed on a single screen and such an embodiment is within the scope of this disclosure. In addition both modify button and reset button are provided to dynamically recall the weather risk selection interface display so that new customized contract terms or new timeframe specific virtual weather data to can be defined for example if the user is dissatisfied with any of the customized contract terms or the timeframe specific virtual weather data reflected in the contract term confirmation area historical weather chart or contract performance chart . As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art various commercial software modules and application programming interfaces are available to enable the generation of charts such as the historical weather chart and the contract performance chart with respect to the timeframe specific virtual weather data the customized contract terms and the user selected weather risk parameters . For example certain embodiments of the invention can be provided using Chartdirector.net by Advanced Software Engineering of Hong Kong or ASP.NET reporting tools by Telerik of Sofia Bulgaria.

With reference to the historical weather chart is shown included in pop up display and the contract performance chart is shown included in pop up display according to certain embodiments of the invention. Both the historical weather chart and the contract performance chart allow the user to visualize through the display the hypothetical past performance of a proposed weather risk product in prior years with respect to the user selected weather risk parameters . In further detail both of the historical weather chart and the contract performance chart beneficially allow the user to confirm the consistency between hypothetical past compensation from the proposed weather risk product and any actual weather related damage or economic harm experienced at the tract in prior years thereby enhancing the information available to the user with respect to the suitability of the proposed risk product. For example the user can visualize through the historical weather chart at the display how the timeframe specific weather data intersects with the user selected risk tolerance range. Also for example the user can visualize through the contract performance chart at the display the compensation value for the timeframe specific weather data within the user selected risk tolerance range.

As can be shown with reference to historical weather chart can be a line plot chart having an x axis representing an independent variable and a y axis representing a dependent variable. In the historical weather chart as is shown in the user selected concern type is the dependent variable and the observation year for all prior available years is the independent variable. The historical weather chart includes a line plot representing weather readings in the timeframe specific virtual weather data which correspond to the user selected concern type as it varies for each observation. Also included the historical weather chart as can further be shown with reference to are a 0 payout line which represents the user selected damage onset parameter corresponding to the user selected concern type and a 100 payout line which represents the user selected damage completion parameter corresponding to the user selected concern type.

The interaction between the line plot 0 payout line and 100 payout line on the historical weather chart allows the user to visualize how the timeframe specific weather data intersects with the user selected risk tolerance range and thereby better understand the hypothetical effectiveness of the proposed weather risk product with respect to prior years. For example the user is able to readily determine from the historical weather chart that a proposed weather risk product assuming its hypothetical applicability to prior years would have covered weather related damage occurring at time points . To determine whether hypothetical performance of the weather risk product would have been favorable in prior years the user could research and compare to his own accounting records for the tract at times to determine whether the tract suffered economic harm at those times. The user could also examine the position of points along the y axis specifically with respect to the relative distance between the 0 line and the 100 line to ascertain the relative magnitude of hypothetical compensation and determine whether such is consistent with the degree of economic harm suffered at times . Accordingly the user can be better is informed in making a purchasing decision with respect to the proposed risk product or alternatively the user can forego the purchasing decision in the event that sufficient consistency is lacking. In the latter circumstance the user can return to the weather risk confirmation interface display using the return button or recall the weather risk selection interface display using the modify button or the reset button .

As can be shown with reference to contract performance chart is a line plot chart having an x axis representing an independent variable and a y axis representing a dependent variable. In the contract performance chart as is shown in the contract payout value is the dependent variable and the observation year for all prior available years is the independent variable. The contract performance chart includes a line plot representing the payout value for the weather readings of the user selected concern type as it varies for each observation. The line plot allows the user to visualize the compensation value on an absolute basis for the timeframe specific weather data and thereby better understand the hypothetical effectiveness of the proposed weather risk product with respect to prior years. For example the user is able to readily determine from the contract performance chart that according to the customized contract terms and the user selected weather risk parameters the weather risk product would have payout values corresponding to points during the prior years. To determine whether hypothetical performance of the weather risk product would have been favorable in prior years the user could research and compare accounting records for the tract at times to determine the absolute amount of economic harm suffered at the tract at those times and whether such is consistent with the amount of hypothetical compensation. Accordingly the user can be better informed in making a purchasing decision with respect to the proposed risk product or alternatively the user can forego the purchasing decision in the event that sufficient consistency is lacking. In the latter circumstance the user can return to the weather risk confirmation interface display using the return button or recall the weather risk selection interface display using the modify button or the reset button .

Returning to the flowchart in it can be shown that once the user has confirmed the user selected weather risk parameters the timeframe specific virtual weather data and the customized contract parameters at the weather risk confirmation interface display and in certain embodiments the hypothetical performance of a proposed weather risk product with respect thereto at the pop up displays and a weather risk product can be generated responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract parameters . In further detail the user can command the weather risk confirmation interface to transmit a user confirmation message to the weather risk product generator which is then received by the weather risk product generator . As is described above the user confirmation message may include a command to return to the weather risk selection interface display for an opportunity to re select any of the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract parameters . Also the user confirmation message may include a command to re generate the geographic weather data selection interface or re generate the source selection interface at which point the user would be returned to the geographic weather data selection interface display or the source selection interface display respectively and re perform the steps as is shown in and as is described herein. Further as can be seen with reference to the user confirmation message may include a command to generate the weather risk product for example so that the weather risk product can be purchased by the user . The confirmation message can be received from the weather risk confirmation interface for example responsive to the user making an affirmative selection using an input device at the tract user computer . Such an affirmative selection can include for example the user making a mouse click for example on reset button as can be shown with reference to reset button as can be shown with reference to or purchase button as can be shown with reference to . When the confirmation message is received by the weather risk product generator the weather risk product generator can perform the operation of generating the weather risk product responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract parameters .

Advantageously various embodiments of the present invention can provide one or more customized weather risk products for one or more tracts. Various embodiments of the present invention can provide risk products to mitigate against potential financial exposure due the occurrence of a weather risk event as is defined according to an individual weather risk product according to the user selected weather risk parameters. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention as can be shown with reference to the weather risk product generator performs an operation of generating the weather risk product so that the weather risk product can be purchased by the user and so that the weather risk product in the event that circumstances occur triggering the weather risk product s performance during the user selected risk endurance range weather risk event can be identified and processed for settlement according to the customized contract terms . The weather risk product can be generated responsive to the user selected weather risk parameters and the customized contract parameters and be stored as a record in the database for example as weather risk product risk parameters and weather risk product contract parameters. In certain embodiments weather risk products can be generated and stored at the weather risk product administrative database or perhaps at a specialized weather risk product inventory database not pictured which can be part of the weather risk product administrative database .

As can be shown with reference to the timeframe t prior to and during generation of weather risk product in the weather risk product being a record stored in the weather risk product administrative database for example can be structured so as to include data for the virtual weather data station parameters weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters which are unique to the user customized weather risk product . The foregoing data can be written to the weather risk product responsive to executed instructions within computer program product for example computer program products . The weather risk product can also include data linking the weather risk product to a unique weather risk product identifier for example to allow the weather risk product to be associated with a user account and to facilitate the weather risk product being processed for settlement.

As can be shown with reference to weather risk products stored at the weather risk product administrative database for example can be listed at a weather risk product inventory interface display which can be generated by the risk product issuer computer for example and displayed on a display at the user computer . Three different weather risk products are listed at the weather risk product inventory interface display as can be identified by unique weather risk product identifiers at location on the weather risk product inventory interface display. As can be shown with reference to the column entitled Contract or more particularly at processing status each of the weather risk products listed can specify a processing status showing for example whether particular weather risk products have been paid for by the purchasing user or whether there are settlements pending. Processing status can be a button for example allowing a user to enter payment or view settlement information. In addition to having a unique weather risk product identifier each weather risk product can also include a friendly name such as name so that the weather risk product can be readily identifiable or recognizable to a user. As can be shown with reference to the location any data included in a weather risk product such as the virtual weather data station parameters weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters can also be listed at the weather risk product inventory interface display . As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art the foregoing description of the weather risk product data displayed as a table of the weather risk product inventory interface display is further descriptive of exemplary data structure for weather risk products such as weather risk product being stored in a table at the weather risk product administrative database .

Processing status button when selected by a user at the user interface can trigger the dynamic generation of a weather risk product payment interface for example by the weather risk product issuer computer to displayed a weather risk product payment interface display on a display of a user computer as can be shown with reference to . Weather risk product payment interface display can include for example reference to the weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters for a particular weather risk product as can be shown with reference to area of the weather risk product payment interface display and identified for example by the weather risk product identifier . Weather risk product payment interface display can also include for example reference to the virtual weather data station parameters for the particular weather risk product as can be shown for example with reference to area of the weather risk product payment interface display . Also as can be shown with reference to area of the weather risk product payment interface display various payment options are available to the user including electronic check wire transfer paper check and a standing credit agreement. Various techniques known to those having skill in the art allow the risk issuer computer to generate a payment execution interface not shown to be displayed at the user computer to allow the user at the user computer to execute payment via electronic check or wire transfer. Information regarding standing credit agreement can be stored and verified for example at the weather risk product administrative database . A user can transmit verification that a paper check has been manually submitted to the risk product issuing entity for example by selecting manual payment confirmation button at the weather risk product payment interface display .

The weather risk product can further include data linking the weather risk product to an account such as a user account for the tract user or a financial account for receiving premium payments and paying settlement payments by a user s financial institution as can be shown with reference to . Weather risk products being stored for example at the weather risk product administrative database can be associated with a user account also stored at the weather risk product administrative database for example based on account authorization and authentication information e.g. a user account identifier and a user account password entered by the user at the user computer and transmitted to the risk product issuer computer for example and stored in the session database during the generation of the weather risk product . Exemplary account authorization information and account authentication information which can be masked for privacy at the user computer can be entered by the user at the user computer as can be shown with reference to user account login interface display as can be shown with reference to . Exemplary account authorization information and account authentication information can be transmitted to the risk product issuer computer for example upon selection by the user of the log in button for example using a cursor.

A settlement process can be programmatically performed for example pursuant to instructions by weather risk product settlement processor program product for example instructions stored in the memory of the risk product issuer computer as can be shown with reference to . Weather risk product settlement processor program product can include for example instructions which when executed by the processor perform the operation of comparing at regular intervals settlement data to one or more weather risk products stored in the database . The steps of comparing settlement data to a particular weather risk product as can be shown with respect to the timeframe t repeated during the risk endurance range include for example the step of generating A risk product virtual settlement weather data from the settlement data pursuant to the virtual weather data station parameters . And when the virtual settlement weather data satisfies criteria set forth by the weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters a weather risk event has occurred for that particular weather risk product and settlement can be issued to the user account responsive to the weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters . In certain embodiments having the user account as a financial account at a financial institution settlement can be systematically issued directly to the financial institution for example according to electronic payment techniques known to those having skill in the art.

As can be shown with reference to processing status button when selected by a user at the user interface can trigger the dynamic generation of a weather risk product settlement interface for example by the weather risk product issuer computer to be displayed as a weather risk product settlement interface display on a display of a user computer as can be shown with reference to . Weather risk product settlement interface display can include for example reference to the weather risk product risk parameters and the weather risk product contract parameters for a particular weather risk product as can be shown with reference to area of the weather risk product settlement interface display and identified for example by the weather risk product identifier . Weather risk product settlement interface display can also include for example weather risk product virtual settlement weather data for the particular weather risk product as can be shown for example with reference to settlement weather chart of the weather risk product settlement interface display . Settlement weather chart can be a line plot chart having an x axis representing an independent variable and a y axis representing a dependent variable. In the settlement weather chart as is illustrated in the user selected concern type from the particular weather risk product is the dependent variable and the observation date within the user selected risk endurance range for the particular weather risk product is the independent variable. The settlement weather chart includes a line plot representing weather readings in the virtual settlement weather data which correspond to the user selected concern type as it varies for each observation date.

Settlement weather chart shows the virtual settlement weather data over the all or part of the user selected risk endurance range. The line plot allows the user to visualize the weather observations of the virtual settlement weather data within the user selected risk endurance range and thereby better understand the actual effectiveness of a purchased weather risk product in particular as to whether any weather observations within the virtual settlement weather data triggers a settlement under the purchased weather risk product. For example the user is able to readily determine from the settlement weather chart that according to the customized contract terms and the user selected weather risk parameters which are displayed in area whether the weather observations of the virtual settlement weather data exceeded the user selected damage onset which is displayed to the user as trigger observation .

Settlement weather chart which is described according to one particular embodiment herein can also be implemented and displayed as is described with respect to the contract performance chart except pertaining to the virtual settlement weather data instead of the timeframe specific weather data . For example such an implementation would allow the user to visualize the compensation value on an absolute basis for the virtual settlement weather data and thereby better understand the actual effectiveness of the purchased weather risk product. Likewise a settlement weather chart can be implemented and displayed as is described with respect to the historical weather chart except pertaining to the virtual settlement weather data instead of the timeframe specific weather data . Such an implementation for example would allow the user to visualize how the virtual settlement weather data intersects with the user selected risk tolerance range and thereby better understand the actual ongoing or final effectiveness of the purchased weather risk product.

Although various embodiments of the present invention have been described mostly in terms of land tracts the weather risk product approach under various embodiments of the present invention is scalable and beneficially can be used to create weather risk products applicable for any type of tract usage including for example maritime oil and gas drilling or production operations.

It is also important to note that while embodiments of the present invention have been described in the context of a fully functional system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanism of at least portions of the present invention or aspects thereof are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable program product stored in a tangible computer medium and a computer readable medium of instructions in a variety of forms for execution on a processor processors or the like and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Note the computer readable program product can be in the form of microcode programs routines and symbolic languages that provide a specific set or sets of ordered operations that control the functioning of the hardware and direct its operation as known and understood by those skilled in the art. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to nonvolatile hard coded type media such as read only memories ROMs CD ROMs and DVD ROMs or erasable electrically programmable read only memories EEPROMs recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD R RWs DVD RAMs DVD R RWs DVD R RWs flash drives memory sticks HD DVDs mini disks laser disks Blu ray disks and other newer types of memories and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links. Also note that any of the computers or servers such as computers for example described herein can be implemented not only as discrete computers or servers but also as virtual computers or servers running on one or more machines implementing a virtualization scheme and having one or more non transitory memory input output unit and processor as will be known to those having skill in the art. Furthermore the non transitory memory input output unit or processor of the computers or servers described herein will be understood by those having skill in the art as not being limited to discrete apparatuses for example in a virtualization scheme and two or more of the non transitory memories input output units or processors of the computers or servers described herein may be implemented by a one or more non transitory memory input output unit or processor respectively.

The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to and benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 540 436 titled Systems Computer Implemented Methods Geographic Weather Data Selection Interface Display and Computer Readable Medium Having Program Products to Generate User Customized Virtual Weather Data and User Customized Weather Risk Products Responsive Thereto and filed Jul. 2 2011 which is a non provisional application that relates to claims priority to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 505 457 titled Systems Computer Implemented Methods and Computer Readable Program Products to Generate User Customized Virtual Weather Data and User Customized Weather Risk Products Responsive Thereto and filed on Jul. 7 2011 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Moreover the foregoing has broadly outlined certain objectives features and technical advantages of embodiments of the present invention and a detailed description of embodiments of the invention so that embodiments of the invention may be better understood in light of features and advantages of the invention as described herein which form the subject of certain claims of the invention. It should be appreciated that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages is better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that such description and figures are provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the foregoing specification.

