---

title: Clutch apparatus and method for resisting torque
abstract: A clutch employed in a tool string includes an annular housing and an annular sleeve arranged and moveable within the housing. The sleeve is configured to move into engagement with the housing to inhibit relative rotation and axial translation between the housing and the sleeve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09394760&OS=09394760&RS=09394760
owner: Halliburton Energy Services, Inc.
number: 09394760
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130802
---
Subterranean well operations employ a variety of tools downhole for different purposes. For example downhole valves can be employed at different locations of a tool string for a variety of purposes including to isolate sections of conduit of the tool string within a wellbore. Such valves can be individually actuated opened closed to isolate different portions of the string of conduits along the length of the wellbore.

The operation of tools downhole in a tool string can necessitate different mill out operations within the conduit of the tool string. For example it may be necessary after carrying out operations with a downhole tool to remove some portion of the tool to clear the conduit for additional operations within the tool string. In the case of ball seat valves there can be a need to remove the ball the seat and or other parts of the valve from the conduit after the valve has been actuated. In such cases there may be a need to employ clutches to resist torque during the mill out operation to remove part or all of the valve or other tool from the conduit.

Clutches in these applications can be used to resist torque during the mill out operation so that the component that is being milled out does not rotate relative to the conduit within which the component is arranged. Currently many applications use clutches machined in situ which may suffer from a number of disadvantages.

Examples according to this disclosure include a clutch apparatus configured for use in a downhole tool string. The clutch can be used in to resist torque during a mill out operation so that the component that is being milled out does not rotate relative to the conduit within which the component is arranged. Clutches in accordance with this disclosure can include an annular housing including a shoulder extending radially inward from an inner surface of the housing and an annular sleeve received within the housing and configured to move longitudinally from a first position toward a second position within the housing in response to an applied force. The annular sleeve includes at least one tab protruding longitudinally from a first end of the sleeve. The annular sleeve is configured to allow the at least one tab of the sleeve to engage and at least partially penetrate the shoulder of the housing to inhibit relative rotation between the housing and sleeve.

The sleeve of the clutch can include one two three or more tabs protruding from and distributed around a circumference of the first end of the sleeve. An actuation force can act upon the sleeve of the clutch to cause the sleeve to engage and clutch to the housing. In one example the sleeve of the clutch is also the sleeve employed in a ball seat valve. In some such cases the force that opens the ball seat valve can also cause the sleeve of the clutch to engage and clutch to the housing. In other examples a separate actuation mechanism can be employed to engage the clutch.

The details of one or more examples of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

A challenge that is encountered in fracturing systems and other downhole applications is the need to clutch components downhole for mill out operations. One example of such an application is milling out one or more components of a valve that is actuated within a conduit of a tool string. For example the ball seat or other components of a ball seat valve may be milled out after the valve has been actuated to carry out fracturing operations.

Clutches are used in these applications to resist torque during the mill out operation so that the component that is being milled out does not rotate relative to the conduit within which the component is arranged. Currently many applications use clutches machined in situ which may suffer from a number of disadvantages including the amount of space needed for the clutch to operate and the complexity involved in and the time and costs associated with manufacturing the clutch.

In view of the foregoing challenges examples according to this disclosure include a clutch apparatus configured for use in a downhole tool string. Clutches in accordance with this disclosure include components that do not need to be machined downhole within a tool string. The example clutches include a relatively compact configuration which does not require additional space within a tool string conduit for engagement and disengagement. Additionally in some examples the clutch shares a component with the tool being milled out with the aid of the clutch. For example the clutch may include an annular sleeve that is configured to engage and clutch to an annular housing of a tool string conduit. The sleeve can also be a component of a ball seat valve that is actuated to catch a dropped ball and to open a fluid pathway to a portion of formation surrounding the tool. In some such cases the force that is applied to the ball to open the valve also functions to cause the sleeve of the clutch to engage with and clutch to the housing.

Clutches in accordance with this disclosure can include an annular housing including a shoulder extending radially inward from an inner surface of the housing and an annular sleeve received within the housing and configured to move longitudinally from a first position toward a second position within the housing in response to an applied force. The annular sleeve includes at least one tab protruding longitudinally from a first end of the sleeve. The annular sleeve is configured to allow the at least one tab of the sleeve to engage and at least partially penetrate the shoulder of the housing to inhibit relative rotation between the housing and sleeve.

As noted above and as described in the following examples the annular sleeve of a clutch apparatus in accordance with this disclosure can also be the sleeve that forms a component of a ball seat valve. However clutches in accordance with this disclosure can also be used in other applications different than those associated with ball seat valves. For example clutches in accordance with this disclosure can also be used with a hydraulically activated packer utilizing a sliding piston. More generally tools utilizing a hydraulically activated piston which requires a locking feature can employ a clutch in accordance with this disclosure. In another example a clutch in accordance with this disclosure could be employed with a down hole shut collar which is also a type of ball seat valve.

In the example ball seat valves permit selective fluid communication between the central passageway of tool string and each section of the annulus isolated between two of the packers which are located above and below each of the valves in wellbore . Each such section of the annulus surrounding tool string is in fluid communication with a corresponding earth formation zone or layer of formation . Of course if packers are not used then ball seat valves can be placed in communication with the individual zones by other mechanisms for example with perforations etc.

The zones of formation can be for example sections of the same formation or they may be sections of different formations. Each zone may be associated with one or more of ball seat valves . In order to carry out a fracturing operation on a particular one of the zones of formation the associated ball seat valve can be opened to allow communication between the central passageway of tool string and the associated zone.

For example one of ball seat valves can be activated by dropping a ball into tool string from the surface of the well. The dropped ball descends through the conduit forming string within wellbore until it lodges in a seat of valve . After the ball lodges in the ball seat fluid flow through the central passageway of tool string becomes restricted a condition that allows fluid pressure to be applied from the surface of the well for purposes of exerting a downward force on the ball. Additionally after the ball lodges in the ball seat ball seat valve can be opened to allow communication between the central passageway of tool string and the associated zone of formation .

In some situations it may be necessary or desirable to remove one or more components of ball seat valve after the valve has been actuated. In some cases the ball dropped into the seat of valve may be removed without requiring complex downhole tooling. However in other cases the ball seat and or other components of ball seat valve may need to be milled out to clear the conduit of tool string . As such tool string can include a clutch that is configured to enable milling out components of ball seat valve . The clutch can be employed to resist torque during the mill out operation so that the component that is being milled out does not rotate relative to the conduit within which the component is arranged. For example the clutch can be employed so that the seat and ball of ball seat valve do not rotate relative to the conduit of tool string .

Tool string includes a number of sections defined by different cylindrical housings connected to one another. The example of shows only a portion of tool string and it is noted that tool string can include a number of additional portions one or more of which can include additional ball seat valves and clutches in accordance with this disclosure similar to example tool string illustrated in .

In tool string includes housing within which sleeve of ball seat valve and clutch is arranged. Housing is coupled above to upper housing and below to lower housing . Housings of tool string including housings and can be coupled to one another in a variety of ways including e.g. threaded or spline connections interference fits and other mechanisms for connecting such components. Housings and form a hollow generally cylindrical casing of tool string that defines central conduit by which fluids can be communicated from the surface down a wellbore within which tool string is deployed.

Housings and as well as other components of tool string like sleeve can be sealed to one another employing various types of sealing mechanisms configured to inhibit ingress and egress of fluids and other materials into and out of central conduit of tool string . For example junctions between housing and and housing and include one or more O ring seals .

Clutch includes sleeve received within housing . Sleeve is received within housing such that the outer surface of sleeve abuts the inner surface of housing . Sleeve is configured to move longitudinally within housing . The central passageway of sleeve forms part of central conduit of tool string . As will be described in more detail below sleeve of clutch is configured to move within housing and to engage and clutch to housing .

Clutch can be engaged within tool string using a variety of mechanisms. As described above clutch includes sleeve which is configured to engage and clutch to housing . Sleeve is also one component of ball seat valve . In some such cases the force that is applied to the ball to open valve also functions to cause sleeve to engage with and clutch to housing .

In another example a separate actuator can be employed to engage clutch . For example tool string includes piston which can be configured to engage clutch . Piston is arranged and configured to move within upper housing . Piston can be actuated to move down and push sleeve into engagement with housing . In the example of multiple O rings circumscribe the outer surface of piston and form corresponding annular seals between the outer surface of piston and the inner surface of upper housing .

Movement of piston within tool string can be achieved with a variety of mechanical or electromechanical mechanisms. In one example piston is dropped within upper housing to engage sleeve using a hydraulic mechanism. In a small chamber is defined between a portion of the outer surface of piston and the inner surface of upper housing . Chamber can be filled with a hydraulic fluid such that the presence of the incompressible fluid prevents piston from being pushed downward within upper housing . During fracturing operations using tool string the pressure within central conduit remains relatively high e.g. approximately 2000 psi or more when fracking fluid is not being actively transmitted under pressure through the conduit. Thus in the absence of the hydraulic fluid in chamber piston would be pushed by the pressure in central conduit from the position in down to the position in .

In one example therefore piston is dropped within upper housing to engage split ring baffle by evacuating the hydraulic fluid from chamber . When the hydraulic fluid in chamber is removed or substantially removed the pressure within chamber holding piston in position is reduced creating a pressure imbalance between the pressure within central conduit of tool string and chamber that causes piston to move down within upper housing . Eventually piston engages split ring baffle and moves baffle into the contracted ball catching state illustrated in .

The hydraulic fluid can be removed from chamber to actuate piston in a variety of ways. In one example the hydraulic fluid is evacuated from chamber by piercing a membrane that covers an outlet port of chamber . However in another example a small mechanical door or valve can be actuated to open a fluid outlet to remove the hydraulic fluid from chamber . For example an electromagnetic mechanism can be employed to pierce the membrane to evacuate the hydraulic fluid from chamber and thereby actuate piston .

In one example to actuate piston a magnetic device is deployed within a chamber or other passage in tool string that is adjacent to an actuator that is employed to evacuate the hydraulic fluid from chamber . The magnetic device can be a ferromagnetic cylinder or other shaped ferromagnetic material like a ball dart plug fluid gel etc. In one example a ferrofluid magnetorheological fluid or any other fluid having magnetic properties could be pumped to or past a magnetic sensor in order to transmit a magnetic signal to the actuator. Once deployed the signal s generated by the magnetic device can be detected by a magnetic sensor in tool string .

In the event the magnetic sensor detects a signature signal that corresponds to deployment of the magnetic device electronics incorporated into tool string can be configured to engage the actuator to open the valve which functions to evacuate the hydraulic fluid from chamber to actuate piston to move within housing . For example if the electronic circuitry determines that the sensor has detected a predetermined magnetic signal s the electronic circuitry causes a valve device to open. In one example the valve device includes a piercing member which pierces the membrane that covers an outlet port of chamber . The piercing member that is engaged to pierce the membrane sealing chamber can be driven by any means such as by an electrical hydraulic mechanical explosive chemical or other type of actuator. Additional details about and examples of such electro hydraulic valves are described in U.S. Publication No. 2013 0048290 entitled INJECTION OF FLUID INTO SELECTED ONES OF MULTIPLE ZONES WITH WELL TOOLS SELECTIVELY RESPONSIVE TO MAGNETIC PATTERNS which was filed on Aug. 29 2011.

In another example clutch can be engaged by a tool deployed from the surface downhole within tool string . For example a mill deployed to mill out one or more components of ball seat valve may also be configured to engage clutch prior to the mill out operation. A variety of other mechanisms can also be employed to apply the necessary force to sleeve of clutch to cause the sleeve to move down and engage housing .

Referring to annular sleeve of clutch is depicted in more detail. In sleeve of clutch includes tabs and hooks . Tabs protrude longitudinally from one end of sleeve and are distributed approximately evenly around the circumference of the sleeve. Example sleeve of clutch includes three tabs . However in other examples an annular sleeve of a clutch in accordance with this disclosure can include more or fewer tabs and such tabs can be evenly or unevenly distributed around the circumference of one end of the sleeve. The number of tabs can be selected based at least in part on the rotational forces encountered by the clutch e.g. during a mill out operation. For example to resist higher torques during a mill out operation the annular sleeve of the clutch can include more tabs.

Hooks are also distributed evenly around and define portions of the circumference of the end of sleeve including tabs . Hooks are interposed circumferentially between tabs . Example sleeve of clutch includes three hooks . However in other examples an annular sleeve of a clutch in accordance with this disclosure can include more or fewer hooks and such hooks can be evenly or unevenly distributed around the circumference of one end of the sleeve. The number of hooks can be selected based at least in part on the axial forces encountered by the clutch e.g. as a result of fluid pressure within the conduit of a tool string within which the clutch is arranged. For example to resist higher pressures during fracturing operations on a formation the annular sleeve of the clutch can include more hooks.

In practice an actuation force can an act upon sleeve of clutch to cause sleeve to move within and engage housing to prevent relative rotation and axial translation between housing and sleeve . For example annular sleeve is configured to move longitudinally from a first position toward a second position within housing in response to an applied force. When sleeve moves from the first position to the second position tabs engage and at least partially penetrate shoulder to inhibit relative rotation between housing and sleeve . Additionally when sleeve is in the second position hooks of sleeve to catch groove in the inner surface of housing to inhibit relative longitudinal translation between sleeve and housing .

In in addition to tabs piercing shoulder hooks of sleeve catch groove in the inner surface of housing . When hooks of sleeve catch grooves of housing hooks function to inhibit relative longitudinal translation between sleeve and housing . Hooks can be fabricated from a resilient material e.g. a resilient metallic alloy. In some examples sleeve and hooks are fabricated from the same alloy as split ring baffle including e.g. SAE steel grades or an austenitic nickel chromium alloy or a martensitic stainless steel. Hooks include a tapered outer surface that is configured to engage a tapered surface of groove such that when sleeve moves down within housing hooks initially deflect radially inward as the tapered surface of hooks engage the tapered surface of groove and then hooks resiliently deflect radially outward and catch in groove .

As noted above in one example the force generated above ball seat valve after a ball has been lodged in seat can also cause sleeve of clutch to engage and clutch to housing . For example after the ball lodges in seat fluid flow through central conduit of tool string becomes restricted a condition that allows fluid pressure to be applied from the surface of the well for purposes of exerting a downward force on the ball. Fluid pressure generated during fracturing operations can reach relatively high levels of between approximately 3000 to approximately 5000 psi. Seat in which the ball is lodged is attached to sleeve of clutch . Fluid pressure on the ball is transferred to sleeve which can cause sleeve to move within housing and cause tabs to engage and at least partially penetrate shoulder to clutch sleeve to housing . Additionally the movement of sleeve can also cause hooks to catch groove in the inner surface of housing to inhibit relative longitudinal translation between sleeve and housing .

Ball seat of valve is more generally a baffle configured to receive a ball or other plug to substantially block movement of fluids through the conduit of a wellbore. As illustrated in more detail in ball seat of valve can include a split ring baffle. Split ring baffle is at least partially received within sleeve . Split ring baffle is longitudinally moveable between a first position and a second position within sleeve . The outer surface of split ring baffle is configured to engage the inner surface of sleeve to cause baffle when in the first position to be relatively radially expanded and when moved to the second position in the sleeve to radially contract . The function and structure of a split ring baffle that can be employed in ball seat valves that coordinate function with clutches in accordance with this disclosure is described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 958 122 by the same inventor entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTRICTING FLUID FLOW IN A DOWNHOLE TOOL filed on Aug. 2 2013. Although clutch is described and illustrated in conjunction with ball seat valve including split ring baffle in other examples clutches in accordance with this disclosure can be employed with valves including other types of ball seats baffles and as noted earlier herein with tools and mechanisms other than ball seat valves.

Ball seat valve is configured to be opened and closed and split ring baffle of valve is configured to be contracted and re expanded within sleeve . Removal of the ball from and re expansion of split ring baffle is important to operation of tool string to provide the maximum size of central conduit of string for subsequent operations. Additionally as noted above after ball seat valve has been actuated to carry out fracturing operations and clutch has been engaged one or more of the ball split ring baffle and or sleeve may need to be milled out. Clutch is configured to resist torque during the mill out operation so that the ball baffle and sleeve do not rotate relative to housing .

In order to re open valve the ball must be dislodged from split ring baffle . In practice the ball can be dislodged from split ring baffle in a number of ways. In one example the ball is dislodged from split ring baffle by back pressure within conduit of tool string after fracturing operations on a zone associated with valve are completed. After completing fracturing operations on the zone the fluid pressure employed to communicate the fracking fluid through tool string is reduced. However pressure below ball seat valve remains significant. In practice this can create a pressure imbalance that creates a net positive pressure below ball seat valve which can push on and cause the ball to become dislodged from split ring baffle . As the ball is dislodged from split ring baffle the ball can also function to pull baffle upward within sleeve . Thus dislodging the ball from baffle can also cause baffle to move upward within sleeve and radially re expand.

In some cases however the back pressure within conduit after fracturing operations are completed is not sufficient to dislodge the ball and or re expand baffle . In such cases the ball and or baffle must be milled out of conduit . Additionally in some circumstances it may be necessary or desirable to mill out Clutch can be engaged in this event to resist the torques generated from the milling operation on the ball and or baffle .

For example sleeve is configured to move longitudinally from a first position toward a second position within housing in response to an applied force including e.g. in response to fluid pressure or another actuation mechanism like piston . Annular sleeve includes at least one tab protruding longitudinally from one end of sleeve . Housing includes shoulder which extends radially inward from the inner surface of housing . Sleeve is moveable from the first position to the second position to cause the at least one tab to engage and at least partially penetrate shoulder of housing . Tab s of example sleeve is configured to inhibit relative rotation and longitudinal translation between housing and sleeve .

Additional details regarding the configuration of annular sleeve are illustrated in the perspective view of . As illustrated in example sleeve includes four tabs protruding longitudinally from and evenly distributed around the circumference of one end of sleeve . However in other examples an annular sleeve of a clutch in accordance with this disclosure can include more or fewer tabs and such tabs can be evenly or unevenly distributed around the circumference of one end of the sleeve. The number of tabs can be selected based at least in part on the rotational and axial forces encountered by the clutch e.g. during a mill out operation.

Tabs of sleeve are configured to engage housing to inhibit both relative rotation and longitudinal translation between housing and sleeve . depict sleeve moved downward within and clutched to housing . As noted the force applied to sleeve to cause sleeve to move within and clutch to housing can be applied by a number of different mechanisms. In one example the force generated above a ball seat valve including split ring baffle and sleeve after a ball has been lodged in baffle can also cause sleeve of clutch to engage and clutch to housing . In another example piston which may also function to move split ring baffle into the contracted ball catching state also can be configured to cause sleeve to move within housing and cause tabs to clutch sleeve to housing .

Regardless of the manner in which sleeve moves into engagement with housing when sleeve is pushed longitudinally within housing until tabs engage and at least partially penetrate shoulder of housing tabs deform at least partially into groove in the inner surface of housing as illustrated in . Example sleeve is configured such that tabs are configured to only partially penetrate shoulder or as it is sometimes described tabs are configured to coin into shoulder . Tabs of sleeve partially penetrating shoulder housing can function to inhibit relative rotation between housing and sleeve . Deformation of at least a portion of tabs into groove in housing on the other hand can function to inhibit relative longitudinal translation between sleeve and housing . In this manner tabs of annular sleeve are configured to engage housing to inhibit both relative rotation and longitudinal translation between housing and sleeve .

The method of may form part or all of the process by which clutch or clutch are engaged downhole within a tool string. An example of the method of is described above with reference to which illustrate movement of annular sleeve of clutch downward within housing to cause tabs of sleeve to pierce through shoulder of housing to inhibit relative rotation between housing and sleeve . Another example of the method of is described above with reference to which illustrate movement of annular sleeve of clutch downward within housing to cause tabs of sleeve to partially penetrate shoulder and partially deform into groove of housing to inhibit relative rotation and longitudinal translation between housing and sleeve .

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

