---

title: Methods and apparatus for preferred data traffic (application) mode
abstract: Methods and apparatus for preferring connections between networks. In one embodiment, a mobile device is capable of hybrid network operation (e.g. LTE and CDMA 1× operation), allowing the mobile device to be registered to a CDMA 1× network for voice calls while receiving and sending data traffic over a LTE network. However, any data sent by the LTE network may be lost if the data was transmitted during a tune-away to the CDMA 1× network to perform maintenance operations. In one variant, the mobile device can disable the idle voice connection to the CDMA 1× network based on a request from resident applications requiring real-time data streaming, which are more likely to experience data loss. Consequently, potential data loss due to a network tune-away is prevented, thereby improving data performance of the resident applications. In another embodiment, an adaptive transmit receive mode can be selectively disabled/enabled for data traffic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307489&OS=09307489&RS=09307489
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09307489
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130220
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Applicant Ser. No. 61 600 923 filed Feb. 20 2012 of the same title which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to co owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 204 617 filed Aug. 5 2011 and entitled ELECTRONIC DEVICE WITH ANTENNA SWITCH CAPABILITIES Ser. No. 13 640 049 filed Aug. 1 2011 and entitled METHODS FOR TRANSMIT ANTENNA SWITCHING DURING UPLINK ACCESS PROBING Ser. No. 13 195 761 filed Aug. 1 2011 and entitled ANTENNA SWITCHING SYSTEM WITH ADAPTIVE SWITCHING CRITERIA Ser. No. 13 347 925 filed Jan. 11 2012 and entitled METHODS FOR COORDINATED SIGNAL RECEPTION ACROSS INTEGRATED CIRCUIT BOUNDARIES Ser. No. 13 346 419 filed Jan. 9 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC TRANSMIT CONFIGURATIONS IN DEVICES WITH MULTIPLE ANTENNAS Ser. No. 13 195 732 filed Aug. 1 2011 and entitled LTE 1 DUAL STANDBY WITH SINGLE CHIP RADIO Ser. No. 13 099 204 filed May 2 2011 and entitled SINGLE RADIO DEVICE SUPPORTING COEXISTENCE BETWEEN MULTIPLE RADIO ACCESS TECHNOLOGIES Ser. No. 13 099 081 filed May 2 2011 and entitled IDLE MODE RECEIVE ANTENNA DIVERSITY SYSTEM Ser. No. 13 099 204 filed Apr. 22 2011 and entitled SINGLE RADIO DEVICE SUPPORTING COEXISTENCE BETWEEN MULTIPLE RADIO ACCESS TECHNOLOGIES and co owned U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 488 649 filed on May 20 2011 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR CLIENT SERVER INTERACTION IN HYBRID NETWORK ENVIRONMENTS 61 488 663 filed on May 20 2011 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR OPTIMIZING SCHEDULED OPERATIONS IN HYBRID NETWORK ENVIRONMENTS 61 488 620 filed May 20 2011 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK ASSISTED HYBRID NETWORK OPERATION 61 478 922 filed Apr. 25 2011 and entitled DUAL NETWORK MOBILE DEVICE RADIO RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 61 472 617 filed Apr. 6 2011 and entitled MULTIPLE NETWORK MOBILE DEVICE CONNECTION MANAGEMENT 61 433 160 filed Jan. 14 2011 and entitled DYNAMIC LOADING IN DEVICES WITH MULTIPLE ANTENNAS and 61 433 162 filed Jan. 14 2011 and entitled MULTIMODE USER EQUIPMENT WITH DUAL CIRCUIT ARCHITECTURE each of the foregoing being incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates generally to operation within heterogenous wireless systems such as for example hybrid network operation in which client devices can communicate using any one or more of several networks or access technologies. More particularly in one exemplary case the present disclosure is directed to methods and apparatus for enabling a preferred data traffic mode on client devices based on application needs.

A cellular network operator provides mobile telecommunications services to the public via a network infrastructure of e.g. cellular base stations BS base station controllers infrastructure nodes etc. There is a wide variety of cellular network technologies and historically cellular devices have been specialized for operation within a single cellular network. However as cellular technologies have become increasingly commoditized devices are now able to offer so called multimode operation i.e. a single device that is capable of operation on two or more cellular or other wireless networks. Multimode operation allows a device to operate on any one of several network technologies but does not enable operation on multiple network technologies simultaneously.

Incipient research is directed to so called hybrid network operation. During hybrid network operation the client device operates simultaneously among multiple distinct networks having different technologies. In one exemplary case a hybrid device can support both i Long Term Evolution LTE and ii Code Division Multiple Access 1 CDMA 1 networks i.e. the device can maintain a simultaneous connection between an LTE network and a CDMA 1 network. For example a LTE CDMA 1 switched mode device can conduct a voice call over the CDMA 1 network while the mobile device is in LTE mode for data services. In another exemplary case a hybrid device can support both i CDMA 1 EVDO Evolution Data Optimized and ii CDMA 1 networks.

Existing solutions for hybrid network operation rely on the client device to manage its own operation between networks. Specifically the client device is responsible for maintaining its active connections to the various service networks there are no required changes to existing network installations i.e. hybrid network operation does not affect the legacy hardware and software of the network infrastructure . Client centric hybrid operation has several benefits. For example there is very little if any infrastructure cost for the network operator. Moreover hardware costs can be incorporated into the price of consumer devices. Additionally hybrid network operation will not affect existing legacy devices. Similarly devices capable of hybrid or switched mode operation are also capable of normal operation.

However a mobile device may share antenna resources for the hybrid network operation which can cause problems. For example while a mobile device is attached to a first LTE network it must periodically tune away from the LTE network to perform CDMA 1 actions such as decoding the Quick Paging Channel QPCH or Paging Channel PCH to determine if the device is being paged . If the mobile device is receiving data from the LTE network during the tune out period this data is lost. This loss of data can negatively impact the performance of applications running on the mobile device especially applications sensitive to data loss e.g. real time applications .

Consequently improved methods and apparatus are needed for reducing data loss or other adverse consequences of hybrid network operation.

The present disclosure satisfies the aforementioned needs by providing inter alia improved apparatus and methods for prioritizing connections between networks.

A method for prioritizing connections of a mobile device between networks is disclosed. In one embodiment the method includes monitoring a parameter indicative of a preferred connection setting between two or more networks determining based on the parameter when a change has been indicated and updating the preferred connection setting based at least in on the determination.

In one variant the method further includes the mobile device modifying one or more connections between the two or more networks based at least in part on the updated preferred connection setting.

In a second embodiment the method includes receiving a notification from a mobile device the notification includes at least a request based at least in part on a desired prioritized network connection and adjusting one or more parameters relating to scheduled communications with the mobile device at least partly in response to the received notification.

A mobile device having preferred connection management is disclosed. In one embodiment the mobile device includes a processor two or more wireless interfaces in data communication with the processor and logic in data communication with the processor and two or more wireless interfaces.

In one variant the logic is configured to monitor one or more operational conditions of the mobile device detect a change in the one or more operational conditions determine when a change to a connection configuration of the at least one of the two or more wireless interfaces is desired and update the connection configuration based at least in part on the determination.

A non transitory computer readable apparatus configured for use in a mobile device is disclosed. In one embodiment the computer readable apparatus includes a plurality of instructions that when executed by a digital processor monitors a parameter indicative of a preferred connection setting between two or more networks determines based on the parameter when a change has been indicated and updates the preferred connection setting based at least in part on the determination

In a second embodiment the non transitory computer readable apparatus is configured for use in a base station the computer readable apparatus includes a plurality of instructions that when executed by a digital processor receives a notification from a mobile device the notification comprising at least a request based at least in part on a desired prioritized network connection and adjusts one or more parameters relating to scheduled communications with the mobile device at least partly in response to the received notification.

An integrated circuit IC is disclosed. In one embodiment the IC comprises circuit logic which is configured to implement the prioritization of connection between networks.

A wireless system is disclosed. In one embodiment the system includes a plurality of base stations and a plurality of mobile user devices. The mobile user devices are configured to implement prioritized connections between the plurality of base stations.

A network apparatus capable of facilitating prioritized network connections with mobile devices is disclosed. In one embodiment the base network apparatus includes a processor at least one wireless interface in data communication with the processor logic in data communication with the processor and the at least one wireless interface.

In one variant the logic configured to receive a notification from the mobile device via the at least one wireless interface the notification comprising at least a desired prioritized network connection setting determine based at least in part on the desired prioritized network connection setting and based at least in part on the determination adjust one or more parameters relating to scheduled communication with the mobile device.

A method of selectively enabling and disabling an adaptive transmit receive diversity ATRD mode is disclosed.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will immediately be recognized by persons of ordinary skill in the art with reference to the attached drawings and detailed description of exemplary embodiments as given below.

Various embodiments described herein provide inter alia apparatus and methods for a client device to prioritize connection modes in a hybrid network. In one exemplary embodiment a UE operating in CDMA 1 and LTE networks can enable and disable connection to the CDMA 1 network so as to minimally affect LTE network operation.

For example as described in greater detail hereinafter a switched mode UE can selectively disable a CDMA 1 connection used for voice when running applications which are more susceptible to data loss such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and video conferencing which utilize real time data streaming. By disabling the CDMA 1 connection maintenance operations for the CDMA 1 channel are not performed thereby freeing antenna resources for the LTE data connection thus mitigating possible data packet loss over the LTE connection.

Exemplary embodiments are now described in detail. While these embodiments are primarily discussed in the context of Long Term Evolution LTE Time Division LTE TD LTE Code Division Multiple Access 1 CDMA 1 cellular networks CDMA 1 EVDO Evolution Data Optimized Time Division Synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM it will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that the present disclosure is not so limited. In fact the various principles described herein are useful in combination with any network cellular wireless wireline or otherwise that can benefit from enabling a preferred data traffic mode.

Moreover it will be appreciated that while exemplary embodiments of the apparatus and methods are described in terms of disabling a network connection e.g. a network connection handling voice calls e.g. CDMA 1 so as to mitigate or eliminate the effects on a data connection over another network e.g. LTE i these roles may be reversed e.g. some LTE network tasks can be disabled so as to minimize impact on the CDMA 1 network and ii a cooperative approach may be implemented e.g. where both networks receive prioritized connections so as to minimize impact on both networks .

During LTE CDMA 1 switched mode operation the UE can place CDMA 1 voice calls while registered with the LTE network. The UE is capable of receiving and responding to data and control messaging from either the LTE network or the CDMA 1 network unfortunately the UE in this scenario cannot respond simultaneously to both networks. In one such embodiment the UE always prioritizes CDMA 1 voice call traffic over LTE data traffic to ensure that user experience for voice calls is unaffected. Other implementations may have other prioritization schemes e.g. where voice calls are lower priority based on the type of traffic historic device usage etc. .

Within this context many operations can be greatly affected by the UE switching. For example as described in co owned and co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 488 649 filed on May 20 2011 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR CLIENT SERVER INTERACTION IN HYBRID NETWORK ENVIRONMENTS incorporated herein by reference in its entirety maintenance tasks that are interrupted can introduce data corruptions and or errors which can contribute to highly undesirable behavior e.g. networks being barred devices being improperly managed etc. . While the foregoing disclosure provides methods and apparatus for modifying network management for hybrid operation further improvements to client device operation so as to alleviate data traffic loss may be useful.

In particular once the UE has connected to the LTE network A the UE will periodically tune its radio away from the LTE network to perform CDMA 1 maintenance actions such as for example acquiring a CDMA 1 cell registering to the acquired CDMA 1 cell and receiving CDMA 1 pages etc. Depending on CDMA 1 network B radio conditions the tune away in one exemplary implementation may last from thirty milliseconds 30 ms up to three hundred milliseconds 300 ms in ideal conditions. Therefore any data sent by the LTE network A during this time period will be lost. Moreover when the UE receives or places a voice call on the CDMA 1 network the LTE connection may be dropped.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure prioritize connections with a first network over connections with a second network to improve operation of the first network. For example CDMA 1 may have its tune away procedure disabled to improve LTE operation. Accordingly the client device can increase hybrid network data performance by ensuring that various CDMA 1 tasks are delayed or the periodicity may be increased in multiples or completely avoided during particular LTE network operation.

As is understood in the art Global System for Mobile Communications GSM is a cellular technology standard and has evolved a number of advancements including General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS also known as 3G Third Generation UMTS.

In an exemplary embodiment relating to both TD LTE and GSM a UE operating in a switched mode connection to the TD LTE network will periodically tune its radio away from the TD LTE network to perform GSM actions such as cell selection registration and receiving pages. Likewise a UE may be operating in an adaptive receive transmit diversity ATRD mode with any of the aforementioned cellular networks thereby improving transmit signal quality.

Referring now to one embodiment of a generalized method for selecting a particular network connection over another network connection is illustrated. In one implementation an exemplary client device maintains connections to multiple networks where the networks are entirely unaware of the client device s connection to the other networks and thus are unable to coordinate their transmissions. In another variant the client device is capable of communicating with a network using an adaptive transmit receive diversity ATRD mode discussed in more detail below with respect to

At step the client device monitors one or more parameters. In one embodiment the monitored parameters relate to applications resident to the client device. In one variant the applications include indicators indicative of a desired network mode setting. For example an application may include an indicator which specifies a preferred data traffic mode requesting that the client device give higher priority to the data network connection over a voice network connection. In one implementation the indicators are set by the application designer or a third party. In another implementation the indicators are determined by a modifiable setting selectable by a user of the exemplary client device or by automated selection logic such as via a supervisory process running on the device or in a remote entity . Common examples of indicators include interrupts flags variables etc.

In another embodiment the monitored parameters relate to voice and data traffic parameters at the client device. In one implementation the client device monitors the type of data traffic being received and or transmitted by the client device. For example in the instance of Internet Protocol IP data traffic the Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP field or the flow label field of incoming IP packet headers may be monitored as an indication of a need for a low latency connection and or a particular sensitivity to packet loss.

In another variant the client device monitors the types of files being sent or received. In yet another implementation the amount of data flow being transmitted or received by the device is monitored.

Additionally in one variant the client may also provide an API for the applications to invoke the usage of the parameter.

At step of the method the client device detects a change in the parameters. In one embodiment the detected change is the initialization or termination of an application by the client device. In another embodiment the detected change is a variation in the amount of received and or transmitted data traffic at the client device. In one variant the change in data traffic is determined on the change of type of data traffic being sent or received. Alternatively the change in data traffic can be based on a sufficiently large change in the data flow being transmitted and or received at the client device.

At step the detected change of the monitored parameter s is evaluated to determine if the detected change is indicative of a change in a priority setting. In one embodiment a detected change in running applications is evaluated to determine if the initialized or terminated application contained an indicator of a preferred network setting. For example an application may have been initialized where the application contained an indicator requesting the client device to give priority to operating data traffic over voice traffic. In this instance the indicator is interpreted as a request to give priority to a data traffic mode. On the other hand if the application is being terminated the application may indicate no longer needing or requiring priority to a data traffic mode.

In another embodiment the change in the type of data being received and or transmitted is evaluated to determine if the type of data is indicative of a preferred connection setting. For example in one implementation if the type of data is of a type related to real time data streaming e.g. voice over IP VOIP video conference stream etc. that type of data is taken as a signal to request an assigned higher priority to the data network connection of the client device over the voice network connection.

In yet another implementation the data flow is measured for sufficient increases or decreases in data flow indicative of an increasing or decreasing importance of the connection to the network handling the data network compared to the network handling the voice connection.

At step of the method the priority setting is updated in accordance with the determination made in step . In one embodiment the priority setting which is updated is a preferred data mode which enables or disables a network connection used for voice calls in order to maximize resources for a network connection used for a data. In one exemplary variant the connection to the CDMA 1 network used for voice is not completely disabled but instead performs a tune away to the CDMA 1 connection from the LTE connection less frequently e.g. at a reduced frequency or on an event driven basis . By still maintaining network tune away maintenance operations are still performed on the voice connection while still enabling the monitoring of the Quick Paging Channel QPCH or Paging Channel PCH for incoming calls and overhead updates.

In another implementation the client device notifies the CDMA 1 network of the change in the priority setting so that the CDMA 1 network and client device may coordinate maintenance operations and paging schedules or to indicate that the client device will unavailable to receive incoming voice calls. After the priority setting update has been performed the method proceeds back to step to continue monitoring the parameter s . In one embodiment the client device performs configuration changes in accordance with the updated priority setting before returning back to step .

In one exemplary implementation of ATRD the TX will change from antenna A to A or vice versa depending on which antenna is demonstrating a sufficiently high RX channel receive quality as compared to the other RX channel. However the RX channel signal quality can only be measured during periods which transmissions are received. Therefore in periods when the RX channels are not receiving transmission traffic it is more difficult to determine which antenna provides the best potential transmit signal quality. Thus ATRD is typically most effective in situations where receive transmissions are continuous such as with voice traffic. Accordingly ATRD may be less effective in situations where receive transmission may be more intermittent such as packet switched data traffic which may be sent in bursts with time gaps between receive signals.

One salient advantage of the described embodiments is that if data traffic is predicatively constant ATRD can be used over packet switch connections to improve transmit signal quality. For example applications utilizing the reception of real time data streams can provide a continual receive channel quality akin to voice traffic. In addition applications which also utilize real time data streaming in the upstream i.e. transmit channel such as VoIP and video conference may gain improvements in the data transmit performance.

At step the mobile device monitors the software environment of the device for any applications that are initialized and or terminated. In one embodiment the applications can be enabled to contain a marker requesting that a setting labeled ATRD over PS Adaptive Transmit Receive Diversity over Packet Switched be set to On . In one implementation the marker may be a user driven setting per application or an autonomous setting provided to application via application programming interfaces API . By requesting that ATRD over PS be set to On the application is signaling that it may benefit from ATRD for data traffic operation. When the ATRD over PS Off the ATRD for packet switched connections is not active and instead packet switch transmit and receive operations are handled in one exemplary variant in accordance with a best effort traffic implementation. Upon detecting a change in the applications which are running on the mobile device the mobile proceeds to step .

At step the mobile device detects a change in the applications running on the resident device. For example in one embodiment a user of the UE may have initialized or terminated an application on the device. A change in what applications are actively running on the mobile device is indicative of a potential need to update the ATRD over PS setting.

At step the mobile determines if the detected change is representative of the change in the ATRD over PS setting. In one embodiment a newly initialized application may have contained a marker to set ATRD over PS On . If the ATRD over PS setting is currently set to Off the mobile device interprets the request to On an indicative change in the desired ATRD over PS setting.

Additionally an application may have been terminated which had previously signaled a request for ATRD over PS On . If the ATRD over PS is currently set to On and no other currently applications have requested that ATRD over PS On the mobile device interprets the detected termination of the application as a signal that ATRD over PS can be set to Off and that data utilization of the ATRD data traffic mode may no longer be required and or be of a significant benefit. In one variant the mobile device may ignore the signal to update the ATRD over PS setting upon a determination that modifying the RX TX mode i.e. to enable disable ATRD is not appropriate under the operating circumstances.

At step the mobile device updates the ATRD over PS setting in accordance with the determination made in step . In one embodiment the ATRD over PS setting is maintained by the operating system of the mobile device. The operating system updates ATRD over PS setting and proceeds to notify the processing element responsible for managing the ATRD connection mode. After the ATRD over PS setting is updated the mobile device returns to step to continually monitor the running application s . In one implementation prior to returning back to step the mobile device will modify operation of RX TX mode in accordance with the updated ATRD over PS setting.

Referring now to one exemplary implementation of the generalized method is shown and described specifically in the context prioritizing network connections of client device between a Long Term Evolution LTE network and Code Division Multiple Access 1 CDMA 1 network. In one embodiment an exemplary LTE CDMA 1 user equipment UE device is capable of executing a variety of real time streaming applications e.g. video conferencing Voice over IP etc. .

At step the UE monitors the device for any applications that are initialized and or terminated on the UE. In one embodiment the monitoring is performed by software executed by an application processor of the UE. The applications can be enabled to contain an indicator requesting that a setting such as one labeled Preferred Data Traffic Mode PDTM be set to On . The indictor may be a user driven setting per application or an autonomous setting provided to application via an external entity through an application programming interface API . By requesting that PDTM be set to On the application is indicating that the LTE CDMA 1 switched mode can be disabled. The switched mode is disabled by only continuing to operate the network responsible for data traffic in this instance the LTE network connection. Accordingly the CDMA 1 connection is disabled thereby obviating the need to perform tune away to the CDMA 1 network to perform maintenance operations and listen for paging requests. Upon detecting a change in the applications which are running on the UE the UE proceeds to step to determine if the detected change is indicative of a change in the prioritization of data usage on the device.

As a brief aside applications which are sensitive to packet loss such as real time data streaming applications would benefit particularly from the PDTM . For example applications offering voice servicing such as VoIP and video conferencing such as the exemplary FaceTime video calling software may operate by using real time data streams. As real time data streams are received at the device on a continual basis the likelihood of losing data from a CDMA tune away is high and would negatively affect the application s performance. Therefore disabling the CDMA connection on the UE prevents any related data loss that would be attributable to a potential tune away to the CDMA network. Furthermore the impact of losing the voice traffic connection to the CDMA 1 network is mitigated as the user may be implementing voice services through the real time applications.

At step the UE detects a change in the application running on the resident device. For example a user of the UE may have initialized or terminated an application on the device. A change in the applications that are actively running on the UE can indicate of a potential need to update the PDTM setting as there may be a need to reinitialize hybrid mode operation to receive any potential voice traffic or to disable the hybrid mode operation to mitigate potential loss of data traffic.

At step the UE determines if the detected change is indicative of the change in the PDTM setting. For example a newly initialized application contain an indicator to set PDTM On . If the PDTM is currently set to Off the UE interprets the request to On an indicative change in the desired PDTM setting. However such a request may be denied by the UE. For instance if the UE is actively receiving and or sending voice traffic the UE may not wish to disable the connection to the network handling the voice connection as the voice traffic would be terminated.

Additionally an application may be terminated which had previously indicated a request for PDTM On . If the PDTM is currently set to On and no other currently applications have requested flagged that PDTM be set to On the UE interprets the termination of the application as an indication that PDTM may be set to Off and that hybrid mode operation can be reinstated so the UE can reconnect to a voice network connection.

At step the UE updates the PDTM setting in accordance with the determination made in step . In one embodiment the PDTM setting is maintained by the operating system of the UE. The operating system updates PDTM setting and proceeds to notify the processing element responsible for managing the UE s network connections.

At step the connection s are updated in accordance with the PDTM setting. In one embodiment the application processor passes the PDTM setting to the baseband processor responsible for managing the UE s radio connections e.g. CDMA 1 LTE etc. . For example the baseband processor s of a UE capable of LTE CDMA 1 hybrid mode is responsible for managing the LTE i.e. data connection in addition to the CDMA 1 i.e. voice connection. If the baseband processor receives a PDTM On the baseband processor will disable the hybrid mode and discontinue operation of the CDMA 1 connection while performing any requisite signaling to the CDMA 1 network. Alternatively if the baseband processor receives a PDTM Off the baseband processor will reinitialize the hybrid mode operation of the UE and reconnect to a CDMA 1 network. After network connection s have been updated the UE proceeds back to step to monitor applications for any possible requested changes to the PDTM setting.

Referring now to the exemplary user equipment UE apparatus is illustrated in greater detail. The UE includes i one or more Radio Frequency RF front ends ii one or more baseband processors and iii at least one application processor associated memor ies various network interface s and a user interface . In various implementations the RF front ends and baseband processors may be further specialized to handle a single wireless technology or generalized multi purposed to encompass multiple wireless technologies.

As shown the exemplary UE includes a first RF front end that is coupled to both first and second baseband processors adapted to interface to different networks e.g. an LTE network and a CDMA 1 network respectively. It is further appreciated that the foregoing configuration is purely illustrative and various implementations may include other cellular technologies such as GSM GPRS EDGE WCDMA CDMA2000 CDMA 1 EVDO TD SCMDA LTE A LTE Advanced TD LTE WiMAX 802.16 etc. in various combinations.

Moreover while only a single RF front end is shown for simplicity it is appreciated that a RF front end can and generally will include multiple receive and or transmit antennas and or chains. For example well known MIMO Multiple In Multiple Out SISO Single In Single Out MISO Multiple In Single Out and SIMO Single In Multiple Out antenna configurations are widely used within the related arts and may be used consistent with the present disclosure.

Additionally in one exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the UE RF front end further comprises a switching fabric that can connect any one or more of the baseband processors to various one or more of the antennas . In one implementation the switching fabric is adapted to connect either the LTE baseband or CDMA 1 baseband to the RF front end. However common embodiments may connect one baseband processor to one antenna one to one one to many many to one etc. This switching capability is desirable for a number of reasons including for example i power management ii processing efficiency flexibility and iii antenna isolation constraints that may require that only a subset of radios of a mobile device are active at any one time. In some small form factor designs there is not enough space to completely isolate multiple antennas during operation consequently only one antenna can be active at any time. Similarly certain form factor designs may reuse antennas for different wireless interfaces such that only one wireless interface can use a common antenna at any given time. Yet other motivations will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the related arts and are not discussed further herein e.g. business or profit considerations network utilization etc. 

Moreover it will be appreciated that other components are commonly incorporated within UE but are not discussed further herein. For example the UE may include user interface components display screens buttons touch screens dials etc. memory components e.g. RAM Random Access Memory Flash hard disk drives HDD etc. power management components e.g. batteries charger components etc. and external interfaces e.g. Fire Wire Universal Serial Bus USB Thunderbolt etc. .

Furthermore it should be recognized that the UE depicted in is merely illustrative of one exemplary embodiment. Still other variants useful with the present disclosure are described with greater detail in co owned and co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 478 922 filed Apr. 25 2011 and entitled DUAL NETWORK MOBILE DEVICE RADIO RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 61 472 617 filed Apr. 6 2011 and entitled MULTIPLE NETWORK MOBILE DEVICE CONNECTION MANAGEMENT 61 433 160 filed Jan. 14 2011 and entitled DYNAMIC LOADING IN DEVICES WITH MULTIPLE ANTENNAS and 61 433 162 filed Jan. 14 2011 and entitled MULTIMODE USER EQUIPMENT WITH DUAL CIRCUIT ARCHITECTURE and co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 099 204 filed May 2 2011 and entitled SINGLE RADIO DEVICE SUPPORTING COEXISTENCE BETWEEN MULTIPLE RADIO ACCESS TECHNOLOGIES each of the foregoing being incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The baseband processors are connected to at least one of the application processors enabling communication between each other. In typical implementation the application processor can only communicate with a limited command set in an effort to enhance security of the baseband processor thereby enhancing the security of communication between the baseband processor and a particular cellular network.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the application processor can communicate a preferred data traffic connection mode command directly to the baseband processor . In one implementation upon receiving the preferred data traffic connection mode command the baseband processor s can enable or disable the hybrid mode the hybrid mode being concurrent registration to both a CDMA 1 network for voice traffic and a LTE network for data traffic. The use of the preferred data traffic connection mode command to disable the hybrid mode will cause the appropriate baseband processor to terminate the voice traffic connection e.g. CDMA 1 while continuing to maintain the data connection to the LTE network. By terminating the voice traffic connection the baseband processor will no longer need to tune away from the network handling the data traffic to the network handling the voice traffic. Thus data sent by the data network e.g. LTE will not be lost if sent during the tune away period. The application processor upon a determination that the preferred data traffic connection mode is no longer required and or desired the application can instruct the baseband processor to reinstate hybrid mode operation.

In another implementation the baseband processor s can enable or disable an ARTD mode of one or more of the network interfaces maintaining a data connection e.g. LTE in response to the preferred data traffic connection mode command. By appropriately enabling the ARTD on the network interface with the packet switched connection the UE can monitor the receive quality on the packet switched connection in addition to a possible circuit switched connection in order to determine the network interface with the best transmit quality when making a determination on which network interface to be used for transmission.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of a network apparatus capable of facilitating prioritized network connections with mobile devices is illustrated. As used herein the term network apparatus includes but is not limited to network servers macrocells microcells femtocells picocells wireless access points or any combinations of the foregoing. While a specific device configuration and layout is shown and discussed it is recognized that many other configurations may be readily implemented by one of ordinary skill given the present disclosure the apparatus of being merely illustrative of the broader principles of the disclosure.

The processing subsystem includes one or more of central processing units CPU or digital processors such as a microprocessor digital signal processor field programmable gate array RISC core or plurality of processing components mounted on one or more substrates. The processing subsystem is coupled to non transitory computer readable storage media such as memory which may include for example SRAM FLASH SDRAM and or HDD Hard Disk Drive components. As used herein the term memory includes any type of integrated circuit or other storage device adapted for storing digital data including without limitation ROM. PROM EEPROM DRAM SDRAM DDR 2 SDRAM EDO FPMS RLDRAM SRAM flash memory e.g. NAND NOR and PSRAM. The processing subsystem may also include additional co processors. As shown the processing subsystem includes discrete components however it is understood that in some embodiments they may be consolidated or fashioned in a SoC system on chip configuration.

The apparatus further includes one or more wireless interfaces which are configured to receive send transmissions from to mobile devices including connection request responses . A plurality of wireline back end interfaces are also provided for communication with other network entities such as for example an Ethernet 10 100 1000 10 000 Mbps interface or optical interface. Other interfaces may be used for such back end communications including for instance IEEE Std. 1394 Thunderbolt Wi Fi WiMAX IEEE Std. 802.16 and so forth.

In one exemplary embodiment the non transitory computer readable storage media of the apparatus includes instructions which when executed by the processor sequence and prioritize one or more data packets transmit the data packets via a heterogeneous network according to the sequence and prioritization for each packet. The storage media further includes instructions which when executed by the processor receive a notification from the mobile device via the at least one wireless interface the notification comprising at least a desired prioritized network connection setting determine based at least in part on the desired prioritized network connection setting and based at least in part on the determination adjust one or more parameters relating to scheduled communication with the mobile device.

Accordingly in one variant of the disclosure the adjustment of one or more parameters comprises at least modifying an amount of scheduled maintenance operations with the UE between the network apparatus . Accordingly the network apparatus can schedule fewer time periods for that a UE will need to perform a tune away from another network connection e.g. LTE to perform maintenance operations on the network connection e.g. CDMA 1 with the network apparatus .

It will be recognized that while certain embodiments of the disclosure are described in terms of a specific sequence of steps of a method these descriptions are only illustrative of the broader methods described herein and may be modified as required by the particular application. Certain steps may be rendered unnecessary or optional under certain circumstances. Additionally certain steps or functionality may be added to the disclosed embodiments or the order of performance of two or more steps permuted. All such variations are considered to be encompassed within the present disclosure.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features of the principles encompassed herein it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the device or process illustrated may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the disclosure. The foregoing description is of the best mode presently contemplated. This description is in no way meant to be limiting but rather should be taken as illustrative of the general principles. The scope of the disclosure should be determined with reference to the claims.

