---

title: Nasal drug delivery device
abstract: A compound delivery device for delivering a plume derived from a propellant and a drug formulation. The drug formulation is in an intranasal dosage form in the form of powder, suspension, dispersion or liquid. The propelled intranasal dosage form is deposited within the olfactory region of the nasal cavity. The drug deposited within the olfactory region is delivered to the brain avoiding the blood-brain-barrier. Hydrofluoroalkane propellant from a pressurized canister is channeled to a diffuser and drug-containing chamber where the intra-nasal dosage form is aerosolized. The aerosolized intra-nasal dosage form passes through a nozzle thus delivering a plume to the olfactory region of a user's nasal cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09550036&OS=09550036&RS=09550036
owner: Impel NeuroPharma Inc.
number: 09550036
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130903
---
This application is a continuation of an international patent application PCT US12 27754 filed Mar. 5 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 61 449 008 filed Mar. 3 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 61 451 935 filed Mar. 11 2011 U.S. Ser. No. 61 484 025 filed May 9 2011 and U.S. Ser. No. 61 498 974 filed Jun. 20 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. government support pursuant to U.S. Army SBIR grant W81XWH 10 C 0238. The Government may have certain rights in this application.

The central nervous system CNS includes the brain the brain stem and the spinal cord. The CNS is isolated from the external world by several membranes that both cushion and protect the brain the brain stem and the spinal cord. For example the membranes that form the blood brain barrier BBB protect the brain from certain contents of the blood. The blood cerebrospinal fluid barrier BCSFB protects other portions of the CNS from many chemicals and microbes.

Traditional methods for delivering compounds to the CNS are typically invasive. For example a pump implanted in the skull such as an intracerebroventricular pump can deliver a variety of compounds to the brain. However implanting such a pump requires brain surgery which can entail a variety of serious complications. Certain compounds for example epidural painkillers can be injected directly through the protective membrane into the CNS. However such injection is impractical for most compounds.

Intranasal administration has traditionally focused on the distribution of drug solutions as a mist for topical delivery to the nasal epithelium. Because of the nasal cavity s easily accessed vascular bed nasal administration of medications has focused the delivery of medications either locally to the nasal cavity or directly to the blood stream.

Much of the current brain research is focused on the enhancement of the drug being delivered to the brain by various formulations. The traditional approaches to improve uptake of compounds to the brain by formulation enhancement include 1 mucoadhesive formulations 2 penetration enhancers 3 liposomes 4 vasoconstrictors and 5 nanoparticles. Examples of various compounds with have enhanced formulations include various cytokines for example tumor necrosis factors interleukins and interferons discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 991 785 and growth and differentiation factor 5 GDF 5 and related proteins discussed in US Publication No. 20100074959.

Targeting of drugs to the central nervous system CNS is a challenging task. A great number of drugs including biotechnology products are candidates for treatment of CNS diseases but drug delivery is a problem for brain targeting. A limitation in the treatment of brain tumors is that less than 1 of most therapeutic agents administered systemically are able to cross the BBB. The transport of small molecules across the BBB is the exception rather than the rule and 98 of all small molecules do not cross the BBB Pardride NeuroRx. 2005 January 2 1 1 2. 2005 approximately 100 of large molecule drugs or genes do not cross the BBB Pardride NeuroRx. 2005 January 2 1 1 2. 2005 . The BBB allows small about less than 500 Da lipophilic molecules from the bloodstream to enter the CNS Pardridge Arch Neurol. 2002 59 35 40 . Many larger therapeutic agents are prevented from reaching the brain for treating CNS disorders such as but not limited to Parkinson s disease Alzheimer s disease depression stroke and epilepsy Pardridge NeuroRx. 2005 January 2 1 3 14 . Disorders including autism lysosomal storage disorders fragile X syndrome ataxis and blindness are serious disorders where there is little effective treatment. In many of these cases the gene underlying the disease is known but BBB delivery is the rate limiting problem in gene therapy or enzyme replacement therapy and no therapeutics have been developed. Drug delivery of therapeutic compounds for example proteins faces several challenges because of their instability high enzymatic metabolism low gastrointestinal absorption rapid renal elimination and potential immunogenicity.

There is a need for devices that can deliver compounds to the upper nasal cavity for direct nose to brain delivery. Certain existing nasal drug delivery devices do not adequately propel the drug from the device. Inconsistent propulsion of drug due to inconsistent user actuation is also far from optimal. Still further the plume generated by such existing devices is too wide. Even further some drug products do not readily mix and or stay suspended with propellants in a MDI type device. Certain existing nasal drug devices rely on circumferential velocity to propel medicaments to the olfactory epithelium. Traditional circumferential devices result in a lower percentage of compound deposited on the olfactory epithelium. A circumferential component in the aerosol plume tends to result in a wider spray plume with a portion of the aerosol particles targeted to the sides of the nasal cavity in the lower part of the nasal cavity.

Better mechanisms for administering desired agents to the brain brain stem and or spinal cord are needed.

A device for delivering a compound to the olfactory region of the nasal cavity is described including a canister capable of containing a propellant a diffuser in communication with the canister a compound chamber in communication with the diffuser and a nozzle in communication with the compound chamber wherein the device is capable of delivering the compound to the olfactory region of the nasal cavity.

In another aspect the pressurized liquid HFA is released from the canister and comes into contact with the diffuser whereby the diffuser converts the pressurized liquid HFA to gaseous HFA.

In yet another aspect the he device delivers greater than 64.2 of the compound to the olfactory region.

In yet another aspect the device includes a canister where the canister is a syringe syrette or barrel.

In one aspect the drug is in the form of a liquid suspension a liquid dispersion a powder or an aqueous solution.

In yet another aspect the aiming guide aides in positioning of the nozzle of the device at the user s olfactory region.

In yet another aspect the devices further includes an insertion port in communication with the compound chamber.

In yet another aspect the device further includes an indicator provided to alert the user to the length or amount of a capsule s insertion into the user s nasal cavity.

In yet another aspect the diffuser is a disk shaped member including conical shaped members having distal apertures.

In another embodiment a device for delivering a compound is described including a canister capable of containing a propellant a diffuser in communication with the canister a compound chamber in communication with the diffuser and a nozzle in communication with the compound chamber where the device is capable of delivering the compound to ear skin buccal cavity or eyes.

In another embodiment a method is described for delivering drug to the olfactory region of the nasal cavity including providing a canister capable of containing a propellant a diffuser in communication with the canister a compound chamber in communication with the diffuser and a nozzle in communication with the compound chamber where when actuated the device is capable of delivering the compound to the olfactory region of the nasal cavity.

In one aspect the method includes the delivery of a drug for the treatment of an infectious disease oncology or immunological disease.

In one aspect the method includes actuating the device to deliver propellant from the canister whereby the diffuser diffuses the liquid propellant from the canister to a gaseous propellant the gaseous propellant contacts the compound in the compound chamber and the compound and gaseous propellant exits the nozzle of the device.

In another aspect of the method the diffuser converts a minority of the pressurized liquid HFA to gaseous HFA.

In another aspect of the method the diffuser converts a majority of the pressurized liquid HFA to gaseous HFA.

In yet another aspect of the method at least 64.2 of the compound is delivered to the olfactory region.

In yet another aspect of the method greater than 64.2 of the compound is delivered to the olfactory region.

In yet another aspect of the method the drug is in the form of a liquid suspension a liquid dispersion a powder liposome or an aqueous solution and combinations thereof.

In yet another aspect of the method the aiming guide assists in the positioning of the nozzle of the device at the user s olfactory region.

In another aspect of the method the device includes an insertion port in communication with the compound chamber.

In an aspect of the method the device includes an indicator provided to alert the user to the depth of insertion of the device into the user s nasal cavity.

In another aspect of the method the diffuser is a disk shaped member including conical shaped members having distal apertures.

In another embodiment an intranasal formulation of an oxime for use in treating exposure to an organophosphate is described.

In yet another embodiment a method is described for delivering an oxime across the blood brain barrier to a subject in need thereof including administering to the subject a therapeutically effective dosage of an oxime wherein the dosage is delivered to the upper olfactory region of the nasal cavity.

In one aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.001 mg kg to about 100 mg kg.

In another aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 10 mg kg.

In yet another aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.1 mg kg to about 1 mg kg.

In yet another aspect the method described for delivering an oxime is for treatment of organophosphate exposure.

In another embodiment a method of delivering an oxime intranasally to a user is described including providing a nasal dosage form of the oxime propelling the nasal dosage form with a propellant and delivering the nasal dosage form to the nasal cavity of the user so that the oxime is delivered to the nasal cavity and subsequently to the central nervous system and or brain of the user.

In another aspect the nasal dosage form of the oxime is a powder an aqueous solution a suspension or a lipid containing product and combinations thereof.

In another aspect the user has been exposed to an organophosphate drug including sarin tabun soman Russian VX or diisopropylfluorophosphate and combinations thereof.

In another aspect a nasal dosage form of a muscarinic receptor agonist or a muscarinic receptor antagonist is delivered intranasally.

In yet another aspect a nasal dosage form of atropine or scopolamine or combinations thereof is provided intranasaly.

In yet another aspect the benzodiazepine antagonist includes diazepam midazolam or lorazepam or combinations thereof.

In yet another aspect the nasal dosage form is a benzodiazepine antagonist a muscarinic receptor agonist or a muscarinic receptor antagonist or combinations thereof.

In yet another aspect the intranasal dosage form includes diazepam midazolam lorazepam atropine or scopolamine or combinations thereof.

In yet another aspect the nasal dosage form is delivered to the nasal cavity of the user exposed to an organophosphate.

In another aspect the nasal dosage form is delivered to the nasal cavity of the user before the exposure to an organophosphate.

In yet another aspect the nasal dosage form is delivered to the nasal cavity of the user after the exposure to an organophosphate.

In yet another aspect exposure to the oxime increases oxime exposure to the CNS. In yet further aspects at least 53 of the oxime is directly transported DTP to the brain.

The invention will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description of various embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. The discussion below is descriptive illustrative and exemplary and is not to be taken as limiting the scope defined by any appended claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art pertinent to the methods and compositions described. As used herein the following terms and phrases have the meanings ascribed to them unless specified otherwise 

A diagnostic agent refers to and encompasses an atom molecule or compound that is useful in diagnosing a disease. Diagnostic agents include but are not limited to radioisotopes dyes contrast agents fluorescent compounds or molecules and enhancing agents e.g. paramagnetic ions . A non radioactive diagnostic agent is a contrast agent suitable for magnetic resonance imaging computed tomography or ultrasound. The diagnostic agent can be used to perform positron emission tomography PET MRI X ray CT ultrasound operative intravascular laparoscopic or endoscopic procedure.

A diffuser refers to and encompasses a device for dispersing or deflecting a compound in various directions.

An imaging agent refers to and encompasses an atom molecule or compound that is useful in detecting physical changes or produces images of internal body tissues. In some aspects the imaging agent may be a diagnostic agent.

A propellant shall refer to and encompass a compound that acts as a vehicle for creating propulsion or thrust.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to and encompasses an amount of a drug effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In one aspect the therapeutically effective amount refers to a target CNS concentration that has been shown to be effective in for example slowing disease progression. Efficacy can be measured in conventional ways depending on the condition to be treated.

The term treatment and treat and the like refers to and encompasses therapeutic or suppressive measures for a disease or disorder leading to any clinically desirable or beneficial effect including but not limited to alleviation or relief of one or more symptoms regression slowing or cessation of progression of the disease or disorder. Treatment can be evidenced as a decrease in the severity of a symptom the number of symptoms or frequency of relapse.

A user or subject shall refer to and encompass a human or other animal. For example the animal may be a primate or a non primate and may include a rabbit bovine equine pig rat mouse dog or cat.

The device may be used in treatment prevention palliative care for humans and veterinary purposes. The device may be used in research and industrial uses. For example the device may be used to deposit compound in agricultural settings.

When trade names are used herein applicants intend to independently include the trade name product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product.

For clarity of disclosure and not by way of limitation the detailed description of the invention is divided into the subsections which follow.

Intranasal administration of compounds offers several advantages over traditional surgical intravenous or oral routes for administration across the blood brain barrier BBB . Intranasal administration to the olfactory region avoids gastrointestinal destruction and hepatic first pass metabolism such as destruction of drugs by liver enzymes allowing more drug to be cost effectively rapidly and predictably bioavailable than if it were administered orally. Intranasal administration provides ease convenience and safety. Intranasal drug administration is generally painless taking into consideration that pain may be a subjective measurement which varies by patient and does not require sterile technique intravenous catheters or other invasive devices and is generally immediately and readily available for all patients. Intranasal administration can rapidly achieve therapeutic brain and spinal cord drug concentrations.

Nasally administered compounds contact the upper olfactory region and molecular transport occurs directly across this tissue and into compartments of the central nervous system. Henry R. J. et al. Pediatr Dent 1998. 20 5 p. 321 6 Sakane T. et al. J Pharm Pharmacol 1991. 43 6 p. 449 51 Banks W. A. et al. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2004. 309 2 p. 469 75 Westin et al. Pharm Res 2006. 23 3 p. 565 72 . The olfactory mucosa is located in the upper nasal cavity just below the cribriform plate of the skull. It contains olfactory cells which traverse the cribriform plate and extend up into the cranial cavity. When compounds come in contact with this specialized mucosa they are rapidly transported directly into the brain they bypass the BBB and are rapidly transported directly into the central nervous system often faster than if the compound is given intravenously.

The olfactory mucosa includes the olfactory epithelium. The olfactory epithelium is located at the top of the nose between the superior turbinate and the roof of the nasal cavity just beneath the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. In humans it covers about 10 to about 20 cm2 or about 8 of the total nasal surface area and is composed of four main cell types epithelial cells olfactory receptor neurons supporting cells and basal cells. Mathison S. et al. 1998 Journal of Drug Targeting 5 415 441 . Although 3 of the nasal cavity is occupied by olfactory epithelium Morrison and Costanzo 1990 this route is direct since the olfactory neurons do not have a synapse between the receptive element and the afferent path Ding and Dahl 2003 . The olfactory epithelium is more than twice the depth of the respiratory epithelium with the olfactory nerve cell bodies typically located in the middle and deeper regions of the epithelium while nuclei of the supporting cells are organized in a single layer closer to the mucosal surface. Tight junctions exist between the supporting cells and between the supporting cells and olfactory nerve cells. Morrison E. E et al. 1992 Journal of Comparative Neurology 297 1 1 13.

When a nasal drug formulation is delivered deep and high enough into the nasal cavity the olfactory mucosa is reached and drug transport into the brain and or CSF via the olfactory receptor neurons occurs. The transfer of compounds from the nose to the brain is referred to as the nose brain pathway. The nose brain pathway has implications when centrally acting medications such as but not limited to sedatives anti seizure drugs and opiates are delivered nasally. The present device allows for delivery via the nose brain pathway allowing for nearly immediate delivery of nasal medications to the central nervous system and brain by passing the blood brain barrier.

The current challenge in nose to brain drug delivery is also due to the complex architecture of the nose which is naturally designed to channel drugs into the lower nasal airway toward the lungs making it difficult for drugs to reach the olfactory region. Most of the drug dispensed from traditional nasal devices such as sprayers or pumps is subjected to the natural air movement in the nasal cavity towards the esophagus. The majority of the spray dispensed from traditional devices encounters the natural downward airflow displacement within the nasal cavity. The remaining fraction from traditional devices is found in the respiratory epithelium and cleared by the mucocilliary clearance mechanism or absorbed into the blood stream. While nasal catheter instillation and nose drops are less impacted by this natural downward air movement it requires subjects to be in a supine position is often associated with user discomfort and is not optimal for frequent clinical administration.

Moreover a reservoir of residual air exists at the top of the nasal cavity that is not removed during normal respiration thus remaining in the olfactory region and acting as a barrier to deposition. This residual air must be displaced in order to deliver aerosolized drug to the olfactory epithelium in the upper nasal cavity in a consistent manner. The device described herein delivers a majority of the aerosolized drug to the upper part of the nasal cavity to increase exposure of the drug at the olfactory epithelium a site of nose to brain pathway by both avoiding the natural downward air movement and displacing the residual air of the upper nasal cavity.

The device herein advantageously and consistently deposits a large fraction of dose into the more distal parts of the nasal cavity such as the olfactory region. A drug product also referred to herein as drug formulation or nasal dosage form is propelled from the device with a velocity into the nasal cavity.

The container is in communication with a diffuser . For example when the diffuser is in communication with the container communication shall refer to and encompass congruousness or fluid communication. The propellant from the container is diffused via the diffuser . In one aspect a majority of the propellant is diffused via the diffuser . In another aspect a minority of the propellant is diffused via the diffuser . Majority refers to and encompasses at least 50 percent. Minority refers to and encompasses less than 50 percent. In another aspect at least about 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 or about 100 inclusive of endpoints of the propellant is diffused via the diffuser . The diffuser is in communication with the compound chamber . The compound chamber is capable of holding a compound such as but not limited to a drug or and a diagnostic agent. In one aspect the diagnostic agent is an imaging agent. In an example the imaging agent is fluorodeoxyglucose FDG or fluorothymidine FLT . In another aspect the compound is a drug. In another aspect the compound is not an imaging agent. In one aspect the compound is a liquid. In another aspect the compound is a powder. In yet another aspect the compound is an intranasal formulation of a drug in a liquid or powdered state. The intranasal formulation may contain suitable intranasal carriers and excipients known in the art.

The propellant in the container acts as a vehicle to deliver propulsion or thrust to expel from the compound chamber the compound. The compound chamber is in communication with a nozzle . The propulsion or thrust from the propellant is capable of expelling the compound from the compound chamber and nozzle when in communication with the compound chamber .

In one aspect when the MDI device is actuated a discrete amount of pressurized HFA fluid is released. The MDI may contain between about 30 to about 300 actuations inclusive of endpoints of HFA propellant. The amount of fluid propellant released upon actuation may be between about 20 and about 200 inclusive of endpoints of liquid propellant.

Propellant exiting the container comes into contact with the diffuser . The diffuser is capable of converting liquid propellant exiting the container into gaseous propellant. In one aspect the diffuser is capable of converting all or a majority of the liquid propellant into gaseous propellant. In another aspect the diffuser is capable of converting a minority of the liquid propellant into gaseous propellant. Majority refers to and encompasses at least 50 percent.

Minority refers to and encompasses less than 50 percent. In another aspect at least about 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 A or about 100 inclusive of endpoints of the liquid propellant is converted into gaseous propellant. Following contact with the diffuser the diffused propellant comes into contact with the compound in the compound chamber . The diffused propellant and the compound come into contact with each other as the propellant propels the compound in the compound chamber . The nozzle is in fluid communication with the compound chamber . The compound is propelled by the diffused propellant into communication with the nozzle . The propellant propels the compound to be expelled via the distal end of the nozzle . Exiting from the nozzle is compound propellant or a combination thereof.

In some aspects the diffuser functions to convert propellant from a liquid to a gas. In other aspects the diffuser functions to prevent the compound contained in the compound chamber from coming in contact with the container . In another aspect the diffuser acts as a one way check valve. In other aspects the diffuser functions to convert propellant from a liquid to a gas and to prevent the compound contained in the compound chamber from coming into contact with the container . In yet another aspect the diffuser functions to increase the temperature of the propellant.

An example of a diffuser includes a frit a plurality of frits or a diffuser member or combinations thereof. In one aspect the diffuser is a frit. In another aspect the diffuser is a plurality of frits. In another aspect the diffuser is a diffuser member.

In one aspect the frit s are of any suitable size and shape and are formed using any suitable porous material of any suitable density. In one aspect the frit is made of a hydrophobic material. In one aspect the frit is made of an inert material to avoid chemically reacting with any of the compounds. The inert material may be metal or non metal. In one aspect the frit is composed of metal. In another aspect the frit is composed of a non metal. In one aspect the inert material is sintered nickel. As one example a frit formed using a porous stainless steel having a pore size in the range of approximately 1 micron to approximately 100 microns can be used. In another aspect the pore sizes is in the range of about 1 to about 10 about 10 to about 20 about 20 to about 30 about 30 to about 40 about 40 to about 50 about 50 to about 60 about 60 to about 70 about 70 to about 80 about 80 to about 90 about 90 to about 100 microns inclusive of endpoints. In another aspect the frit can be formed using aluminum foam. The number and size of the pores and the overall dimensions e.g. diameter and thickness of the frit are set to maximize surface area for vaporization while limiting pressure drops accompanying passage of vaporized propellant through the frit. In certain aspects the frit may be constructed of Teflon glass metal mesh screen porous metal polyether ether ketone or another plastic material. In one aspect the passage of liquid propellant through the increased surface area of the frit transitions the liquid to gas and increases the temperature of the resulting gas. In another aspect the passage of gas propellant through the increased surface area of the frit increases the temperature of the gas.

As shown in in one aspect the diffuser is disposed on the connection channel . In another aspect the diffuser is disposed within a drug chamber whereby an intranasal dosage form is disposed in the drug chamber . A nozzle is in communication with the drug chamber . The diffuser drug chamber and nozzle are housed by a drug capsule adjacent the actuator body .

The drug capsule body may be of any suitable material to house the components. In one aspect the drug capsule body may be constructed from plastic. In one aspect the drug capsule body may taper at the distal end to allow the nozzle to be brought closer to the septum. The taper functions to improve the positioning of the device at a suitable horizontal angle relative to the upper nasal cavity.

Shown in is another embodiment of the device. The actuator body or housing houses the propellant canister having a neck and a metering valve assembly . A valve stem is disposed within a connection channel . The propellant exiting the valve stem is in a liquid form or a mixture of liquid and gaseous form. A diffuser is disposed on the channel and is adapted to convert a majority or all of the liquid propellant into gaseous propellant. The diffuser is disposed within a drug chamber whereby the intranasal dosage form is disposed in the drug chamber . A nozzle is in communication with the drug chamber . The diffuser drug chamber and nozzle are disposed within a drug capsule adjacent the actuator body .

An insertion port is provided for the insertion of a compound into the drug chamber . The insertion port may be constructed from silicone or plastic. In one aspect the needle of a syringe may be inserted through the insertion port so as to inject the compound into the drug chamber . In one aspect the compound is a drug. In another aspect the compound is a diagnostic agent. In yet another aspect the compound is not an imaging agent. The drug may be a liquid or a powder.

Shown in is another embodiment of the device. A housing body houses a pressurized propellant container a connection channel a release valve assembly a diffuser a drug chamber and a nozzle . The pressurized propellant container contains a liquid propellant and has a release valve assembly . A connection channel is congruous with the release valve assembly of the container and a diffuser . The diffuser is in communication with a drug chamber . In one aspect the drug chamber contains a drug containing intranasal dosage form. A nozzle is in communication with the drug chamber .

Shown in is another embodiment of the device. An actuator body houses a propellant container having a neck a metering valve assembly and valve stem . A valve stem is disposed within a connection channel . The propellant exiting the valve stem is in a liquid form gaseous form or a mixture of liquid and gaseous form. A diffuser is disposed on the channel and is adapted to convert the liquid propellant into gaseous propellant. The diffuser is in communication within a drug chamber . In one aspect the drug chamber contains an intranasal dosage form. A nozzle is in communication with the drug chamber . The diffuser drug chamber and nozzle are disposed within a drug capsule adjacent to the actuator body . The actuator body is shaped allowing or accommodating for an aiming guide. The aiming guide includes one a plurality or all of the nose aiming guide the septum aiming guide an upper lip aiming guide and a visual indicator .

In one aspect a nose aiming guide is provided on the actuator body . The nose aiming guide functions to accommodate the user s nose. In another aspect the nose aiming guide functions to aim the nozzle at the user s olfactory region.

In another aspect a septum aiming guide is provided on the actuator body . In one aspect the septum aiming guide functions to accommodate contacting the user s septum.

In yet another aspect an upper lip aiming guide is provided on the actuator body . The upper lip aiming guide functions to accommodate contacting the user s upper lip. In one aspect a visual indicator is provided to alert the user to the length or amount of the capsule s insertion into the user s nasal cavity. In one aspect the visual indicator is inserted to a specified amount or length into the user s nasal cavity.

Shown in is another embodiment of the device. A housing body houses a pressurized propellant container a release valve assembly and a connection channel . The pressurized propellant container contains the liquid propellant and has a release valve assembly. A connection channel is in communication with the release valve assembly and a diffuser . The diffuser is in communication with the drug chamber . In one aspect the drug chamber contains an intranasal dosage. A nozzle is in communication with the drug chamber .

In one aspect a guide function is provided. The guide function includes a guide post . The guide post is adjacent to a guide post arm . The guide post arm is integral to a rotation arm . The rotation arm may be affixed or rotatably connected to the housing body so as to accommodate right or left handed users. The guide post guides aiming of the nozzle within the user s nasal cavity by entering the opposing naris of the user and by limiting the angle of administration. In one aspect the guide post arm and rotation arm is constructed of plastic. In yet another aspect the guide post arm and rotation arm is constructed of structural foam.

Shown in is another embodiment of the device. A housing body is provided to assist in placement and to house the various component structures shown. A pressurized propellant container contains propellant and has a release valve assembly. A connection channel is disposed between the release valve assembly and a diffuser . The diffuser is disposed within a drug chamber whereby the drug containing intranasal dosage form is disposed within the chamber . A nozzle is disposed on the chamber .

Shown in is a nasal guide which could be added to the drug chamber . The guide would not obstruct the nozzle or the nozzle orifices and would serve to limit the placement insertion of the device within the nasal cavity to the desired angle of administration.

The diffuser is porous. The pores may be homogenous in size and shape. In another aspect the pores of the diffuser are heterogeneous in size and shape. In yet a further aspect the diffuser is homogenously porous. In yet a further aspect the diffuser is heterogeneously porous. As shown in the diffuser is cylindrical in shape and is homogenously porous whereby the gas may pass through the pores but the pores are impervious to the drug product . The gaseous propellant then contacts a drug product propelling the drug product through a nozzle and out of the device.

The diffusion tube allows for respiration to occur concurrent with use of the device. As a user uses the device the diffusion tube allows for inhalation by the user to bypass inhalation of the drug product contained in the drug chamber . Further the diffusion tube allows for propellant to aerosolize the drug product as it comes into contact with the drug product in the drug chamber . The drug product exits the device aerosolized. In another aspect absent the diffusion tube the drug product exits the nozzle as a liquid or partial aerosol or a combination. In one aspect a frit or a plurality of frits not shown is in communication with the diffusion tube and or diffusion member so as to act as a check valve.

The diffusion tube allows for respiration to occur concurrent with use of the device. As a user uses the device the diffusion tube allows for inhalation by the user to bypass inhalation of the drug product contained in the drug chamber . Further the diffusion tube allows for propellant to aerosolize the drug product as it comes into contact with the drug product in the drug chamber . The drug product exits the device aerosolized. In another aspect absent the diffusion tube the drug product exits the nozzle as a liquid or partial aerosol or a combination. In one aspect a frit or a plurality of frits not shown is in communication with the diffusion tube so as to act as a check valve.

The device may be for pediatric or adult use. One of skill in the art can envision modifications of the device to accommodate for pediatric or adult use.

In another embodiment the device delivers a compound through the mucosa or epithelium of the tongue mouth skin or conjunctiva. In another embodiment the method includes administering a composition of the compound on or to the tongue on or to the skin or on or to the conjunctiva of the subject.

In yet another embodiment the device delivers the compound to the turbinate regions of the nasal cavity. In one aspect the device delivers the compound primarily to the turbinate regions of the nasal cavity.

In additional embodiments the device may be used for treatment prevention or palliative care. The device may be used in research or industrial purposes. The device can be used to disperse a compound which has been propelled by a propellant having been in communication with a diffuser. For example the device may be used in agriculture to dispense an agricultural compound.

An intranasal formulation of an oxime is provided. Additionally a method of intranasal administration of an oxime to the olfactory region is described.

Oximes can be delivered to the central nervous system CNS for the prevention treatment and palliative care of exposure to organophosphate OP compounds such as chemical warfare nerve agents e.g. sarin tabun soman Russian VX etc. or pesticides e.g. diisopropylfluorophosphate . Oximes had traditionally been delivered for example intravenously. Intranasal administration of an oxime to the olfactory region allows for transport across the BBB.

Nerve agents containing organophosphorous compounds are a significant threat to the warfighter who may be exposed in battlefield settings on land sea air and space. Civilian populations also face health risks associated with nerve agents during the use of commercially available pesticides as do first responders to a terrorist attack. The current treatment regimen for nerve agent exposure includes the use of a cholinergic reactivator pralidoxime 2 PAM muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine and an anticonvulsant diazepam . While 2 PAM and atropine are available in multiple injection formats e.g. IV infusion or IM autoinjector injection presents significant and practical challenges in the battlefields such as the need to remove body armor and have correct training in the use of autoinjectors. Moreover newer oximes such as MMB4 and HI6 are difficult to formulate in current autoinjector formats. There is great need to develop practical more effective and rapid onset systems capable of distributing anti nerve gas agents such as oximes capable of penetrating into the central nervous system CNS of subjects in battlefield and emergency situations.

The method for delivering an oxime across the blood brain barrier to a subject in need thereof includes administering to the subject a therapeutically effective dosage of an oxime where the dosage is delivered to the upper olfactory region of the nasal cavity.

In one aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.001 mg kg to about 100 mg kg.

In another aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 10 mg kg.

In yet another aspect of the method the therapeutically effective amount of an oxime administered to the user is within the range of about 0.1 mg kg to about 1 mg kg. In one aspect the mg kg is mg of compound per kilogram of body weight. In another aspect the dosage is a flat dosage independent of weight.

In performance of the method of delivery of an oxime intranasaly to the olfactory region includes providing the device described herein for insertion into the user s nasal cavity. The device is inserted into the user s nasal cavity. At least one therapeutically effective dose of an oxime is delivered via the device. At least one therapeutically effective dose of the oxime is delivered to the olfactory region. Delivery of the oxime to the olfactory region allows for delivery of the oxime across the BBB.

Oximes such as but not limited to 2 PAM 2 pyridine aldoxime methyl chloride MMB4 HI6 TMB4 Hlo7 are currently used to treat OP exposure but they poorly penetrate the blood brain barrier. Thus the oximes in their current form of administration do little to treat or prevent the CNS damage caused by these compounds.

By using the using the device described herein for the method the compound such as the oxime can be self administered or administered by a battle buddy or civilian with or a user without prior medical training. The device delivers compound without requiring a specific breathing pattern by the user and can be administered to an unconscious user.

Direct transport percentage DTP to the brain was calculated using an oxime to determine the amount of drug in the brain that was distributed directly from the nasal cavity to the CNS. In one embodiment the DTP was 62.6 9.6 . In one aspect the DTP was greater than 64.2 . In another aspect the DTP was at least 64.3 . In another aspect the DTP was at least 53 . In another aspect the DTP was greater than 53 . In another aspect the DTP was greater than 55 . In another aspect the DTP was at least about 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 or 100 inclusive of endpoints. In another aspect the DTP was at least about 40 45 505 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 or 100 inclusive of endpoints.

The device deposits a compound on the olfactory region. In one embodiment the percent deposition of the compound is at least 64.2 . In one aspect the percent deposition of the compound was greater than 64.2 . In another aspect the percent deposition of the compound was at least 64.3 . In another aspect the percent deposition of the compound was greater than 50 . In another aspect the percent deposition of the compound was greater than 55 . In another aspect the percent deposition of the compound was at least about 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 or 100 inclusive of endpoints. In another aspect the percent deposition of the compound was at least about 40 45 505 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 or 100 inclusive of endpoints.

Compounds which can be delivered by the device described include but are not limited to those for the palliative prevention or treatment of infectious diseases inflammatory diseases and oncology. Compounds which can be delivered by the device include but are not limited to those for the palliative prevention or treatment of Parkinson s disease Alzheimer s disease depression stroke epilepsy autism lysosomal storage disorders fragile X syndrome ataxis insulin deficiency and blindness. Compounds which can be delivered include but are not limited to deferoxamine DFO glucagon like peptide 1 antagonist cephalexin midazolam morphine insulin like growth factor 1 nerve growth factor insulin oximes imaging agents including but not limited to FDL and FLT GDP 5 and cytokines including but not limited to interleukins i.e. IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 and IL 10 interferons and tumor necrosis factor i.e. TNF and TNF .

The invention is further described in the following examples which are in not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

An oxime drug 2 PAM was administered into the olfactory nasal region in rats with the device e.g. a Pressurized Olfactory Delivery POD device . The brain and plasma concentrations of 2 PAM was measured at certain time points after drug administration. The device enabled delivery of 2 PAM resulted in higher brain exposure and lower plasma exposure compared to intravenous injection.

Animal use. Rats were used for deposition tolerability and distribution experiments. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats 200 300 g Harlan Indianapolis Ind. were housed under a 12 hour light dark cycle with food and water provided ad libitum. Animals were cared for in accordance with institutional guidelines and all experiments were performed with an approved protocol from the Pacific Northwest Diabetes Institute Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee under protocol number 12610.

Statistical analysis. In most cases where two values were compared a t test was used. When more than two groups were compared such as comparing the powder 2 PAM POD formulation with the aqueous 2 PAM POD formulation and the IV 2 PAM a two way ANOVA was used with a bonferroni post test. When comparing the AUC plasma and brain values which were derived from different animals at each time point the method described in Westin et al. 2006 was used. In all cases statistical significance was defined as p

Aqueous formulations of 2 PAM were made by dissolving 2 PAM in deionized water. 2 PAM was dissolved into 500 l of water at 10 mg ml 100 mg ml 250 mg ml and 500 mg ml and left in a closed microcentrifuge tube at ambient temperature 25 . These water based formulations were then visually observed at 1 hour 24 hours and 48 hours for any cloudiness or precipitant.

Dry powder formulation of 2 PAM was prepared by placing the 2 PAM free drug in a microcentrifuge tube and grinding the drug with a motorized pestle Kontes Vineland N.J. . The 2 PAM powder was then observed under a microscope to ensure the homogeneity of the powder formulation. The 2 PAM was ground with a pestle to ensure that there were no agglomerations of 2 PAM greater than 100 m in diameter. Such larger agglomerates could clog the 810 m diameter POD nozzle used in the rat experiments.

The construction of the rat use POD nasal aerosol device is illustrated in . A meter dose inhaler MDI can dispensing 25 l hydrofluoroalkane is attached to the plastic actuator . The actuator is in gas communication with a polytetrafluoroethylene frit which had a 50 m pore size. The frit is in communication with the dose holding cylinder which is placed inside the body of the POD in order to create an aerosolized flow. On actuation the HFA propellant is converted to a gas by passing through the frit material and then it mixes with the dose and the dose and propellant mixture exits from the 23 gauge stainless steel tubing nozzle which is covered with a fluorinated ethylene propylene liner that was placed over the outside of the metal tip in order to protect the nasal epithelia from being damaged by the nozzle during use. The construction of the rat use POD device was successful and consistently delivered powder 2 PAM formulations with no measurable residual drug left in the device.

The basic operation of either POD device in rats was as follows. The animal was anesthetized with 5 isoflurane for 2 minutes to enable consistent administration. The rat was removed from the isoflurane chamber and placed in a supine position. The dose was loaded into the device and the nozzle was carefully placed 8.0 mm into the rat nasal cavity and pointed in the direction of the cribriform plate. Then the MDI can was pressed to discharge the dose into the rat nasal cavity. In addition the dry powder dose chamber was weighed on a scale with a sensitivity of 0.1 mg Mettler Toledo Columbus Ohio before loading the dose after the dose was placed in the dose loading chamber and after firing to ensure that the correct dose was loaded into the device and that the complete dose was released into the rat nasal cavity.

The 2 PAM formulations were made with 0.1 coomassie blue dye in order to test nasal cavity deposition in rats. The animals were dosed using the dry power POD device as described above with a single dose of 2.5 mg dose of 2 PAM with coomassie blue. Shortly after administration was complete 

A sensitive LC MS method was established in order to determine the distribution of POD administered 2 PAM in both the plasma and the brain of rats. A fixed volume 20 l of 2Chlorolmethylpyridinium iodide d6 Cerilliant Palo Alto Calif. was added into each tissue and plasma sample to act as an internal standard. Tissue samples were homogenized in 3 mls of water. 60 l of acetonitrile was added to the samples to cause protein precipitation. The samples were centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1000 g. An Agilent HPLC MS series 1100 series B with autosampler Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. was used for quantification. The injection volume was 5 l. The morphine samples were passed over a Phenomenex Synergi 4u PolarRP 80A Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. with a flow rate of 0.3 ml min.

A standard curve was created on the day of analysis according to the same process described for the samples. Each standard curve was linear with a coefficient of linear regression R2 0.99. In addition two quality control samples with a known amount of drug were processed on the day of analysis in order to ensure day to day consistency of the analytical assay.

This LC MS method was successful and resulted in reproducible quantification of both tissue and brain samples. The 2 PAM detectable peaks were much higher than background in most cases. The sensitivity of this detection method was 0.05 g ml in plasma and 1.0 ng in brain tissue. This method could be used in future studies with primates or in clinical studies.

 In the tissue distribution experiments the animals were anesthetized with 5 isoflurane for two minutes. Then the animals were removed from the isoflurane induction box and placed in a supine position. The animals were then dosed with either the POD device 2.5 mg in a single 10 l dose or via intravenous injection 2.5 mg in 500 l . Animals that were sacrificed 5 minutes after dosing remained under 2 isoflurane anesthesia until they were sacrificed. The animals sacrificed at the remaining time points were allowed to wake up from isoflurane anesthesia and placed back into housing. At 3 minutes before the sacrifice time the animals were again exposed to 5 isoflurane and then quickly overdosed with Beuthanasia D Schering Plough Animal Health Corp North Chicago Ill. . Using IV 2 PAM and the aqueous POD formulation of 2 PAM animals were sacrificed at 5 15 30 60 and 120 minutes N 6 . Animals dosed with the dry powder 2 PAM POD formulation were sacrificed at 5 and 15 minutes N 6 .

Immediately after death the animal was decapitated. Blood was collected from the trunk and placed in a microcentrifuge tube with 10 l of 40 mM EDTA. The plasma was separated from the blood by centrifuging at 6 000 g for 10 minutes. Then the plasma was frozen until it was analyzed for 2 PAM concentration with the LC MS method previously described. The base of the skull and the parietal bones were quickly removed from the head. The brain was removed within 2 minutes of sacrifice. The brain was placed in a microcentrifuge tube and frozen until it was analyzed for 2 PAM concentration with LC MS.

A direct transport percentage DTP to the brain was calculated in order to determine the amount of drug in the brain that was distributed directly from the nasal cavity to the CNS. The DTP is used to estimate the amount of drug in the brain that cannot be accounted for by systemic distribution. The DTP as defined was calculated as follows 

Administration of the aqueous formulation of 2 PAM with POD resulted in lower systemic exposure and greater CNS exposure compared to an equivalent IV dose. The IV dose resulted in a typical plasma curve with the highest point at 5 minutes . The POD administered 2 PAM resulted in plasma concentrations that were lower than the IV values which is not expected given 2 PAM s limited absorption across the nasal respiratory epithelium into the blood stream. The total plasma AUC was significantly lower after POD administration compared to IV

In contrast to the plasma values the brain concentrations of 2 PAM after POD administration were significantly higher than after IV administration at both 5 and 120 minutes . In addition the total brain concentration AUC was significantly greater after POD administration compared to IV. Of interest for the application of 2 PAM as a nerve gas exposure treatment is the fact that at 5 minutes after administration POD 2 PAM resulted in 3.5 the brain concentration compared to IV administration.

The brain to plasma ratios were significantly higher after POD 2 PAM compared to IV at every time point except for 30 minutes Table 1 . These increased ratios point to the fact that a portion of the drug was directly delivered to the brain from the nasal cavity effectively bypassing the blood brain barrier. When the direct transport percentage DTP was calculated it was found to be 80.9 . This DTP can primarily be accounted for by the large brain values found 5 minutes after POD 2 PAM administration. Table 2 shows brain to plasma concentration ratios. At each time point except for 30 minutes POD administration resulted in significantly greater brain to plasma ratios with a 15.25 fold increased brain to plasma ration after 5 minutes.

The powder formulation of 2 PAM administered via the POD device led to even greater 2 PAM concentrations in the brain Table 2 . The powder 2 PAM POD study was more limited than the aqueous formulation but at 5 and 15 minutes after administration the powder formulation resulted in similar blood levels compared to the aqueous 2 PAM POD but significantly higher brain concentrations.

Table 2 shows distribution of the powder formulation of 2 PAM administered via POD. The powder formulation of POD resulted in plasma values at 5 and 15 minutes that were not significantly different than the liquid formulation of POD. However the 2 PAM concentrations after POD administration of the powder formulation were significantly greater than either the aqueous POD 2 PAM or the IV 2 PAM. p

The pharmacokinetic and distribution experiments resulted in data supporting the potential of POD administered 2 PAM as a treatment for nerve gas exposure. The POD administration in both the aqueous formulation and the powder formulation resulted in high brain exposure within the first 5 minutes of administration.

The device used in Example 2 is described in . The device in this example is referred to as a pressurized olfactory delivery POD device. In order to determine the amount of compound being delivered from the device to the olfactory region of the nasal cavity a method was developed for determining the percentage of dose deposited within key regions of a human nasal cavity model. This method relies on a quantitation by image analysis and is able to detect and quantitate deposition within 5 specified regions that describe the whole nasal model including the upper olfactory region.

Materials A human nasal cavity model was constructed from clear heat moldable plastic sheeting. This mold is thin walled and is transparent to a blue light source that allows for the excitation of the indicator dye fluorescein used in the experimental doses. This human nasal cavity model was based on a computer model generated from MRI scans from multiple subjects Liu J Appl Physiol 2009 March 106 3 784 95 . The model therefore represents an average human nasal cavity.

A stage for positioning the nasal models and aiming the POD device during targeting and actuation was designed and constructed. This stage was flexible enough in operation to allow for a wide set of aiming angles both horizontal and vertical. By aiming the device at various angles with respect to the nasal cavity the robustness of the device administration could be tested.

A thin walled transparent nasal model was prepared by coating the inside with a very thin layer of imitation mucus which was simply a store bought hand sanitizer solution. The prepared model was then photographed in a custom made transilluminator photo box as a blank reference for that particular experimental point. The model was then mounted onto the stage along with the POD device that has been loaded with a dose of 0.1 mg mL Fluorescein water. Immediately after POD actuation the model was removed from the stage and held horizontally to prevent dose migrating. As soon as possible the dosed model was placed in the transilluminator photo box and photographed. The model was then washed under a stream of tap water and dried by shaking or forced air to be readied for another test. The two camera images were then digitally analyzed as described below to reveal deposition within the model.

Data processing of the blank and experimental images obtained was carried out with ImageJ software. For ImageJ to repeatedly compare images and perform background subtraction accurately the digital photographs were taken with the model carefully held in the same register within the transilluminator photo box. ImageJ performs three key functions 1 the image was color processed with the RGB channel splitter. This function eliminates red and blue signals from the image leaving primarily signal generated by the fluorescent signal from the fluorescein in the dose.

The ImageJ ROI manager allowed us to define five regions of interest olfactory turbinate esophagus base and vestibule which were quantitatively analyzed with each device administration. The regions are defined by the lines seen in and these regions contain a specific area in pixels that can be quantitated based on the signal intensity of the fluorescein. also shows a typical spray pattern after a POD administration. The fluorescein administered into the model by the POD device can be seen as the dark intensity on the light background. It can be noted from in that a majority of the administered dose resides within the olfactory region of the human nasal model. Each pixel within these photos can possess a value of 0 to 255. The Measure function of ImageJ calculates the mean pixel value over each defined region of interest. The total signal recorded within a particular region of interest is therefore the product of the mean pixel value by the number of pixels measured. Of additional interest is the reported Max value. Because the photo cannot record more than 256 levels of signal we conclude that the assay is not valid if we receive values of 255 in that column because we cannot be sure if the actual signal is not significantly greater than 255 if it could be measured. Such a situation would have the effect of underreporting signal in that ROI because the signal is effectively clipped. For this reason the camera exposure settings are critical to ensure that the signals recorded fall within the sensitivity range of the method yet allow for the maximal sensitivity of the method as well.

In addition our calculations involved the subtraction of values obtained from a blank recording. This is because there is some stray light leakage and always therefore the potential for background fluorescence involving the model and the imitation mucus. Because these elements are not perfect in application we do a background photo record each time and do a subtraction for each data point. This method offers the advantage of providing fractional deposition on more than one region of the nasal model. It also offers clear qualitative photo visual confirmation of the quantitative results.

The results of a deposition study are shown in Table 3. Two different POD devices were used and are referred to as Tip 1 and Tip 2. Each Tip was administered into the nasal model N 3 times at either 0 degrees horizontal angle with respect to the septum or 5 degrees horizontally towards the septum. All POD administrations were administered at a vertical angle of 55 degrees with respect to the base of the nasal cavity.

Impaction force testing was used to compare several nozzle dose chamber configurations with MDI drivers to several commercial nasal spray products. Impact impaction force is an ideal method to characterize plume characteristics that are important for dose delivery consistency dose localization and dosing comfort and safety. A schematic of the experimental setup used in this example is shown in .

Impaction force measurements were carried out on a Mettler Toledo XS 64 with data output set at 10 per second coupled to an Apple MacBook Pro 2.2 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor 4 GB 667 MHz DDR2 SDRAM via a ft. RS232 Mettler Toledo to USB cable Gigaware with supporting driver software. Data acquisition was carried out using Windmill Logger version 4.07 release 7 Windmill Software Ltd. in a Windows Vista virtual machine environment using Parallels Desktop 5 for Mac on the MacBook Pro. Data collected via Windmill Logger was imported directly into Microsoft Excel for graphical processing and analysis.

An impaction force stage was constructed to perform the measurements. This stage included means for accurate level and distance controls along with customized holders for the individual devices tested. Actuation was carried out manually. POD or commercial devices were aligned to impact the direct center of a 16.9 gram aluminum pan 74 mm 80 mm. The pan was cleaned of dose debris between each data shot. The distance from nozzle aperture to pan was 4 cm consistent with the conclusions of Guo et al. 2009 Guo J Pharm Sci. 2009 August 98 8 2799 806. as being within the 3 cm to 6 cm window of distances that generate the highest impaction forces and also consistent with our target distances in human nasal models. MDI triggered values obtained via valve actuation as tested was broadly insensitive from shot to shot when used as directed. The only effects seen were lower values if actuated very slowly.

Three commercial nasal spray products were tested in this Example Rite Aid Pump Mist Nasal relief oxymetasoline HCL 0.05 NeilMed NasoGel For Dry Noses Saline gel spray and Rite Aid NoDrip Nasal Spray pump oxymetazoline 0.05 .

The device used in this study is shown in and is referred to as a pressurized olfactory delivery POD device in this Example. The POD nozzle was compared to the commercial spray pumps tested above. In this Example we tested the POD device under the same parameters as the commercial sprays using MDI canisters loaded with a 5 Ethanol fluorescein mixed with either HFA 134a or HFA 227. The MDI valves were set to deliver a fixed volume of 50 uL.

The impaction forces measured for three commercial pump style nasal sprays were found to generate peak forces generally below 0.8 grams. These products are noted for either generating very broad spray patterns or slow moving streams of gelatinous material. The forces generated from these tested products fall well below the forces quoted by Guo et al. 2009 of 3.0 to 4.9 grams. The POD device generated impaction force measurements with peaks near 4 grams with an average of just below 3 grams of force when the more highly volatile HFA 134a was used. This force dropped to below 2 grams when HFA 227 was used instead. In either case the impaction forces for the POD device also fell well within the range of impaction forces measured for commercial MDI device by Guo et al. 2009 which showed a maximum value of 6.5 grams.

It was found that the impaction forces measured are affected by the HFA type used and the volume of HFA dispensed by the MDI canister. Also the dose chamber and nozzle configuration have impacts on impaction forces. In no case have we measured forces greater than that measured for the one commercial product referenced in the Guo et al. paper.

In this example the device referred to as a pressurized olfactory delivery POD device was tested to determine if the device would release a cold temperature spray. This testing involved the measurement of surface temperature changes on the target region caused by HFA POD. A schematic of the experimental setup used in this example is shown in .

The hydrofluoroalkane HFA used as a propellant in the POD device is released from the metering can as a liquid. Very quickly after release the HFA vaporizes and expands to form the pressure impulse that drives the dose through the POD nozzle. It is also a characteristic of the HFA POD that the HFA gas is expelled toward the target along with and after the dose is delivered. The expansion of the HFA causes a marked drop in temperature of the propellant gas during the firing process. In order to establish whether this temperature drop is transferred to target tissues and to what extent we designed and performed experiments to detect and measure the surface temperature of targets during and immediately after they were impacted by the device while only releasing HFA or while releasing a mixture of HFA and liquid compound as it would be used for administering a liquid drug product .

Materials Kintrex infrared thermometer model IRT0421 capable of measuring surface temperature without actually contacting the surface being tested. Temperatures are reported in degrees Fahrenheit. An actuator fitted with a HFA 134a canister designed to deliver 50 L of propellant Kimwipe paper wipes petri dish 1 agarose water 3 tips including a high impedance low impedance nozzle and open configuration absent frit.

Three tip configurations were tested. 1. A tip with a high impedance nozzle fitted. A high impedance nozzle is sufficiently restrictive to flow of HFA gas that the nozzle is the limiting feature of the POD system. It releases gas over a longer duration. 2. A tip with a low impedance nozzle fitted. In this tip the frit near the actuator end of the tip is actually the limiting feature of the device. It releases gas faster than the high impedance nozzle. 3. A tip that contains neither a nozzle nor frit. This tip offers essentially no restriction to HFA gas or liquid flow through the device. With these three configurations we expected to understand how restrictions on gas flow affects the temperature of target upon firing and also define the distinct role that the teflon frit plays in diffusing and facilitating the transition of HFA from the liquid state to the gaseous state.

We also tested the effect of target proximity to the nozzle with respect to temperature changes experienced by the target . We fired from a distance of 4 cm and 2 cm.

In addition we fired the device at three different targets. 1 We used a very low mass target . This target was constructed of a Kimwipe tissue paper. We anticipated that a low mass target would have a very low thermal inertia and therefore would display much more change in temperature upon firing. 2 We created a mock epithelium epithelium mimic 1 by overlaying a Kimwipe tissue paper wipe onto 1 agarose water. This was designed so that the thermometer would react to a similar color and texture surface as the low mass target. 3 Another mock epithelium epithelium mimic 2 made from 1 agarose water with Kimwipe paper embedded just below the surface less than 0.5 mm of the agarose. This target was designed in case the thermometer would react to the paper layer just below the essentially clear agarose to see if the temperature effects were mostly superficial.

In addition some temperature measurements were done on the epithelium mimics when a 50 L water dose was added to the setup. Table 4 summarizes the temperature changes detected upon the firing of only hydrofluoroalkane propellant. The temperature change in degrees Fahrenheit is represented by the symbol . We believed and confirmed that this would create the conditions for the most dramatic temperature changes. With the low mass low thermal inertia paper target the greatest temperature change was when no frit or nozzle was installed in the tip. The data for this condition was closely clustered near 25 F. Indeed with this setup particulate or mist can be seen ejecting from the end of the tip suggesting that a certain fraction of the HFA remains liquid through its transit through the actuator body and tip. Any liquid HFA that were to reach the target would then ablate on the target and could explain the dramatic temperature drops seen.

In addition some temperature measurements were done on the epithelium mimics when a 50 L water dose was added to the setup. Table 4 summarizes the temperature changes detected upon the firing of only hydrofluoroalkane propellant. The temperature change in degrees Fahrenheit is represented by the symbol A. We believed and confirmed that this would create the conditions for the most dramatic temperature changes. With the low mass low thermal inertia paper target the greatest temperature change was when no frit or nozzle was installed in the tip. The data for this condition was closely clustered near 25 F. Indeed with this setup particulate or mist can be seen ejecting from the end of the tip suggesting that a certain fraction of the HFA remains liquid through its transit through the actuator body and tip. Any liquid HFA that were to reach the target would then ablate on the target and could explain the dramatic temperature drops seen.

In contrast all other experimental conditions resulted in far smaller temperature drops at the target. Modest drops of 3 4 F. were seen with the unobstructed tip on the epithelium mimics. It is clear the thermal capacity of the target is critical in this analysis.

Inclusion of the Teflon frit and nozzle into the tip resulted in even smaller temperature drops. Against the low mass tissue target the low impedance nozzle resulted in the greatest temperature drop with a maximum value of 5.6 F. at a distance of 2 cm. The high impedance nozzle resulted in slightly lower temperature drops. Typical values were 3 F. or less.

There is a slight trend depending on tip distance to target. As would be expected shots at closer range can result in lower temperatures at the target.

When a dose load of 50 L water was added to the tip that included a Teflon frit and low impedance nozzle very small temperature effects were seen. The data ranged from a 0.5 F. drop to a 0.2 F. increase. It was determined that with the small changes seen and the difficulty of handling the liquid doses in the experimental setup that we would not be able to get reliable data with liquid doses. However we believe the data collected with the liquid doses in consistent with predicted outcomes.

The hydrofluoroalkane propellant used in the POD device will have very minimal effects on the temperature of impacted tissues. The data show the Teflon frit s function in the POD and the decrease in the temperature of the impacted site when only HFA is delivered. In addition a typical load of 50 L will itself likely reduce any temperature effects.

In assaying the targeting of the human olfactory region with a drug product 2 formulations of 2 PAM were delivered from the device into a human nasal cavity model and analyzed for olfactory deposition.

A silicon rubber human nasal cavity model was purchased from Koken Inc. Tokyo Japan . A trace amount 0.1 of Coomassie blue SigmaAldrich St. Louis Mo. was mixed into the dry powder 2 PAM. The dry powder 2 PAM and Coomassie blue were crushed to a homogenous powder with a mortar and pestle. 0.1 rhodamine B was added into the aqueous formulation 250 mg ml for visualization within the nasal cavity model. The dry powder formulation was sprayed into the model nasal cavity N 10 with the device and pictures were taken to get a qualitative measure of deposition in the olfactory region. The pictures were judged as to whether a majority of the powder 2 PAM was deposited in the olfactory region.

The same was done with the aqueous formulation and the deposition in the olfactory region was also quantified by weight for this formulation N 10 . The olfactory region of the nasal cavity model was cut from the model so that it was removable. The olfactory region was weighed before the POD spray and after the spray and the percent of dose administered to the olfactory region was calculated by weight.

The dry powder 2 PAM formulation administered into the human nasal cavity was effective in depositing of drug in the olfactory region. Qualitative examination of 10 administration attempts into the model consistently was judged to show a majority of drug about 50 or greater in the olfactory region. In addition to depositing drug on the olfactory region the dry powder POD device deposited a substantial amount of the 2 PAM dose at the interface with the cribriform plate area of the model which separates the olfactory region of the nasal cavity from the brain.

The aqueous 2 PAM formulation displayed similar patterns of deposition in the human nasal cavity model as the dry powder formulation. In addition to the qualitative photos of the human nasal cavity 62.6 9.6 of the dose was determined to deposit in the olfactory region of the nasal cavity.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

