---

title: System and method to create resilient site master-key for automated access
abstract: A system encrypts a private key with a master key and includes a storage device for storing a protected private key at a site location, a processor that determines a plurality of derivatives by selecting an order of site characteristics from a plurality of disjoint sets of site characteristics unique to a software installation or site location, wherein the processor applies a hash algorithm to each site characteristic. The system further includes a buffer storage device for storing an order of random selections of the site characteristics for the derivatives. The system encrypts the master key with the derivatives and additionally stores the encrypted form of the master key in a storage device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122888&OS=09122888&RS=09122888
owner: Dell Products, LP
number: 09122888
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130722
---
This disclosure generally relates to information handling systems and more particularly relates creating a resilient master key for secure site access by automated systems.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an information handling system. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as clinical healthcare data storage and distribution financial transaction processing procurement stocking and delivery tracking provision of data services and software airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems. Today most business enterprises have sophisticated computing systems that are used both for internal operations and for communicating outside the enterprise s network. Certain data such as healthcare related information or financial information may be extremely sensitive data requiring heightened protection. Encryption and protection of physical storage sites holding such data may provide a measure of protection but create substantial difficulty in access and distribution of such data to authorized users.

The following description in combination with the Figures is provided to assist in understanding the teachings disclosed herein. The following discussion will focus on specific implementations and embodiments of the teachings. This focus is provided to assist in describing the teachings and should not be interpreted as a limitation on the scope or applicability of the teachings. However other teachings may be utilized in this application as well as in other applications and with several different types of architectures such as distributed computing architectures client or server architectures or middleware server architectures and associated components.

Most businesses and other enterprises have sophisticated computing systems used for facilitating internal operations and for storing sensitive data protecting access to such data and securely communicating outside the enterprise s network for example to exchange information with business partners healthcare providers or the similar data exchange partners. Much of present day information exchange is conducted electronically via communications networks both internally to the enterprise and among enterprises. Accordingly it is often necessary to store information or exchange information or data securely to protect the data from theft. For example protected health information PHI must be carefully protected under Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA and the privacy of PHI must be maintained. Disclosures must be accounted for. Additionally limitations must be placed on transmission of sensitive PHI to protect the privacy among other things. Thus storage of PHI must comply with technical safeguards including use of encryption techniques to prevent intrusion in open networks or optional encryption in closed networks. Similarly electronic exchange of PHI between distinctly different computing systems computer networks software applications etc. must also comply with technical protection requirements including technical safeguards for preventing interception and unauthorized use of transmission. Accessing entity authentication techniques may be used such as passwords token systems or the like. Data protection may include encryption techniques checksum usage data corroboration message authentication and digital signatures to protect and enable communications between diverse systems or networks or applications in connection with the conducting of data exchange including for example healthcare data exchange. In the case of healthcare related data strict limitations may be placed on transmitting the sensitive data from a site location. These strict limitations may be submitted in cleartext as opposed to encrypted text to ensure the limitations are followed.

More specifically the system includes a conventional user client device such as a personal computer enabling a user to communicate via a communications network such as the Internet. The exemplary user device may be configured with conventional web browser software. The web browser such as Microsoft Corporation s Internet Explorer web browser software allows the user to interact with secured websites via the network .

The client clinical device is positioned within an enterprise network such as an enterprise healthcare network behind an enterprise network s firewall . Client clinical device may be an authorized requestor device behind the enterprise firewall. For illustrative purposes the enterprise healthcare network includes a clinical archive system which may include conventional computer hardware and commercially available clinical healthcare data entry and archive systems such as the Dell Cloud Clinical Archive DCCA . In an example embodiment the DCCA may be managed by an Intelligent Management Gateway IMG installed on top of an enterprise grade linux installation at the enterprise healthcare network .

The system further includes authorized requestor systems and as client clinical devices outside the enterprise healthcare network for receiving and or transmitting data relating to sensitive healthcare information. For example a physician s office may operate authorized requestor system to allow for transmitting medical records and images to be stored in clinical archives at a healthcare enterprise for example a hospital and to receive medical records and images from clinical archives of a healthcare enterprise in electronic data form as part of electronic data exchange processes. In an example embodiment the IMG software may connect to client clinical devices or of authorized requestors via health informatics standards such as set forth in ISO standard 12052 2006 Health informatics Digital imaging and communication in medicine DICOM including workflow and data management or ANSI Health Level 7 HL7 for transmitting data or receiving data from a clinical archive system data center. In an embodiment the site specific characteristics of the physical sites of the clinical archive or the authorized requestors and are used with one or more layers of encryptions to protect the PHI. These site locations include several site specific characteristics relating to the hardware located there virtual location identification information or characteristics unique to the installation of software at a site location. Many if not most of the site specific characteristics can only be known by someone with physical or virtual access to the system storing the PHI or requesting the PHI. Random selection of a plurality of the site specific characteristics provides a useful algorithm and tools for protecting a resilient site specific master encryption key. The site specific master key is generated in one embodiment and protected using one or more derivatives generated from the selected site specific characteristics. This site specific master key may be used to protect one or more other encryption keys. In an example embodiment a layered encryption system may be set up whereby the site specific master key is used to encrypt a private key at a location which in turn is used to encrypt a symmetric key. Upon discarding the original site specific master key a layered encryption system is set up to protect the stored PHI or transmitted PHI. In the example embodiment the symmetric key would encrypt or decrypt the protected PHI.

Finally the system includes a server that may represent a secured cloud clinical archive system used by the healthcare enterprise. In one embodiment the cloud clinical archive server is subject to strict limitations on accessibility of PHI and limitations on transmission. The site specific characteristics of the cloud clinical archive may be used just as they are used by the clinical archive or authorized requestor systems and may be used to secure the site specific master key and thus secure the PHI information.

The system and method to generate a resilient site specific master key may be used with one or more encryption algorithms to protect PHI or similarly sensitive data. In an exemplary embodiment a layered method of encryption may be used to protect PHI or other sensitive information. shows such a layered encryption method in use for bi directional transmission of sensitive information between a first physical site and a second physical site . The sensitive information may include medical content and having PHI. The encryption layers include a two way symmetrical encryption a public private encryption and a master key. A symmetrical key sometimes called a bulk encryption key BEK is used to encrypt the sensitive information . The symmetrical key may be a suitable symmetric key including stream or block ciphers. Example suitable symmetric key algorithms may include the Advanced Encryption Standard AES cipher Twofish symmetric key block cipher Serpent symmetric key block cipher Blowfish symmetric key block cipher CASTS symmetric key block cipher RC4 stream cipher Triple Data Encryption Algorithm 3DES block cipher International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA symmetric key block cipher or other similar symmetric key algorithms.

The public key encryption layer is the next layer shown in . It includes asymmetric encryption algorithms for secure transmission in either direction. A public key public KEK1 is stored at second physical site and a private key pvt KEK1 is stored at a first physical site for use in a public private encryption pairing to encrypt transmission of the symmetrical key from a second site to an authorized requestor or system at a first site . Similarly public key public KEK2 is stored at first physical site and a private key pvt KEK2 is stored at a second physical site for use in a public private encryption pairing to encrypt transmission of the symmetrical key from first site to an authorized requestor or system at second site . This may be accomplished via techniques such as the Diffie Hellman key exchange protocol password authenticated key agreements ElGamal asymmetric encryption algorithm RSA public key encryption or similar asymmetric encryption algorithms.

The third layer of encryption shown in is site specific master keying. The first site has a master encryption key MK1 for encrypting the private key . The second site has its own master encryption key MK2 for encrypting private key . Additional detail of the site specific master key algorithms and the symmetric and asymmetric encryption algorithms are described further below.

The layers may include a symmetrical key used to encrypt the medical content or other sensitive information for transmission for example from a first site to second site . shows a flow diagram illustrating protecting and transmitting sensitive data by a server or other processing system at a first site. The sensitive data may include medical data containing PHI. The transmission is made between first and second sites in the example embodiment pursuant to an authorized request for the data. The process begins at where sensitive data such as healthcare data is received at the first site . The processor or processors of the servers at the first site encrypt the sensitive data with a symmetric key at . Then the sensitive data is stored in a memory device at the first site . In this example the symmetric key is referred to as a bulk encryption key BEK . This bulk encryption key is stored in a memory device at the first site at .

Proceeding to of the present embodiment a public key public KEK is received from a requesting second site or target site via a network interface device to enable encryption of the sensitive data. At an authorized request for sensitive data such as data containing PHI is received via the network interface device at the first site. Systems and methods of determining authorization may be built in to the software module that regenerates the resilient site specific master key. This authentication and authorization will ensure that only user processes with appropriate roles can automatically run the regeneration of the master key. An example authorization or authentication technique includes using MS operating system mandatory access controls Unix Mandatory Access Control or a similar type of mandatory access control. This may be done by setting up mandatory access control in Unix for example via SLES Apparmor SELinux or another suitable mechanism to control editing the access control privileges to an authorized administrator by the secure the access module. An authorized user process is assigned user credentials and membership to a Unix group identification which must be verified before a request of access is granted. It is understood that the public key may be received at the first site before or simultaneously with the authorized request for sensitive data depending on the protocol embodiment used.

At the first site processor or processors encrypt the symmetric key BEK with the received public key public KEK . Then the encrypted symmetric key is stored at . Proceeding to the processing system at the first site transmits the encrypted symmetric key BEK and the sensitive data to the second site or target site pursuant to the authorized request. Upon receipt the symmetric key BEK may be retrieved from decryption only by use of the private key private KEK corresponding to the public key public KEK used to encrypt the BEK. The private key is stored securely in a memory device and maintained at the second site. Once the BEK is decrypted by the private key the second site may decrypt the sensitive data such as that containing PHI for use by the authorized requestor. The private key at the second site must be securely maintained to avoid a breach of security around the PHI by an interceptor of the transmitted data. Without the private key private KEK the symmetric key BEK protecting the PHI is unavailable from the transmission.

Beginning at the processor or processors of the server at the target site transmits to or shares the public key public KEK with the storage site via network interface device.

Protection is added in by encrypting the private key private KEK with a resilient site specific master key MK in the memory device at the target site. The master key MK is a randomly generated number with a sufficient level of entropy or randomness. With sufficiently high entropy then the probability of the same master key being generated twice for example across two systems is very low. For example in a given stream of bytes information density may be measured in bits character. One example of sufficient entropy is a random number with greater than seven bits per character. Fewer bits per character may also be sufficient whereas more bits per character yields a higher level of entropy.

Examples of pseudo random number generation may be found in several sources. For example NIST Special Publication 800 90A is a standards paper describing use of Recommended Random Number Generation Using Deterministic Random Bit Generators. A master key random number may be generated using a pseudorandom number generator such as part of a kernel used to generate random numbers for operating system events. One example embodiment uses a hardware volatile entropy gathering and expansion HAVEGE algorithm based on processor and system operational variations in connection with external events such as environmental noise collected from device drivers. A further example of this uses a haveged daemon in the linux dev random file for generating random numbers. Additional examples of proprietary hardware or software random number generation are also contemplated for use in generating a master key with a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator for example use of Microsoft s CryptGenRandom Cryptographic Application Programming Interface.

Proceeding to the processor or processors store the encrypted private key private KEK corresponding to the public KEK in a memory device at the target site. As stated the private key is very sensitive and must not be discovered to avoid successful decryption of the layered encryption system described in embodiments above. The layered encryption system is meant to protect sensitive data with PHI in one embodiment. At safeguards are placed on the storage of the private KEK at the memory device of the target site in the form of a rule to restrict transmission of the private KEK stored there from the target site.

The flow proceeds to block . The mechanism for creating a resilient site specific master key creates several derivatives for use in encrypting the master key. As will be discussed below a large number of site specific characteristics are selected for the site utilizing the master key. Each derivative is created from a randomly selected site specific characteristic by applying a hash algorithm to the site specific identifying characteristic often a number or series of characters. In an example embodiment a known hash algorithm may be utilized such as SHA1 or similar hash function and applied to the number or series of characters representing the site specific identifying characteristic selected for a derivative. In another embodiment multiple hash functions may be applied to the site specific identifying characteristic for example a hash of a hash. Over a plurality of derivatives the order of site specific characteristics used and the number and sequence of hash functions applied is recorded and encrypted in a buffer memory structure for later access. Additional detail on the generation of site specific derivatives will be discussed below.

The flow proceeds to where the system for creating a resilient site specific master key operating on processors at the site encrypts the master key with the derivatives generated in . This generates encrypted master key forms. At the master key is discarded and at the encrypted forms of master key under the derivatives are stored at a memory device. In an embodiment the encrypted forms of master key are stored at the site servers.

Then the flow proceeds to block where the processor operating the system for creating a resilient site specific master key at the target site receives encrypted sensitive data via a network interface device. In an embodiment the encrypted sensitive data received includes the public key encrypted symmetric key BEK and the sensitive data from the storage site. To decrypt the symmetric key BEK received the target system accesses the private key stored in a memory device at the target system. In the present embodiment the site specific master key must be regenerated.

The flow proceeds to where the site specific characteristic selection order is decrypted and accessed by the system for regenerating a resilient site specific master key. The site specific characteristics are again selected in order may be converted to derivatives and used to decrypt the master key from the several encrypted master key forms. Any two or more matching decrypted keys indicates the master key at .

Proceeding to the regenerated master key is used by the processor or processors of the target site to decrypt the private key private KEK stored in the memory device. With the private key the authorized target site can access the symmetric key BEK encrypting the sensitive information or PHI at . At the BEK may be used to decrypt the PHI data making it available for authorized use at the target system.

Proceeding to decision diamond the processor or processors at the target site determine if an additional access to sensitive data or PHI is required. If so the flow returns to to send an authorized access request to the next storage site holding sensitive data needed at the target site. If no additional PHI access is necessary the flow ends.

Disjoint sets are created using the site specific characteristics . The plurality of disjoint sets may utilize some similar source site specific characteristics but not all disjoint sets have complete overlap. Thus the disjoint sets are not all subject to a change in a given site specific characteristic to the physical system or software installation. For example a system MAC address may be used as a source in some disjoint sets but not all. If a network interface controller NIC is changed or replaced during operation of the system to create and regenerate the resilient site specific master key it will only affect some disjoint sets . Other disjoint sets will not use the MAC address characteristic as a source characteristic. This adds one degree of resiliency to the master key and system for creating and regenerating the resilient site specific master key. In this particular example embodiment N predetermined disjoint sets are created using the L unique site specific characteristics where each disjoint set contains M site specific characteristics as sources.

The derivatives are generated by randomly selecting at least one source site specific characteristic from a respective disjoint set to create a derivative corresponding to the set . In an embodiment as shown N derivatives are shown where one site specific characteristic is randomly selected from each disjoint set . The number of disjoint sets and derivatives correspond in this embodiment. In another embodiment more than one site specific characteristic from each disjoint set is selected by the system for each derivative . In another embodiment a disjoint set may source more than one derivative with a site specific characteristic . In yet another embodiment multiple disjoint sets may source one derivative with a site specific characteristic .

In the embodiment shown in a hash algorithm may be applied to the selected site specific characteristic to create each derivative . In another embodiment a hash function or multiple hash functions may be applied in repeated sequences. The selection order of random selection of site specific characteristics from the disjoint sets to generate the derivatives is preserved and encrypted in a buffer using an embedded fixed key using symmetric key encryption. In an alternative embodiment the sequence and number of hash functions applied to the site specific characteristics may also be recorded and preserved in encrypted buffer for later use in regenerating a master key. The predetermined disjoint sets must be stored and preserved as well in a memory structure at the site utilizing the system for creating a resilient site specific master key.

A random number generator or pseudo random number generator is used to generate random number R as a master key . The master key is encrypted using the derivatives to generate encrypted master key forms also referred to as encrypted keys N . The system for creating a resilient site specific master key stores the encrypted master keys and discards the master key .

Upon decryption of the encrypted buffer the embedded fixed key may be used to access the random selection order of site specific characteristics and hash algorithm application. Using this random selection order and the disjoint sets the derivatives may be regenerated. The encrypted master key may be decrypted using the regenerated derivatives to create decrypted keys . Any two or more matching decrypted keys indicate the regenerated master key . If a site specific characteristic changes in the meantime before regeneration of the master key it will not affect the resiliency of the master key protection because a plurality of site specific characteristics have been used to generate derivatives . The chances of all site specific characteristics being changed during maintenance upgrades et cetera is low. Additionally the chances that two random numbers R result from decryption error to indicate a false master key is also low due to inherent diversity in the sources of derivatives. A system attempting to access the master key but not having the correct site specific characteristics will be unable to regenerate the master key and access sensitive information such as the private key.

Example changes that could affect some encrypted master key forms but not all encrypted master key forms include the MAC address change described above a change to a motherboard or processor used in at the site an upgrade to the software installation changing the timestamp or checksum or a change to a virtual address location such as the VMware Serial number among others. With such a change occurring the system for creating a resilient site specific master key may replace the changed site specific characteristics with a current value in the disjoint sets and regenerate the site specific derivatives . The updated site specific derivatives may be used to encrypt the regenerated master key once again. The random selection order may be once again buffer encrypted and the encrypted master key forms stored again for later use to access the master key. In an alternative embodiment if one decrypted key does not match all derivative values may be regenerated with new site specific characteristics used as sources from the disjoint sets . Then the generation of new derivatives and encrypted master key forms may proceed as described.

Use of the above system of avoids the pitfalls of other options of protecting sensitive information such as a private key. For example storage of a random generated master key in a cloud based trustee solution requires reliance on a third party and is subject to accessibility and security issues with the internet. Use of a hardware security module HSM in the site server system is an added cost. Moreover an HSM requires an integration effort within the site server system and may call for required changes to accommodate the HSM hardware. The system and method for creating a site specific master key described in the embodiments of and elsewhere herein are automatic for storage and retrieval of the unique master key and do not require human intervention. The systems and methods of the embodiments herein exploit a combination of uniqueness to the physical site virtual site software installation or a combination of the same. These characteristics inherently have a general invariance at least as to the plurality of site specific characteristics used. The described system and methods are resilient to changes in some of the physical virtual or software characteristics by permitting regeneration of the master key even if some change occurs. Further the system and method for creating a site specific master key provide security in two ways the developer who built the pseudorandom number generator used to generate the master key may know the methodology but will not have access to the site specific characteristics and those with access to the site specific characteristics in turn likely do not have the details of the master key generation technique.

Proceeding to the system and method for creating the site specific master key creates a set of multiple predetermined disjoint sets of source site specific characteristics. In one embodiment a disjoint set of several site specific characteristics is created for each of the plurality of site specific derivatives to be generated. In another embodiment two or more disjoint sets may be used as a source to create a site specific derivative. In yet another alternative embodiment each disjoint set may be used to create multiple site specific derivatives. Any combination of disjoint sets and site specific derivatives is contemplated.

At of the presently described embodiment one or more site specific characteristics from each disjoint set are randomly selected for a site specific derivative. This is repeated for several site specific derivatives. The order of random selection of site specific characteristics from disjoint sets is recorded during the creation of the plurality of derivatives.

In one embodiment the flow proceeds to where a hash function is applied to each selected site specific characteristic to generate each derivative. Known hash functions may be used such as SHA1 SHA2 MD5 checksums and other hash functions. A plurality of derivatives are generated at . Application of the hash function permits further encoding of the data and also may generate a uniform result for each site specific derivative. In other words the strings of characters and numbers for each site specific characteristic may be of unique length and include numerous character types. Application of a hash may generate a string of number or characters of uniform length which has advantages in utilization by the system upon decryption after storage. Additionally multiple site specific derivatives of uniform length and hashing functions further add to the security protection.

The flow proceeds to decision block in one embodiment where the processor or processors determine whether the instructions require application of multiple hash functions to each selected site specific derivatives. This hash within a hash feature is an alternative embodiment of the present disclosure. It may include utilizing the same hashing algorithm two times in a row in an embodiment. In another embodiment the system and method may utilize different hashing algorithms in a sequence. The hashing algorithm application may be recorded for later reconstruction of the site specific derivatives. If the application of multiple hash functions is called for the system returns to to apply another hash function. If not the system and method flow proceeds to . In an alternative embodiment sequenced hash functions may alter the length of a site specific characteristic in some ways such that each derivative may be of different length which may add to unpredictability of the system.

At the random order of selection of site specific characteristics from the disjoint sets that was recorded is stored in a memory device. In one embodiment where multiple hash function applications are used the number of hash applications and the sequence may also be stored in the memory device separately or together with the site specific characteristic selection order.

In one embodiment these algorithms for randomly selecting characteristics and for applying hash functions is stored and encrypted in a buffer memory at the site utilizing symmetric bulk encryption key. The flow proceeds to where the system and method for creating the site specific master key encrypts the site specific characteristics selection order in the buffer. In another embodiment the hash function application sequences are also encrypted in the buffer. In the specific embodiment described herein a symmetric encryption is used to encrypt the buffer. Tight access controls are placed on this symmetric encryption key protecting the random site specific characteristic selection order stored in a buffer memory by limiting access only to authorized personnel. This symmetric key may embedded in code via code obfuscation to limit access to the key. Thus access to this symmetric key for protecting the random site specific characteristic selection order is limited to an authorized user or system on a very limited basis.

Proceeding to a random number is selected with sufficient entropy to serve as the master key. Random number generators or pseudorandom number generators as described above may be used by the processor or processors executing instructions to run the system and method for creating site specific master key.

At the system for creating a site specific master key encrypts the master key random number in each of the site specific derivatives generated at . A plurality of encrypted master key forms are generated at . Proceeding to the encrypted master key forms are stored at a memory device at the physical site or virtual site utilizing the master key system.

Proceeding to the master key random number is used to encrypt sensitive information on the physical site. In an example embodiment the private key utilized by the site to receive sensitive data such as PHI is encrypted with the master key. After encryption of the private key or other sensitive information the master key is discarded at . The information to automatically regenerate the master key upon an authorized need to use it is stored with the encrypted master key forms and the encrypted site characteristic selection order and hash algorithm sequence .

The system for creating a resilient site specific master key may also be called upon to regenerate the master key for access to the information it protects such as the private key of . At decision diamond the processor or processors determine if a request has been received by the system site to automatically generate the site specific master key. If not the flow ends until such a request is received.

If a request to regenerate the site specific master key is received by the system the flow proceeds to . At the buffer is decrypted to yield the site specific characteristic selection order. A tightly controlled symmetric key may be accessed with authorization to decrypt the buffer. In one embodiment the hash application sequence is also decrypted and accessed. The encrypted hash application sequence will use a key embedded in the decryption in obfuscated form.

Based on the site specific selection order decrypted from the buffer memory the processors execute instructions to re select those physical virtual and software characteristics again at . The hash function if it is a known algorithm is re applied to these site specific characteristics to re create the site specific derivatives at . In an alternate embodiment the hash function application sequence is applied according to the decrypted sequence from the buffer memory.

The flow proceeds to where the system retrieves the encrypted master key forms from the memory device. The re created site specific derivatives generated at are used to decrypt the encrypted master key forms at . Decrypting the encrypted master key forms with the re created derivatives yields multiple decrypted keys. Those decrypted keys may be the resilient site specific master key. At the processor or processors executing the system for creating a site specific master key compare the decrypted keys generated at . Any two or more decrypted keys that match indicates the regenerated master key which can be used to decrypt the data protected with the private key. In this embodiment the private key may be decrypted with the master key. As described above if a physical virtual or software site specific characteristic changed while the encrypted master key forms were stored the decrypted key from that encrypted master key form will not match the others and that encrypted master key form no longer can generate the master key. The plurality of encrypted master key forms therefore lends substantial resilience to the system. One or more physical virtual or software site characteristics may be changed but the master key may still be securely regenerated.

At decision diamond the processor or processors executing the system and method for creating the resilient site specific master key determines whether any decrypted keys at are non matching with the master key. If all match the site specific selection order and hash function application sequence in the buffer memory may be re used. The master key may be used to re encrypt the private key and be discarded whereby the process ends.

If some encrypted master key forms do not match the master key upon decryption the flow proceeds to . For each encrypted master key form having a non matching decrypted key at the system and method may replace the site specific characteristic chosen for that derivative with an updated site specific characteristic in the disjoint set or another site specific characteristic from the disjoint set may be randomly selected. If the site specific characteristic selection order from the disjoint sets is altered the new site specific characteristic selection order is recorded.

At the system and method for creating a site specific master key generates the new corrected derivatives by replacing non matching derivatives. At any altered site specific characteristic selection order is updated in the buffer memory and encrypted there to enable later master key regeneration at the site. The regenerated master key is encrypted with the new corrected derivatives and the master key is discarded at . The site specific selection order and hash function application sequence may be re encrypted in the buffer memory at . The corrected encrypted master key forms are stored in a memory device at the site using the master key system not shown . At this point the flow may end until the master key is needed again.

In one alternative embodiment if any derivatives yield non matching results at an entirely new set of derivatives may be created at with an entirely new site specific characteristic selection order and newly selected characteristics from the disjoint sets. Creating an entirely new set of derivatives would be in place of simply correcting or replacing non matching derivatives as described in .

The information handling system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected such as using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the information handling system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The information handling system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single information handling system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions such as software can be embedded. The disk drive unit also contains space for data storage. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the information handling system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media. The network interface device can provide connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or other network.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to store information received via carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. Furthermore a computer readable medium can store information received from distributed network resources such as from a cloud based environment. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

