---

title: Free stream intake with particle separator for reverse core engine
abstract: A gas turbine engine has a fairing and an air intake that includes an air inlet embedded within the fairing for supplying free stream atmospheric air to a gas generator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644537&OS=09644537&RS=09644537
owner: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
number: 09644537
owner_city: Farmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131230
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional application Ser. No. 61 781 840 filed Mar. 14 2013.

The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of NASA Cooperative Agreement Contract No. NNX11AB35A and Sub Contract No. MIT PW Subaward No. 5710002937 awarded by NASA.

The present disclosure relates to a free stream inlet for a propulsion system which includes a gas generator which is a reverse core engine.

Typical multi spool turbofan engines include a nested core in which a high pressure or core spool is nested inside a low pressure spool. Such a nested core engine includes in axial sequence a low pressure compressor a high pressure compressor a combustor section a high pressure turbine and a low pressure turbine. The high pressure compressor is connected to the high pressure turbine with a high pressure shaft that extends through the combustor section. The low pressure compressor is connected to the low pressure turbine with a low pressure shaft that extends through the high pressure shaft. Increases in efficiency of the turbofan allow for the core to be reduced in size such as by having a smaller diameter. The low pressure shaft however cannot be reduced in diameter because the rotational speeds of the low pressure spool are limited by critical speed. The shaft critical speed is proportional to the shaft diameter and inversely proportional to the shaft length. Thus decreasing the shaft diameter with reduced core sizes is not possible without reducing the shaft length if the same critical speed is desired. Thus reductions in the core size yields compromises in the high pressure spool to accommodate low pressure spool shaft diameters. For example the size and weight of high pressure spool rotor disk need to be increased to accommodate openings for larger low pressure shaft sizes. As such there is a need for improving engine architectures to allow for among other things decreased core sizes resulting from more efficient turbofan engines.

There has been proposed a gas turbine engine comprising a fan drive gear system a low spool connected to the fan drive gear system and a high spool disposed aft of the low spool. The low spool comprises a rearward flow low pressure compressor disposed aft of the fan drive gear systems and a forward flow low pressure turbine disposed aft of the low pressure compressor. The high spool comprises a forward flow high pressure turbine disposed aft of the low pressure turbine a combustor disposed of aft of the high pressure turbine and a forward flow high pressure compressor disposed aft of the combustor.

One issue faced by designers of these new engine architectures is incorporation of the new engine architecture into an aircraft.

In accordance with the present disclosure there is provided a gas turbine engine which broadly comprises a fairing and an air intake that includes an air inlet embedded within the fairing for supplying free stream atmospheric air to a gas generator.

In another and alternative embodiment the air intake further comprises a curved duct attached to the air inlet.

In another and alternative embodiment the particle separation outlet communicates with a channel within the fairing and a particle outlet located at a trailing edge of the fairing.

In another and alternative embodiment the engine includes an exterior wall surrounding at least a portion of the engine core where the fairing has an upper surface a lower surface an outer edge and an inner edge and the inner edge is blended into the exterior wall surrounding at least the portion of the engine core.

Further in accordance with the present invention there is provided an aircraft which broadly comprises a fuselage a propulsion system having a pair of gas generators located at a tail section of the fuselage each of the gas generators comprising a reverse engine core the propulsion system further having a propulsor section with a pair of free turbines and a pair of fans driven by the free turbines the free turbines being driven by a fluid generated by the gas generators and a pair of fairings mounted to the tail section of the fuselage and an air intake embedded within each of the fairings to supply free stream atmospheric air to the gas generators.

In another and alternative embodiment the aircraft further comprises the propulsor section having a central axis and the gas generator having a longitudinal axis at an angle to the central axis.

In another and alternative embodiment each of the air intakes comprises an air inlet and a curved duct connected to the air inlet.

In another and alternative embodiment each of the air intakes has a particle separator and an outlet for discharging solid particles.

In another and alternative embodiment each of said air intakes has a channel within each of the fairings communicating with the outlet.

In another and alternative embodiment each of the fairings has an inner edge an outer edge an upper surface and a lower surface.

In another and alternative embodiment the aircraft further comprises a wall surrounding a least a portion of each of the gas generators and the inner edges of the fairings blending into the wall.

Further in accordance with the present disclosure there is provided a propulsion system which broadly comprises a propulsor section having a free turbine and a fan driven by the free turbine a gas generator for generating a fluid for driving the free turbine an air intake for supplying free stream air to the gas generator and the air intake comprising an inlet a curved duct connected to the air inlet and an outlet connected to an inlet of the gas generator.

In another and alternative embodiment the propulsion system further comprises the free turbine and the fan rotating about a first axis and the gas generator having a longitudinal axis at an angle to the first axis.

In another and alternative embodiment the propulsion system further comprises a plenum for delivering the fluid to the free turbine and the plenum communicating with an outlet of the gas generator.

In another and alternative embodiment the air intake delivers the free stream air to a compressor section of the gas generator.

Other details of the free stream intake for a reverse core engine are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.

Referring now to the propulsion system may comprise a pair of propulsors which are gas turbine engines. Each propulsor has a propulsor section which has a free turbine a fan having a plurality of fan blades driven by the free turbine and a plurality of fan exit guide vanes . The free turbine and the fan rotate about a central axis .

The propulsion system further has a pair of gas generators . Each of the gas generators has a longitudinal axis or central axis which is at an angle to the central axis . Each gas generator is a reverse engine core and includes a compressor section having one or more stages such as a low pressure compressor and a high pressure compressor a combustion section having one or more combustors and a turbine section having one or more stages such as a low pressure turbine and a high pressure turbine. The low pressure compressor in the gas generator is driven by a low pressure turbine via a low pressure spool and a high pressure compressor in the gas generator is driven by a high pressure turbine via a high pressure spool. Each gas generator delivers combusted fuel to a respective one of the free turbine via a plenum to drive the respective free turbine . Each free turbine drives the respective fan .

Referring now to the gas generator may be housed within a bi fi wall . The gas generator may be fully or partially housed within the bi fi wall . An air inlet device to be discussed below may be used to provide free stream air to an inlet of each gas generator .

Referring now to the aerodynamic fairing has an outer edge an inner edge a leading edge and a trailing edge . The aerodynamic fairing further has an upper surface and a lower surface . The upper and lower surfaces and may be shaped to generate lift. As shown in the inner edge of the fairing may be blended into the bi fi wall surrounding the core of the gas generators .

As shown in each air inlet may be embedded or shrouded within a respective one of the aerodynamic fairings . The air inlet may have an intake for receiving free stream air a curved duct for supplying the free stream air to a low pressure compressor section of a respective one of the gas generators . The air inlet further has a particle separation outlet which allows solid particles in the free stream air to exit the air inlet . The particle separation outlet may communicate with a channel having an outlet in the aerodynamic fairing . In operation the free stream air entering the air inlet may have particles of solid material such as dust ice etc. These particles tend not to follow the curvature of the air inlet and continue on straight into the particle separation outlet . The intake may be located at the leading edge or may be spaced from the leading edge .

The air inlet may be used to supply atmospheric air to a respective gas generator via a duct which causes the atmospheric air to impinge upon the low pressure compressor section of the gas generator .

There has been provided a free stream intake for a reverse core engine. While the intake has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof other unforeseen alternatives modifications and variations may become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is intended to embrace those alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims.

