---

title: Presenting action menus in viewing panes
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and software for implementing enhanced menu presentation technology. In at least one implementation, a user interface to a personal information service is presented by a suitable computing system. The user interface includes a viewing pane and an information panel in which various personal information items may be organized. In response to a selection of any of the personal information items for viewing, content associated with the item is presented in the viewing pane. In addition, in response to an identification of an action group that includes multiple ones of the personal information items, an action menu is presented in at least a portion of a space in the user interface occupied by the viewing pane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495075&OS=09495075&RS=09495075
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09495075
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130517
---
Aspects of the disclosure are related to computing hardware and software technology and in particular to action menus in personal information applications.

Personal information services provide users with effective and convenient ways to communicate with others and to manage their personal information. Users typically interact with personal information services through user interfaces provided by associated personal information applications such as email applications calendar applications and task management applications as well as combinations and variations thereof. Some representative personal information applications and services include Microsoft Outlook Outlook Web App OWA Hotmail Gmail and Yahoo Mail as well as others.

When engaged with a personal information service a user may interact with various personal information items via a user interface to the service. Examples of such items include emails contacts calendar items tasks and the like. In a typical scenario a user s personal information items are stored in a personal information database such as a mailbox that is accessed as the user interacts with the application.

Most personal information applications present personal information items in a variety of panels. In an email example a user interface includes an inbox panel in which emails are arranged while content associated with any of the emails can be viewed in a viewing panel. Other panels are possible such as a navigation panel in which various folders are presented along with representations of other application modules.

In addition most personal information applications include an action menu in which several action features are available. Any of the action features can be applied to any one or more of the items in an inbox that are identified as subject to the action features. In a brief example a user may select a group of emails and then select a delete feature from an action menu to delete the group of emails. In another example a user may select a group of emails and then select a move feature from an action menu to move the group of emails.

Action menus are typically presented in a horizontal arrangement aligned above the inbox and viewing panels. However they may also be accessed by performing a right click or some other discrete step after having selected one or more items.

Provided herein are systems methods and software for implementing enhanced menu presentation technology. In at least one implementation a user interface to a personal information service is presented by a suitable computing system. The user interface includes a viewing pane and an information panel in which various personal information items may be organized. In response to a selection of any of the personal information items for viewing content associated with the item is presented in the viewing pane. In addition in response to an identification of an action group that includes multiple ones of the personal information items an action menu is presented in at least a portion of a space in the user interface occupied by the viewing pane.

This Overview is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Technical Disclosure. It should be understood that this Overview is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Implementations disclosed herein enable enhanced menu presentation technology whereby an action menu may be presented in the same space in a user interface as that occupied by a viewing pane. This advance enables the placement of an action menu in a place that may otherwise be under used in various circumstances. In addition such placement may optionally make available other space in a user interface previously occupied by an action menu. This may be especially beneficial in the context of tablet devices mobile phones and other systems with relatively limited display space.

In a brief operational example a personal information application provides a user interface to a personal information service. The personal information application or at least a portion thereof drives a suitable computing platform to present the user interface to the personal information service. The user interface includes a viewing pane and an information panel in which to organize various personal information items such as emails contacts events tasks and the like.

Any of the personal information items may be selected and viewed. When one of the items is selected content associated with the item is presented in the viewing pane. The selection of another item without persisting the selection of the first item results in content associated with the other item to be presented in the viewing panel possibly substituting for the content previously presented in the viewing panel.

However it may be the case that an action group is identified that includes multiple items. In response to the identification of the action group an action menu is presented in at least a portion of a space in the user interface occupied by the viewing pane. This may entail for example displaying the action menu within the viewing pane in an overlaid manner with respect to any content that may be viewable in the pane. However this may also entail ceasing the presentation of the content and presenting the action menu against a relatively blank canvas in the viewing pane. The entirety of the action menu may be presented in the viewing pane although portions of it may overlap with other regions of the user interface such as with portions of an inbox or some other panel.

An action group may be identified when the selection of one item occurs in such a manner that the selection of a previously selected item or items persists and are in a selected state simultaneously. The items may thus be understood to be concurrently selected. Items can be concurrently selected in a variety of ways including checking a selection box associated with each item holding a particular key the control key for example when selecting items or providing some other input or indication that two or more items are to be concurrently selected with respect to each other.

In various scenarios the action menu may include various action features applicable to each of the multiple items. An action corresponding to an action feature selected from the action menu can be applied to the multiple items. Which action features are included in an action menu may vary based on conditions present when a concurrent selection is made. The action features can be selected from a number of possible action features the determination of which may be based on characteristics of each of the multiple items. Examples of characteristics of each item that may factor into the selection of action features include the attachment status of each item such as the presence of an attachment or some other status the folder location of each item and the identity of contacts associated with each item as well as any other characteristic.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates various features and functionality that may be experienced through a user interface when an enhanced menu process illustrated in is implemented. The enhanced menu process may be embodied in software executable by any suitable computing system or collection of systems employing a suitable computing architecture of which computing architecture in is representative. The user interface and its associated features and functionality may be rendered surfaced or otherwise presented and experienced when the software is executed. illustrates a service environment in which a personal information service may be provisioned and delivered while illustrate another enhanced menu process and related features and functionality.

In particular illustrates an operational scenario involving a user interface to a personal information service in an implementation. User interface provides an interface through which a user may interact with various aspects of a personal information service. Examples of user interface include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces web based user interfaces gesture based user interfaces and object oriented user interfaces as well as any other type of user interface combinations or variations thereof.

User interface includes an application bar which may be used to present various tools information features or other aspects of a personal information service. In some implementations for example application bar may include a search box notifications or other aspects of a personal information application. User interface also includes a navigation panel an information panel and a viewing pane .

Each of these and other elements may be considered to occupy or define a space in user interface . Thus navigation panel occupies a space in user interface information panel occupies a space in user interface and viewing pane occupies a space in user interface . User interface may include other elements in addition to or in place of those disclosed. In addition some of the elements in user interface are optional and may be omitted including application bar and navigation panel .

Navigation panel may be any panel or other graphical representation with which a user may interact to navigate a personal information application or service. Navigation panel may be used to for example navigate the various modules that may be included in an application navigate data and associated data structures or navigate in some other manner. In this implementation navigation panel includes several folders representative of folders in which a user s personal information items may be organized. Examples of folders include but are not limited to an inbox trash sent folder and the like. Folders are provided merely for exemplary purposes and it may be appreciated that fewer folders or more folders are possible as well as other elements through which a user may navigate a personal information application or service and associated information.

Information panel may be any panel or other graphical representation within which personal information items may be organized and presented. Examples include an inbox a calendar and a task list. In operational scenario information panel includes items each of which are representative of emails events tasks or any other type of personal information item that can be presented in an information panel. Information panel may be used to for example navigate the various information items that may be presented therein such as by scrolling up or down a list selecting an item for individual viewing or selecting multiple items as an action group on which to take collective action. In this implementation items are drawn from folder which is illustrated as selected in navigation panel .

Viewing pane is representative of any graphical element in which content associated with a selected item can be presented and viewed. Other features and functions may be possible through viewing pane such as the ability to respond to items or otherwise interact with content that may be presented. In general an individual item can be selected from information panel and its corresponding content presented in viewing pane . With respect to operational scenario item is selected. Accordingly its content is presented in viewing pane .

User interface may be presented when for example a personal information application or other software associated with the personal information service is executed while the various features and functionality illustrated by operational scenario may be experienced when enhanced menu process is implemented in such software. Examples of software in which enhanced menu process may be implemented include but are not limited to personal information applications browser applications client side programs and server side programs as well as any other type of software program combination of programs or variations thereof. The execution of any such program or collection of programs by any suitable computing system or systems drives the system or systems to operate as described herein for enhanced menu process . Accordingly the following discussion of operational scenario makes reference parenthetically to the steps included in and illustrated with respect to enhanced menu process .

In operation a user may interact with user interface to interact with a personal information service and more particularly with various personal information items provided as part of the service. Such interaction includes for example sending and receiving emails scheduling events monitoring tasks and so on. Accordingly user interface is presented to the user and includes information panel and viewing pane step .

While interacting with the personal information service a user may select or otherwise identify any of the items that are presented in information panel . Upon selecting one of the items its associated content is presented in viewing pane step . Operational scenario assumes for exemplary purposes that item is selected and its content presented in viewing pane .

While the selection of item persists or is otherwise maintained another item is selected. The concurrent selection of two or more items may be considered an identification of an action group. The identification of the action group triggers the presentation of action menu in viewing pane step . Action menu may be presented entirely within viewing pane or it may overlap with some other element of user interface . In some scenarios viewing pane may persist such that action menu is presented in an overlaid manner. However in other scenarios viewing pane may be removed from view and action menu presented where viewing pane had been. In either case action menu may be considered to be presented in at least a portion of a space in user interface occupied by viewing pane .

Action menu may include various action features the selection of which causes a corresponding action to be applied to the personal information items in the action group. For example action menu may include a delete feature the selection of which would cause item and item to be deleted. In another example action menu may include a move feature the selection of which would cause item and item to be moved to a different location. Other types of action features and corresponding actions are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

Variations of enhanced menu process are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example other steps in addition to those described herein may be performed. In addition variations on the steps described herein are possible including initiating a particular function or feature. In an example enhanced menu process as discussed herein includes the steps of presenting content in a viewing pane and presenting an action menu among other steps. A variation of each could include initiating the presentation of content and initiating the presentation of an action menu. It may be appreciated that other variations are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to computing architecture is representative of an architecture that may be employed in any computing apparatus or system or collections thereof to suitably implement all or portions of enhanced menu process or variations thereof and optionally all or portions of the personal information application referred to with respect to . Computing architecture may be employed in for example desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers notebook computers mobile computing devices cell phones media devices and gaming devices as well as any other type of physical or virtual computing machine and any combination or variation thereof. Computing architecture may also be employed in for example server computers cloud computing platforms data centers any physical or virtual computing machine and any variation or combination thereof.

Enhanced menu process may be implemented on a single computing system or may be implemented in a distributed manner. The personal information application may also be implemented on a single computing system or may be implemented in a distributed manner. Enhanced menu process may be integrated with the personal information application but may also stand alone or be embodied in some other application.

Computing architecture includes processing system storage system software communication interface system and user interface system . Processing system is operatively coupled with storage system communication interface system and user interface system . Processing system loads and executes software from storage system . When executed by processing system software directs processing system or other elements of computing architecture to operate as described herein for enhanced menu process or its variations. Computing architecture may optionally include additional devices features or functionality not discussed here for purposes of brevity.

Referring still to processing system may comprise a microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes software from storage system . Processing system may be implemented within a single processing device but may also be distributed across multiple processing devices or sub systems that cooperate in executing program instructions. Examples of processing system include general purpose central processing units application specific processors systems on a chip and logic devices as well as any other type of processing device combination or variation thereof.

Storage system may comprise any computer readable storage media readable by processing system and capable of storing software . Storage system may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of storage media include random access memory read only memory magnetic disks optical disks flash memory virtual memory and non virtual memory magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other suitable storage media. In no case is the storage media a propagated signal. In addition to storage media in some implementations storage system may also include computer readable communication media over which software may be communicated internally or externally.

Storage system may be implemented as a single storage device but may also be implemented across multiple storage devices or sub systems co located or distributed relative to each other. Storage system may comprise additional elements such as a controller capable of communicating with processing system or possibly other systems.

Software may be implemented in program instructions and among other functions may when executed by processing system direct processing system or other elements of computing architecture to operate as described herein for enhanced menu process . For example the program instructions may when executed by processing system direct processing system to initiate presentation of a user interface having an information panel and viewing pane initiate presentation of content associated with a selected item in the viewing pane and initiate presentation of an action menu in a space occupied by the viewing pane.

The program instructions may include various components or modules that cooperate or otherwise interact to carry out enhanced menu process . The various components or modules may be embodied in compiled instructions or interpreted instructions or in some other variation of or combination of instructions. The various components or modules may be executed in a synchronous or asynchronous manner serially or in parallel in a single threaded or multi threaded environment or in accordance with any other suitable programming and execution paradigm variation or combination thereof.

Software may include additional processes programs or components such as operating system software or other application software. Software may also comprise firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions executable by processing system .

In general software may when loaded into processing system and executed or otherwise processed transform a suitable apparatus system or device employing computing architecture overall from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate enhanced menu presentation technology as described herein for each implementation. Indeed encoding software on storage system may transform the physical structure of storage system . The specific transformation of the physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the storage media of storage system and whether the computer storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage as well as other factors.

For example if the computer storage media are implemented as semiconductor based memory software may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the program is encoded therein such as by transforming the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. A similar transformation may occur with respect to magnetic or optical media. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Referring again to through the operation of a suitable computing system implementing enhanced menu process transformations may be performed with respect to user interface . As an example user interface could be considered transformed from one state to another when subject to enhanced menu process or variations thereof. In a first state user interface includes content presented in viewing pane that is associated with a selected item. In response to a creation of an action group an action menu is presented in a space occupied by the viewing pane thereby changing user interface to a second different state.

It should be understood that computing architecture is generally intended to represent an architecture on which software may be deployed and executed in order to implement enhanced menu process or variations thereof and optionally all or portions of a personal information application. However computing architecture may also be suitable for any computing system on which software may be staged and from where software may be distributed transported downloaded or otherwise provided to yet another computing system for deployment and execution or yet additional distribution.

Communication interface system may include communication connections and devices that allow for communication with other computing systems over a network or collection of networks. Examples of connections and devices that together allow for inter system communication may include network interface cards antennas power amplifiers RF circuitry transceivers and other communication circuitry. The connections and devices may communicate over communication media to exchange communications with other computing systems or networks of systems such as metal glass air or any other suitable communication media. The aforementioned communication media network connections and devices are well known and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system may include a mouse a voice input device a touch input device for receiving a touch gesture from a user a motion input device for detecting non touch gestures and other motions by a user and other comparable input devices and associated processing elements capable of receiving user input from a user. Output devices such as a display speakers haptic devices and other types of output devices may also be included in user interface system . In some cases the input and output devices may be combined in a single device such as a display capable of displaying images and receiving touch gestures. The aforementioned user input and output devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system may include associated user interface software executable by processing system in support of the various user input and output devices discussed above. Separately or in conjunction with each other and other hardware and software elements the user interface software and devices may support a graphical user interface a natural user interface or the like. In operation user interface system is capable of presenting a user interface to a personal information service such as user interface illustrated in . As such a user may interact with a personal information service and associated applications through user interface by way of user interface system .

Examples of application platforms and include but are not limited to desktop computers work stations laptop computers notebook computers tablet computers mobile phones personal digital assistances media devices gaming devices routers and any other physical or virtual computing machine or combinations and variations thereof capable of implementing at least one of a variety of personal information applications. Service platform may be any computing system or collection of computing systems capable of implementing all or portions of a personal information service while service platform may be any computing system or collection of computing systems capable of implementing all or portions of a personal information service .

Application platforms and may each be any computing apparatus system device or collections thereof that employ a computing architecture suitable for implementing personal information applications and respectively the execution of which results in the rendering or presentation of user interfaces and respectively. Computing architecture referred to with respect to is one such representative architecture. Personal information applications and may each be any version or variety of personal information application. Examples include but are not limited to locally installed and executed applications streamed applications web based applications that execute at least in part within the context of a browser application mobile applications mobile web based applications that execute at least in part within the context of a mobile browser application or any other application type variation or combination thereof.

User interfaces and may each be any type of software interface that enables a user to interact with a personal information service. The execution of personal information applications and by application platforms and results in the presentation of user interfaces and by way of their respective user interface systems of which user interface system is representative. Examples of user interfaces and include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces web based user interfaces gesture based user interfaces and object oriented user interfaces as well as any other type of user interface combinations or variations thereof. User interface or variations thereof is representative of user interfaces and .

Personal information applications and may each be embodied in program instructions that when executed by application platforms and respectively direct each to operate as described herein for enhanced menu process discussed with respect to . The program instructions may take the form of compiled object code interpreted scripts or any other suitable form of program instructions that may be executed directly or indirectly by an application platform as well as any suitable variation or combination thereof. Examples of personal information applications include but are not limited to Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird Lightening Open Xchange Microsoft Outlook Web App Microsoft Outlook Web App for mobile devices Outlook.com Gmail and Microsoft Outlook for mobile devices as well as any other suitable personal information application variation or combination thereof.

Service platform and service platform may each include any computing apparatus system device or collections thereof that employ a computing architecture suitable for implementing personal information service and personal information service respectively. Computing architecture referred to with respect to is one such representative architecture. Examples include server computers cloud computing platforms data centers and any physical or virtual computing machine as well as any variation or combination thereof. Examples of personal information service and personal information service include but are not limited to Microsoft Exchange Microsoft O365 Hotmail Outlook.com and Gmail as well as any other information exchange service combination or variation thereof capable of operating as described herein.

In operation any of applications platforms and may communicate with service platform or service platform over communication network to facilitate the exchange of information between personal information applications and and personal information service and between personal information application and personal information service . Service platform and service platform may also communicate over communication network to facilitate the exchange of information. For example information may be exchanged to facilitate the sending and receiving of email the creation and monitoring of calendar events the creation and monitoring of tasks and to facilitate the searching of email events and tasks as well as for other reasons. Such communication is generally well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Communication between any of the elements contemplated in may occur in accordance with various communication protocols such as the Internet protocol IP IPv4 IPv6 etc. the transfer control protocol TCP and the user datagram protocol UDP as well as any other suitable communication protocol variation or combination thereof. Communication network may be representative of a network or collection of networks over which the elements contemplated in may exchange information such as an intranet the Internet a local area network a wide area network a wireless network a wired network or any combination or variation thereof. Communication network may include connections devices and communication media such as metal glass air or any other suitable communication media over which information may be exchanged. The aforementioned communication media network connections protocols and devices are well known and need not be discussed at length here.

The manner and format in which information is exchanged may vary. In some implementations a personal information application may exchange information with a personal information service in accordance with various protocols such as IMAP internet message access protocol POP post office protocol SMTP simple mail transfer protocol OWA Outlook Web App webmail protocol various other webmail protocols various proprietary protocols HTTP hypertext transfer protocol REST representational state transfer Web Socket DOM Document Object Model HTML hypertext markup language CSS cascading style sheets HTML5 XML extensible markup language JavaScript JSON JavaScript Object Notation and AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML as well as any other suitable protocol variation or combination thereof.

Operating in accordance with enhanced menu process a client device application platforms running a personal information application personal information applications renders a user interface user interfaces though which a user may interact with a personal information service in order to for example send and receive email schedule events communicate with contacts or evaluate task as well as for many other possible purposes. The user interface may include a viewing pane and an information panel in which to organize various personal information items such as emails contacts events tasks and the like.

A user may navigate away from the selected item to select other items for viewing. The content displayed in the viewing pane would then change to that of the newly selected item. However the user may also select another item or items concurrently with the initially selected item. In response to concurrently selecting the multiple items or identifying an action group an action menu is presented in at least a portion of a space in the user interface occupied by the viewing pane. In fact the rendering of the action menu may occur directly in response to the selection of the second item.

In a brief example a list of emails may be presented in an information panel. A user may select a check box associated with one email and then select a second check box associated with a second email. In response to selecting the second box an action menu is rendered in a viewing panel in which content associated with any of the various emails may be been presented. The action menu includes various action features the subsequent selection of which results in a corresponding action being carried out with respect to the concurrently selected emails.

While the preceding example made reference to two emails it may be appreciated that the rendering of the action menu can occur in response to when a third or fourth or any incremental item is concurrently selected. Moreover while an action menu may be rendered in response to the selection of a second third or other incremental item the action menu may persist as additional items are added to the action group by selection.

In accordance with enhanced menu process a client device application platforms running a personal information application personal information applications renders or otherwise presents a user interface user interfaces though which a user may interact with a personal information service in order to for example send and receive email schedule events communicate with contacts or evaluate task as well as for many other possible purposes step . The user interface may include a viewing pane and an information panel in which to organize various personal information items such as emails contacts events tasks and the like.

A user may navigate away from the selected item to select other items for viewing. The content displayed in the viewing pane would then change to that of the newly selected item. However the user may also select another item or items concurrently with the initially selected item. The concurrent selection of the multiple items is detected step and characteristics of each of the multiple items in the action group are examined step . Which action features are included in an action menu are identified based on the characteristics step . The attachment status the folder location and the identity of contacts in each item are examples of characteristics that may be considered when selecting action features to include in an action menu.

The action features included in the action menu may change dynamically as additional items are added to an action group. For example an initial set of items selected for a group may each include an attachment in which case an attachment related feature may be included in the action menu. The subsequent selection of an item that does not include an attachment may then cause the attachment related feature to be removed from the menu.

Once the action features are identified the action menu is presented in at least a portion of a space in the user interface occupied by the viewing pane. In fact the rendering of the action menu may occur directly in response to the selection of the second item.

Referring now to one operational scenario A is illustrated in which the folder associated with various items in an action group factors into which action features are selected for an action menu. In operational scenario A folder is selected and may be assumed to be an inbox. Accordingly items presented in information panel are items located in the inbox. In addition item and item are selected for inclusion in an action group.

In response to item and item being identified for inclusion in the action group various characteristics are examined to determine which action features to include in an action menu. The action menu is then presented in a viewing pane. In this scenario item and item are both located in the inbox. As such action menu presented in viewing pane includes a move feature a delete feature and a flag feature. These features are provided merely for exemplary purposes. Other features in addition to or in place of these features are possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure. Selection of the move feature would trigger a move operation with respect to item and item while selection of the delete feature would delete the selected items and selection of the flag feature would flag the items for later attention.

The folder selected in operational scenario B differs relative to the folder selected in operational scenario A to illustrate for exemplary purposes how the folder associated with each item in a group may effect which action features are included in an action group. In this scenario folder a trash folder is selected and items presented accordingly. Item item and item are then selected for inclusion in an action group. Action menu is responsively presented with two action features included therein a restore feature and a delete feature. Other features in addition to or in place of these features are possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure. Selection of the restore feature would restore the selected items to the inbox while selection of the delete feature would permanently delete the selected items.

Operational scenario A illustrated in is representative of a scenario in which the attachment status associated with various items in an action group factors into which action features are selected for an action menu. In operational scenario A folder is selected again representing an inbox. Accordingly items presented in information panel are items located in the inbox. In addition item and item are selected for inclusion in an action group both of which are illustrated as having an attachment.

In response to item and item being identified for inclusion in the action group various characteristics are examined to determine which action features to include in an action menu. The action menu is then presented in a viewing pane. In this scenario item and item both have an attachment. Action menu presented in viewing pane therefore includes a move feature a delete feature and an upload feature. Other features in addition to or in place of these features are possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure. Selection of the move feature would trigger a move operation with respect to item and item while selection of the delete feature would delete the selected items. Selection of the upload feature would allow the attachments in both items to be uploaded to a service or some other storage location.

The items selected in operational scenario B differ slightly relative to the items selected in operational scenario A to illustrate for exemplary purposes how the attachment status of each item in a group may effect which action features are included in an action group. In this scenario folder inbox is selected and items presented accordingly. Item and item are selected for inclusion in an action group only one of which has an attachment. Action menu is responsively presented with three action features included therein a move feature a delete feature and a flag feature. Other features in addition to or in place of these features are possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure. The action features included in action menu in operational scenario B relative to those included in operational scenario A differ due to the attachment status of each item. Because only one of the items selected in operational scenario B includes an attachment the upload feature is not included in the action menu.

In operational scenario A and operational scenario B illustrate how the type of each item included in an action group may effect which action features are included in an action menu.

In operational scenario A folder is selected and item item event item and event are displayed accordingly. Event and event are then selected for inclusion in an action group. Because each item in the action group is an event such as an event invitation or the like the action features included in the action menu relate to event features. Accordingly action menu is presented in viewing pane including a cancel feature an accept feature and a delete feature. The subsequent selection of any one of the cancel accept and delete features would cause all of the events to be canceled accepted or deleted respectively. Other features in addition to or in place of these features are possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In operational scenario B item item and event are selected for inclusion in an action group. It is assumed for illustrative purposes that item and item are not events but rather may be emails tasks or the like. The action features identified for inclusion in action menu differ from those identified in operational scenario A because of the heterogeneous nature of the items.

The functional block diagrams operational sequences and other diagrams provided in the Figures are representative of exemplary architectures environments and methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosure. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation methods included herein may be in the form of a functional diagram operational sequence or flow diagram and may be described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methods are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

The included descriptions and figures depict specific implementations to teach those skilled in the art how to make and use the best option. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects have been simplified or omitted. Those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from these implementations that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple implementations. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific implementations described above but only by the claims and their equivalents.

