---

title: Method and apparatus for anonymously acquiring service information
abstract: An approach for enabling a user to anonymously access customized service information from a plurality of providers is described. A secure estimation platform retrieves personal information associated with a user based on a first request from the user. The platform then anonymizes the personal information and generates a second request for the estimate for the service based on the anonymized personal information. The second request is then transmitted to one or more providers of the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09419946&OS=09419946&RS=09419946
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09419946
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
Personalized services such as healthcare insurance medical procedures or the like are known to many consumers to be costly. Moreover the cost of the same service can vary widely across different providers e.g. hospitals care facilities agencies . To address this issue some consumers employ cost estimation tools to obtain estimates for the cost of services for a given region locale. Unfortunately the estimates are often generic and not customized to the specific history preferences or criteria of the consumer.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling a user to anonymously access customized service information from a plurality of providers.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to the accessing of information from medical service providers such as hospitals medical care facilities or the like it is contemplated the approach described herein may be used in connection with any service where personalized private information is required to be exchanged between a requesting user and the provider of said service. This may include for example services offered by insurance providers financial service providers investment service providers housing providers entertainment service providers educational service providers etc.

Personalized services such as healthcare insurance medical procedures or the like are known to many consumers to be costly. Moreover the cost of the same service can vary widely across different providers e.g. hospitals care facilities agencies . For example in the case of medical services one hospital can charge significantly more for a certain procedure than another hospital despite the fact those hospitals are within the same region. Hence consumers have very little authority in addressing such disparities given the lack of standards for services and the lack of transparency in billing procedures. It is not uncommon for the patient even one with insurance to not know what they owe until after the service is performed or how to decipher the billing statement.

Consequently some consumers employ cost estimation tools to obtain estimates for the cost of services for a given region locale. For example the consumer may refer to a healthcare estimator application or website to obtain estimates of general services and procedures for hospitals within their city. Unfortunately the estimates are often generic as they only reflect the average cost at best of said services rather than the specific cost for the inquiring consumer. Moreover the information provided is not customized to the specific medical history of the consumer their current insurance provisions of unique preferences factors that impact the actual cost and availability of a given service.

To address this problem the system of enables users e.g. consumers to perform an inquiry for personalized services i.e. those requiring the exchange of personal sensitive information about the user to enable completion of the service on an anonymous basis. By way of example the anonymity refers to means of inquiry of one or more provider access systems of various service providers wherein only anonymized private sensitive information regarding the user is presented to the service provider. Still further the anonymity pertains to means of accessing user historical data such as electronic medical records or current third party provider records such as insurance information in a manner that protects user privacy. Hence it is noted that the secure estimation platform may be configured to interact with the provider access systems referred to herein as provider access systems one or more third party records databases for housing historical or current information regarding the user etc. by way of anonymous information exchange and data acquisition.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform is configured to interact with an estimation application of the respective user devices via a communication network e.g. service provider network . The estimation application referred to herein as estimation application may be a standalone executable browser based utility or the like for receiving user input. The inputs are received as one or more fields per a user interface generated by the application . Inputs may include for example an inquiry for a specific service to be performed or data representing a particular region location of the user. The input may include the specification of one or more user preferences for narrowing refining the search results including a service provider ranking preference a cost range preference a location preference etc. Still further the input may also include sensor data as collected by the sensors of the respective user devices . This may include location information temporal information and other contextual information regarding the user of the device .

Once the input is collected from the user via the user device the estimation application transmits the input to the secure estimation platform . Under this scenario the input serves as search criteria and requirements data for enabling performance of a query by the secure estimation platform . Hence the secure estimation platform processes the request to initiate retrieval of estimates that match the criteria.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform may be implemented as a managed or hosted solution or platform configured to receive and subsequently process the requests. For example the secure estimation platform may be a cloud based solution that is insulated from but has secure access to data maintained by the provider access systems . In addition the secure estimation platform may securely retrieve third party records associated with a user based on the request. Alternatively the secure estimation platform may be distinct from the cloud infrastructure but accessed via the cloud for facilitating the retrieval of estimates. Per this approach the estimates are therefore returned to the cloud infrastructure by the secure estimation platform for subsequent retrieval by a requesting user device .

It is noted that any implementation of the secure estimation platform may be employed for use in connection with the embodiments herein including software hardware or firmware based implementations of said solution as well as remote or locally hosted platform versions. Regardless of the implementation which may vary per the requirements of the provider of the secure estimation platform the platform may be configured to maintain profiles regarding one or more registered users. In addition profiles regarding the one or more providers of the access systems may also be maintained. This ensures the secure estimation platform remains independent of the network to which the provider of the third party records or provider access systems are configured.

In the case of a user based profile profile may specify one or more user preferences regarding the services desired by the user. For example in the case of a medical service the preferences may include hospital or care facility ranking preferences e.g. only 3 stars or above location preferences provider types e.g. hospitals clinics specialty care facilities service types e.g. primary care medical specializations procedure types . As another example the user profile may also specify general contact information regarding the user as well as insurance carrier and policy details e.g. carrier contact information coverage limitations in out of network coverage criteria payment preferences and other contextual information regarding the user. It is noted that the user profile may be generated during registration of the user for access to the secure estimation platform . This may also correspond to the occurrence of downloading or activation of the estimation application to the respective user devices of the user.

In the case of a provider based profile the profile may specify one or more preferences of a registered service provider. This may include for example the network location of the provider access systems from which relevant information for generating estimates are to be acquired. As another example the profile may specify various service types provider details marketing information service performance restrictions or policies etc. for use in supporting user queries. It is noted that the provider profile may be generated at the time of registration of the provider for access to the secure estimation platform . Under this scenario in the case of hospital service providers different hospitals may register with the platform per a service provider oriented registration process versus a user oriented registration process.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform references the user profile of the requesting user in response to receipt of a request. Based on the criteria specified within the request the secure estimation platform determines the nature of the request e.g. the type of medical service or procedure required . This may include for example associating a keyword provided as input by the user with a specific genre industry service type or other label definition element. It is noted that any known data mapping techniques data tagging referencing or other information association techniques may be performed.

In addition the platform may also reference the user profile of the user to identify any requirements and or preferences. For example a user having limited access to transportation may specify a preference for only service providers within 5 miles of their present location. Under this scenario the platform may rely on location information collected via the one or more sensors referred to herein as sensors for determining an anchor point for fulfillment of the request. As another example the user may specify a preference for only hospitals ranked above a certain threshold e.g. 4 out of 5 stars or that have high user review ratings. It is noted that the secure estimation platform may be configured to automatically refer to the user profile for requirements preferences the input specified per the request or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform may also retrieve data from one or more third party records databases in response to the request. The third party records may also be referenced via the profile or alternatively retrieved based on the type of or nature of the request. For example in the case of a user seeking estimates for a specific type of medical procedure the secure estimation platform may retrieve insurance information associated with the user from their insurance carrier. Similarly the platform may access electronic medical records pertaining to the user e.g. a medical information bureau report based on a reference identifier specified within the profile . Retrieval of said information may be acquired from the third party records database in contrast to inclusion of the data as part of the profile . This separation enables decoupling of the profile from the record for maintaining a level of data privacy. In addition the secure estimation platform anonymizes the data for the purpose maintaining anonymity of the user as the third party records are retrieved. It is noted that the user profile may include one or more policies and or agreements for opting to share anonymous data associated with the user via the secure estimation platform including the sharing of said requirements preferences.

By way of example the secure estimation platform may submit a request for access to the electronic medical records of the user to the server maintaining said records based on a unique identifier of the user. This may include a social security number or patient identifier value. The request may be submitted agnostically to the server housing such that no reference is made to the request type requirements criteria etc. as submitted by the user via the estimation application . Once the medical records are found the secure estimation platform anonymizes the incoming data based on any known or still developing data standardization data extraction or cleansing scheme. This may include for example removing masking or replacing any personal sensitive or identifying information related to the user as contained within the medical record. Still further the anonymization procedure may include standardizing various fields of the medical record for optimal subsequent processing by the secure estimation platform in association with the initial user request.

Once received the secure estimation platform processes the profile the specified submitted user inputs relevant data pulled from the emergency medical records insurance records etc. to identify a one or more service providers that align with the preferences and requirements of the user. This may include employing the use of a search algorithm query procedure or any known or still developing data mining and acquisition techniques. Based on the results the secure estimation platform then submits a request for estimate information to the provider access systems of the relevant health care providers. It is noted that the estimate request is limited to only those service providers e.g. hospitals that best satisfy the user request such as to within a predetermined threshold of affinity. It is also noted that the estimate request is directed to only those service providers that are registered with the secure estimation platform e.g. participating service providers .

In one embodiment the estimate request is submitted in anonymous form such that no identifying information regarding the user may be associated with the third party record e.g. electronic medical record insurance information banking information as directed to the provider access system . As such the service provider is able to generate an estimate proposal quote or the like that is best suited for the user based on relevant contextual details regarding the user e.g. medical issues age background without knowledge of the user s identity.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform receives the estimates from the access systems of the relevant participating services providers. The secure estimation platform then transmits the estimate to the estimation application of the requesting user device . This transmission corresponds to initiating of an application programming interface API at the user device per the application for enabling presenting of the estimates. It is noted that the secure estimation platform may interact with the provider access systems to coordinate the timing and delivery of the estimates. This may include for example ensuring the receipt of information from all participating access systems per a request initiating resubmissions for estimates and packaging of the estimates for presentment to the platform for presentment at a user device . Of note the secure estimation platform may interact with any number of provider access systems for receiving any number of estimates.

In one embodiment the estimates may be rendered to a user interface of the estimation application in various forms. For example the estimates from the different providers may be presented in a side by side manner for enabling the user to easily compare the estimates and associated features thereof. The estimates may include cost information regarding the service to be performed availability information for indicating one or more dates times for performance of the service procedural details and the like. In addition the estimates may include contact information regarding the service provider background information regarding the service provider marketing information service provider ratings and any information deemed relevant to addressing the requirements and preferences of the user. It is noted that presentment of the estimates as a side by side comparison supports convenient user review of relevant information for evaluating various service provider offerings.

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform may also initiate the arranging of or selection of a given service to be performed in response to presentment of the estimates. This may include for example receiving an input for indicating a selection of a particular estimate to be scheduled to be performed. In the case of a medical service when the user decides to schedule an appointment with a provider the secure estimation platform may initiate contact with the provider access system or an internal scheduling system of the provider. The platform then transfers relevant user information including the preferred date and contact credentials of the user to the provider accordingly. In addition the user may opt to enable transmission of their medical record to the service provider. The scheduling procedure may be performed by way of direct signal communication between the secure estimation platform and an access system .

In one embodiment the secure estimation platform may also generate one or more recommendations for the user based on the requirements and preferences third party record information contextual information regarding the user or a combination thereof. For example based on the medical history of the user the secure estimation platform may recommend that a user consider a care facility that specializes in treatment pertinent to the user s history despite a higher rating of another hospital. As another example based on the insurance information related to the user the secure estimation platform may recommend that a user consider an out of network specialist with a cost structure for a given service that is similar to an in network non specialist. The recommendations provided may vary based on the preferences and requirement of the user the level of sensitivity of the secure estimation platform to contextual conditions established by the user the availability of providers etc. It is noted that the recommendations may be presented either prior to accessing of the one or more estimates or afterwards thus supporting the user s ability to direct the outcome of the estimate as well as their ability to interpret the results.

In yet another embodiment the secure estimation platform also generates reports regarding a service as performed. For example the secure estimation platform may detect an updating of the user s electronic medical record or may receive billing details from the provider in response to performance of a medical procedure. The platform may further audit the billing records to determine if any discrepancies exist. Under this scenario the secure estimation platform may generate a discrepancy report for presenting any possible billing errors. In addition the report may provide feedback information to the user for indicating what a typical billing statement for the same service provider procedure or region is. It is contemplated that the user may generate customized reports by way of a configuration interface of the secure estimation platform .

It is noted that in addition to maintaining anonymity of the requesting user the secure estimation platform may also operate in accordance with known privacy policies and regulations. For example the electronic medical records or other third party records may be acquired and maintained in accordance with known regulations such as the health insurance portability and accountability act HIPAA . Hence the standardization procedure performed by the platform is performed in a manner that maintains compliance standards. This further supports the ability of the user to receive on demand customized estimates regarding a service without requiring the user to provide any non anonymized information to the service provider.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

In certain embodiments user devices the secure estimation platform and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system SS network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In addition the secure estimation platform also accesses profiles data from a profile database the database maintaining information pertaining to users or service providers that subscribe to the secure estimation platform . Also the secure estimation platform may also access third party records such as electronic medical records insurance information and other private or sensitive information pertaining to a user. It is noted that modules may access the various databases and for performing several of its functions.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the secure estimation platform . In addition the authentication module authenticates service providers for interaction with the secure estimation platform i.e. for enabling the provisioning of information regarding their services. By way of example the authentication module receives a request from a user to subscribe to the service for enabling some benefit . The subscription process may include from the perspective of the user completing of an online registration form. Similarly the service provider may complete a registration form. In addition the registrants may download an estimation application to their respective devices. Still further the registrant may establish various preferences and settings to be maintained as profile data .

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Registration data for respective subscribers which contains pertinent user or device profile data may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

Still further the authentication module may also be configured to receive requests from various devices for activation of an estimate. By way of this approach having authenticated a device the authentication module alerts the provider matching module of the request. In one embodiment the provider matching module determines which service provider access system is best suited for or matches the estimation request. This includes processing the request to determine one or more requirements or preferences specified by the user. In addition the provider matching module may interpret the request type e.g. the nature of the medical procedure as well as access the profile associated with the user to identify any established preferences e.g. hospital ranking preferences .

The provider matching module also processes sensor data received from the requesting user device including location data temporal data or other contextual information. Contextual information may be processed to determine which service provider matches a location condition or user time availability condition. Still further in one embodiment a record access module is called upon in connection with the provider matching module to access third party records associated with the user. This may include for example pulling of the record from the database anonymously wherein an anonymization module pulls relevant data from the third party record based on one or more anonymization rules and or schemas.

The provider matching module processes the profile the specified submitted user inputs relevant data pulled from the third party records e.g. electronic medical records insurance records and the context information to identify which service providers align with the preferences and requirements of the user. By way of example the provider matching module may execute a search algorithm query procedure or any known search procedure for performing the matching. Based on the results the secure estimation platform then submits a request for estimate information to the provider access systems of the relevant health care providers. It is noted that the estimate request is limited to only those service providers e.g. hospitals that best satisfy the user request such as to within a predetermined threshold of affinity. Also the estimate request is submitted in anonymous form such that no identifying information regarding the user may be associated with the estimate request as directed to the provider access system .

In one embodiment the recommendation module receives the estimates from the access systems of the relevant participating services providers. The secure estimation platform then transmits the estimate to the estimation application of the requesting user device via the communication interface . In addition the recommendation module may generate one or more recommendations for the user based on the requirements of the user the user preferences or the estimate results returned by the different matching provider access systems . The recommendations provided may vary based on the preferences and requirement of the user the level of sensitivity of the secure estimation platform to contextual conditions established by the user the availability of providers etc.

In another embodiment the discrepancy reporting module generates reports regarding a service performed by a provider. For example the discrepancy reporting module may detect an updating of the user s electronic medical record or may receive billing details from the provider in response to performance of a medical procedure. Based on this the discrepancy reporting module may generate a discrepancy report for presenting any possible billing errors. In addition the report may provide feedback information to the user for indicating what a typical billing statement for the same service provider procedure or region is. The report may be transmitted to the user device by way of the communication interface .

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for rendering a registration interface or configuration interface of the secure estimation platform . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface during registration of a user or service provider for access to the platform . The user interface module may initiate the execution of various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the application of the user devices thus enabling the display of graphics primitives.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the secure estimation platform and the estimation application . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the secure estimation platform over the network .

The above presented modules and components of the secure estimation platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the secure estimation platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the estimation application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform or combination thereof.

In step of process the secure estimation platform receives a first request from a user for an estimate for a service. As noted previously the first request may be initiated by processing sensor information associated with the device to determine a need for the service. In steps and the platform retrieves personal information associated with the user and then anonymizes the personal information. It is noted that the first request may specify one or more user provided inputs for indicating the request type or one or more user preferences and or requirements. The first request may therefore establish one or more service providers that may match a desired estimate.

Per step the secure estimation platform generates a second request for the service based on the anonymized personal information. In another step the platform further transmits the second request to one or more providers of the service. It is noted that the second request may correspond to submission of requests for estimates from one or more service providers. In step the platform selects the one or more providers based on criteria specified in the first request wherein the estimate is representative of cost information availability information type of service information or a combination thereof.

In step or process the secure estimation platform receives one or more responses to the second request from the one or more providers wherein the one or more responses include service cost information service availability information type of service information or a combination thereof. In another step one or more responses to the user are presented as the estimate. As noted previously the responses are rendered to an interface of the user device such as in accordance with a side by side comparison. This supports convenient analysis of the various offerings of the different service providers by the user. In addition multiple service providers are able to compete against one another for fulfillment of the user request.

In step the secure estimation platform receives an input from the user for selecting at least one of the one or more providers. This corresponds to selection of one of the service providers as presented. In another step the platform schedules an appointment for the service with the selected at least one of the one or more providers based on the input. Per step the platform further transmits at least a portion of the personal information the anonymized personal information or a combination thereof to the selected at least one of the one or more providers based on the input. It is noted therefore that the platform facilitates the immediate and seamless arranging of the service as a further means of convenience for the user.

In step of process the secure estimation platform retrieves billing information for the service from the selected at least one of the one or more providers. The billing information is based on performance of a selected service by a service provider. In another step the secure estimation platform audits the billing information based at least in part on the estimate historical service information historical provider information or a combination thereof. Based on the audit the platform identifies one or more billing errors one or more fraudulent charges one or more deviations from expected costs or a combination thereof.

In an estimation application features various selection options and fields for enabling user input. A query input field is presented for enabling the user to submit a text based request for a particular service. For example in the case where the user wants to inquire about medical service providers that specialize in ankle injuries the user may enter the keywords ankle injury into the field . Alternatively a category search button may be selected by the user for performing a category based search of providers that may specialize in knee related injuries. While not shown the category search may invoke an additional menu or interface for presenting a categorized listing of medical specialties or categories.

The user may also be presented with various preference options for activating or specifying one or more preferences. For example the user may select a checkbox to permit the usage of current location information in performing a request search. In addition the user may also select a checkbox to permit the use of their private medical information for enabling processing of the request. This may correspond to an opt in procedure wherein the electronic medical record of the user is allowed to be retrieved by the secure estimation platform on an anonymous basis.

Still further another checkbox may be presented for selection for enabling the user to activate an existing user profile. Under this scenario the existing profile may indicate one or more service provider preferences including a preferred hospital rating ranking preferred location radius facility type preferences etc. It is noted that activation of the profile enables the secure estimation platform to account for existing preferences of the user as well as any additional input requirements rendered via the application .

Once the input is provided the user may then select the GO action button to initiate submission of the request. This causes the estimation application to update the interface view to present a status of the request as shown in . By way of example a notification message is presented to indicate that the platform is searching for providers that match the request as well as anonymizing the user data for security purposes. The user is also presented with a CANCEL action button for cancelling the request if desired.

In a results interface is rendered to the user. Via this interface the user is presented with various options and to choose from in response to the request for providers that handle ankle injuries. Under this scenario the options are presented in a side by side comparison format for indicating various details regarding the different providers. The details include the name and contact information for the hospital e.g. . Also presented is an advertising caption for indicating the specialty or niche of the different service providers e.g. . Price estimates e.g. are also presented along with availability information e.g. for indicating a relative cost and date time that the ankle injury service can be fulfilled. As noted the cost and availability information is generated based at least in part on known medical history and details for the user thus enabling a more accurate estimate to be rendered. Ranking information is also presented e.g. for each service provider.

Upon review the user has the option of selecting a particular service provider to address the ankle injury by activating the SELECT action button e.g. 431 corresponding to the particular service provider. Alternatively the user may refine the search by selecting the refine search link .

In the user may also schedule their preferred service directly from the results interface . For example the user may activate the availability information link of a given service provider option to invoke a calendar view . The calendar view may present the user with various dates and times that are available for scheduling the ankle injury care appointment. Once the user selects a date and time activation of the SELECT action button causes the secure estimation platform to submit the request to the chosen service provider. As a result the provider access system of the selected service provider may place the user in the internal scheduling system of the hospital e.g. Hospital A in this case as well as facilitate submission of the electronic medical records and insurance information for that user.

It is further contemplated that the check in procedure for the user may be optimized upon arrival by enabling the use of near field communication or other wireless information exchange at the provider site. For example having facilitated the sharing of their medical and insurance information in advance via the estimation application the user may tap a NFC tag at the check in desk of the provider to facilitate electronic signature and verification. As another option the user may recall a reservation confirmation receipt as delivered to the user device at the time of scheduling and present this reservation to the receptionist at the front desk for scanning. The scanning procedure may be performed in connection with an authentication procedure for validating the check in of the user in connection with the original request submission.

In upon completion of the service the user may be subsequently presented with a reporting interface of the estimation application . Alternatively the report may be presented as a document and rendered to the user in the form of a flat file email text message etc. Under this scenario the report includes a message for indicating that the user may have been overbilled for their service as performed by Hospital A. The report also includes information for indicating the estimated amount for the service as originally quoted versus that which was actually billed to the user. In response to this information the user may then initiate a call or send an email to the service provider by selecting the CALL or EMAIL action buttons and respectively. Alternatively the user may select an INFO action button to request or view more information regarding the discrepancy i.e. an itemized billing list for indicating all of the charges accessed to the user.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable secure anonymous and convenient access to useful information regarding services offered by different service providers. By way of example the system presented herein support the rendering of customized personalized estimates that reflect the requirements preferences and contextual and historical characteristics of the user. In addition one or more service providers may employ the user of the system as a means of reaching consumers and competing in the marketplace.

The processes described herein for enabling a user to anonymously access customized service information from a plurality of providers may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable a user to anonymously access customized service information from a plurality of providers. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

