---

title: Segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device
abstract: Methods and systems of segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device are disclosed. In one embodiment, a biographical information is obtained from a vocational collateral such as a business card. In this embodiment, a method and system includes extracting a biographical data from a digital identifier of the vocational collateral. The method and system includes assigning at least one of an access privilege and a security privilege to the biographical data extracted from the digital identifier. The method and system further includes storing the biographical data comprising at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege in a repository of a cloud computing environment accessible to a number of client devices through a network connection. Finally, the method and system includes permitting the number of client devices access to the biographical data based on the access privilege and/or the security privilege.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856044&OS=08856044&RS=08856044
owner: 
number: 08856044
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130323
---
This disclosure relates generally to segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device. In one example embodiment to a method of extracting biographical data from a digital identifier of a vocational collateral such as a business card and assigning an access privilege to the vocational collateral.

A business card is a type of vocational collateral bearing information concerning an individual or a company indicated on the business card. The business card may be exchanged when one individual meets another individual in the context of a face to face meeting. The business card may be printed with black text on a small white card and or may include a visual marker e.g. a logo of an organization .

A text on the business card may be printed in small and hard to read font sizes. Such constraints may adversely affect an individual s ability to recognize and or recall information on the business card. For example the individual may be in a meeting or on a conference call and may need to reference a phone and or an email address of a contact in a timely fashion. This individual may pull out the business card of the contact but may have difficulties reading the phone number and or the email address listed on the business card. Moreover the individual may have to shuffle through a stack of business cards just to locate the relevant business card. Worse yet the individual may have lost the business card of the contact or may have left the business card in a different article of clothing. As such the individual may never form and or fortify a relationship with the contact. As such the individual s productivity may decline and the organization employing the individual may lose money because of a lost opportunity.

Methods and systems of segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device are disclosed. In one aspect a method includes extracting a biographical data from a digital identifier of a vocational collateral. In this aspect the digital identifier is at least one of a quick response QR code a scan code a bar code a graphic code and a matrix code. The method also includes assigning at least one of an access privilege and a security privilege to the biographical data extracted from the digital identifier through an assignment module. The method further includes storing the biographical data having at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege in a repository of a cloud computing environment accessible to a plurality of client devices through a network connection. Finally the method includes permitting the plurality of client devices access to the biographical data based on at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege.

In this aspect the biographical data may comprise a name a job title a contact information an employer description a salary an education history a technical knowledge a personal picture an employment history and or a job related data of an owner of the vocational collateral. The method may also include recognizing the digital identifier using an optical capture device when extracting the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral. In this aspect the optical capture device may be a smartphone a mobile telephone a thin client device a QR code scanner a bar code scanner and or a web camera.

Furthermore the method may include storing the biographical data having at least the access privilege and or the security privilege in a repository of a local computing environment. The method may also include assigning the access privilege to the biographical data based on a monetary value of the biographical data calculated using a valuing module. The security privilege may also be assigned based on a sensitivity of the biographical data. In this aspect the access privilege and the security privilege may also be assigned based on a criteria established by a third party administrator.

The method may further include generating a client interface portal through a portal interface module to allow a client device access to the biographical data and or an additional biographical data stored in the repository. In this aspect the client interface portal may be a web based portal a server portal and or a mobile application portal. The method may also include translating a textual data of the vocational collateral from a language other than the English language to a translated data that is the English language equivalent of the textual data.

In another aspect a method includes capturing a visual pattern of the vocational collateral using an optical capture device encoding the visual pattern of the vocational collateral into a coded proxy of the vocational collateral creating a placeholder object associated with the coded proxy storing the coded proxy and its associated placeholder object in a repository of a cloud computing environment accessible to a plurality of client devices through a network connection permitting an owner of the vocational collateral to populate the placeholder object with a submitted biographical data assigning at least one of an access privilege and a security privilege to the submitted biographical data through an assignment module and permitting the plurality of client devices access to the submitted biographical data based on at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege.

The method may also include matching the coded proxy with the visual pattern of the vocational collateral when the visual pattern of the vocational collateral is captured again by the optical capture device. In this aspect the optical capture device may be a smartphone a mobile telephone a thin client device a QR code scanner a bar code scanner and or a web camera.

The method may also include storing the submitted biographical data having at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege in a repository of a local computing environment. In this aspect the submitted biographical data may comprise a name a job title a contact information an employer description a salary an education history a technical knowledge a personal picture an employment history and or a job related data of an owner of the vocational collateral

The method may also include assigning the access privilege to the submitted biographical data based on a monetary value of the submitted biographical data calculated using a valuing module. The security privilege may also be assigned based on a sensitivity of the submitted biographical data. The access privilege and the security privilege may also be assigned based on a criteria established by a third party administrator.

The method may also include generating a client interface portal through a portal interface module to allow a client device access to the submitted biographical data and an additional submitted biographical data stored in the repository. In this aspect the client interface portal may be one of a web based portal a server portal and or a mobile application portal. Finally the method may also include translating a textual data of the vocational collateral from a language other than the English language to a translated data that is the English language equivalent of the textual data through a translation module.

The methods disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Methods and systems of segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device are disclosed. Example embodiments as described below may be used to provide several methods to obtain and store biographical information from a vocational collateral such as a business card. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an optical capture device extracting a biographical data from a digital identifier of a vocational collateral and storing the biographical data in a repository of a cloud computing environment according to one or more embodiments. In one embodiment a method includes extracting the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral . The method may include extracting the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral by recognizing the digital identifier using the optical capture device .

In one or more embodiments the digital identifier is at least one of a quick response QR code see a scan code see a bar code see a graphic code see and a matrix code see . In one or more embodiments the vocational collateral may comprise a business card a contact card a resume a cover letter and or a business related collateral.

In one or more embodiments the optical capture device may be at least one of a smartphone a tablet device a mobile telephone a thin client device a QR code scanner a bar code scanner and a web camera. More specifically the smartphone may be at least one of an Android compatible smartphone an iOS compatible smartphone and or a Windows compatible smartphone comprising a light emitting element and at least one of a charge coupled device CCD camera sensor and a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS camera sensor. The mobile telephone may be an Android compatible mobile telephone an iOS compatible mobile telephone and or a Windows compatible mobile telephone comprising a light emitting element and at least one of a charge coupled device CCD camera sensor and a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS camera sensor. Moreover the tablet device may be an Android compatible tablet device an iOS compatible tablet device and or a Windows compatible tablet device comprising at least one of a CCD camera sensor and or a CMOS camera sensor.

In one embodiment the optical capture device may extract the biographical data from the digital identifier by illuminating the digital identifier using a light emitting element of the optical capture device . The optical capture device may then measure the amount of reflected light through at least one of the CCD camera sensor and the CMOS camera sensor. The light waveforms may then be converted from an analog form to a digital form which may then be decoded by a decoding application into a decoded data. In one embodiment the decoding application may be resident in the optical capture device . In another embodiment the decoding application may be resident in the server of the cloud computing environment .

In one embodiment the decoded data may be the biographical data . In another embodiment the decoded data may be a uniform resource locator URL address that directs a web browser application of the optical capture device to retrieve a webpage comprising the biographical data . In yet another embodiment the decoded data may be a URL address that directs a mobile application of the optical capture device to retrieve the biographical data from the repository of the cloud computing environment and or another repository resident on a cloud computing environment. In this embodiment the optical capture device may then send the biographical data to the repository of the cloud computing environment . The biographical data may be sent to the repository of the cloud computing environment through a wireless and or wired network connection.

The wireless network connection may comprise the bi directional transference of data through at least a portion of a Personal Communication Service PCS frequency standard a Wireless Broadband WiBro standard a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX standard a 4GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard an Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB standard a High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA standard a High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA a Generic Access Network GAN a Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA standard a Freedom of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA standard a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA standard an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE standard a Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 standard a General Packet Radio Service GPRS standard a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standard and any other radiofrequency standard that may be used to effect the disclosed embodiments.

In addition the wireless network connection may comprise the bi directional transference of data through at least a portion of a wireless wide area network WWAN connection a satellite network connection an optical or infrared connection a near field communication connection and a wireless connection abiding by the rules of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE Standard 802.11. Furthermore the wired network connection may comprise the bi directional transference of data through at least a portion of a local area network LAN connection a wide area network WAN connection a cable high speed connection and or a fiber optic connection.

In one embodiment the biographical data is stored in the repository of the cloud computing environment . In this embodiment the repository may refer to a non volatile memory resident in at least one of the server and another server in the cloud computing environment . In another embodiment the repository may refer to a database stored in the non volatile memory resident in at least one of the server and another server in the cloud computing environment . In yet another embodiment the repository may refer to a file path in the sever and or a file path in another server in the cloud computing environment that can be used to access the data stored in at least one of a database a memory and a storage of a server in the cloud computing environment . While illustrates the repository being resident in the server it may be possible for any of the other servers depicted in to contain the repository and for any of the servers depicted in to be the server .

In addition depicts the cloud computing environment comprising four servers coupled to one another with one of the servers being the server containing the repository . However in practice the cloud computing environment may comprise a multitude of servers ranging from four 4 to five 5 to six 6 . . . to N number of servers. Moreover the number of client devices may be more or fewer than the number of client devices illustrated in . In one or more embodiments each of the client devices may be at least one of a smartphone a mobile telephone a tablet device a laptop computer a desktop computer and any other thin or thick client device. Finally in keeping with the tenets of cloud computing the cloud computing environment may divide up at least one of a processing function a storage function a memory function and or a networking connection function to one or more of the servers comprising the cloud computing environment . Such functions may be rapidly assigned and re assigned based on the demands of the client devices served. Moreover while the servers in including the server are shown as separate entities it may be possible for one or more of the servers to implement commands as a single server for purposes of optimizing available resources. In addition it may be possible for one server to act as a conduit between two or more servers.

In one embodiment the cloud computing environment may be a public cloud computing environment where the cloud infrastructure may be shared by multiple providers and or organizations and supports the needs of those providers. In another embodiment the cloud computing environment may be a private cloud environment where the cloud infrastructure may be operated solely for the benefit of one organization. In yet another embodiment the cloud computing environment may be a hybrid cloud computing environment where multiple cloud computing environments may be bound together by standard protocols that enable data and or application portability.

In a further embodiment the cloud computing environment may be a cloud computing environment offered as part of a cloud platform as a service PaaS Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud ECM or Oracle PaaS . In this embodiment the cloud computing environment may be maintained by the service provider while the applications and or modules used to implement the various embodiments may be deployed in the cloud computer environment .

In one embodiment the method also includes assigning at least one of an access privilege and a security privilege see to the biographical data extracted from the digital identifier through an assignment module see . As depicted in the assignment module may be stored in a memory of the server and may be written into the memory of the server prior to execution by a processor of the server . The method further includes storing the biographical data having at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege in the repository of the cloud computing environment accessible to the plurality of client devices through the network connection described heretofore. Finally the method includes permitting the plurality of client devices access to the biographical data based on at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege assigned.

In one or more embodiments the biographical data may comprise a name see a job title see a contact information see a salary see an employer description see an education history see a technical knowledge see a personal picture an employment history and or a job related data of an owner of the vocational collateral .

In an additional embodiment the server may send an electronic message to the owner of the vocational collateral to ask the owner to submit additional biographical information not present in the vocational collateral . Such additional biographical information may comprise at least one of a salary see an employer description see an education history see and a technical knowledge see .

Reference is now made to which illustrates the optical capture device capturing a visual pattern of the vocational collateral and storing the information in the repository of the cloud computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment a method includes capturing the visual pattern of the vocational collateral using the optical capture device . In this embodiment the visual pattern may be a shape outline of the printed material on the vocational collateral . For example the visual pattern of a business card may be the rectangular outline of the business card along with an outline of any text and or designs printed on the face of the business card. In this embodiment the optical capture device may capture the visual pattern of the vocational collateral by illuminating the vocational collateral using the optical capture device s light emitting element. The optical capture device may then measure the amount of light reflected off of the vocational collateral through at least one of the optical capture device s CCD camera sensor and CMOS camera sensor. The light pattern captured by the camera sensor may be the visual pattern .

In this embodiment the method also involves encoding the visual pattern of the vocational collateral into a coded proxy . This may be done by converting the analog light pattern captured by the camera sensor into a digital signal correlated with the analog light pattern. In one embodiment this digital signal is the coded proxy . The coded proxy may also be converted into a bar code a scan code a matrix code a QR code a graphic code and or an alphanumeric code. The optical capture device may then send the coded proxy to the repository of the cloud computing environment through the wired and or wireless connection described heretofore.

In this embodiment the method also involves the server of the cloud computing environment creating a placeholder object associated with the coded proxy . The server then stores the coded proxy and its associated placeholder object in the repository of the cloud computing environment . The placeholder object may comprise at least one of a parameter marker an empty data field an empty table field and an empty data object of a database stored in the repository of the cloud computing environment . The plurality of client devices may also access the cloud computing environment through the wireless and or wired network described heretofore.

In this embodiment the method also involves permitting an owner of the vocational collateral to populate the placeholder object with a submitted biographical data . The submitted biographical data may comprise a name see a job title see a contact information see a salary see an employer description see an education history see a technical knowledge see a personal picture an employment history and or a job related data of an owner of the vocational collateral .

An owner of the vocational collateral may populate the placeholder object with the submitted biographical data by inputting a set of biographical information into a user interface portal generated by the server . In one embodiment the user interface portal may be presented as a web portal a web browser a mobile application an administration portal and or a server portal. In another embodiment the user interface portal may be the client interface portal depicted in . The owner of the vocational collateral may input the submitted biographical data when prompted to do so by an electronic message generated by the server . The electronic message may inform the owner of the vocational collateral that a visual pattern of the owner s vocational collateral e.g. business card has been entered into the repository and that additional information may be required to associate the vocational collateral with the owner.

In this embodiment the method also includes assigning at least one of an access privilege and a security privilege see to the submitted biographical data through an assignment module see and permitting the plurality of client devices access to the submitted biographical data based on at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege assigned see . As depicted in the assignment module may be stored in a memory of the server and may be written into the memory of the server prior to execution by a processor of the server .

Finally the method may include matching the coded proxy with the visual pattern of the vocational collateral when the visual pattern of the vocational collateral is captured again by the optical capture device . This matching may be accomplished by a matching algorithm that compares the stored coded proxy with a visual pattern captured.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of the server in the cloud computing environment of according to one or more embodiments. Such a diagram is only one exemplary depiction of the server and is not intended to suggest any limitations as to the use and functional layout of the server. As discussed above the server may be any of the servers depicted in the cloud computing environment of and or . The methods disclosed herein may be implemented as machine executable instructions presented as program modules being executed by a processor of the machine. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components logic and or data structures that perform particular tasks or carry out particular abstract data types.

In one embodiment the server comprises a memory a processor an input output interface all coupled by a bus . In particular the memory may comprise an assignment module a portal interface module a translation module and the repository . The server may also communicate with one or more external devices including a display unit and an input unit both of which may be interfaced with the server through the input output interface .

In one embodiment the translation module may translate a textual data of the vocational collateral from a language other than the English language to a translated data that is the English language equivalent of the textual data. The translation module may translate the textual data by delivering the textual data to a third party server comprising a translation application programming interface API e.g. Google Translate API and calling the results of such a translation into a memory of the server .

In this embodiment the assignment module may assign an access privilege and a security privilege to the biographical data stored in the repository . While the access privilege and the security privilege are depicted as abstract representations in it is understood that the access privilege and the security privilege may comprise any of a meta data assigned to the biographical data to indicate an access level and or a security level for the biographical data an attribute of a data field associated with the biographical data an extended attribute of a data field associated with the biographical data a permission level of a data field associated with the biographical data a certificate of a data field associated with the biographical data an attribute of a data object associated with the biographical data an extended attribute of a data object associated with the biographical data a permission level of a data object associated with the biographical data and or a certificate of a data object associated with the biographical data .

Moreover the assignment of the access privilege and the security privilege may be implemented through a number of server side programming languages including but not limited to PHP ASP.NET Ruby Perl Python ColdFusion Markup Language and or Java.

In an additional embodiment the assignment module may also assign an access privilege and a security privilege to the submitted biographical data stored in the repository not show in . Similarly the access privilege and the security privilege may comprise any of a meta data assigned to the submitted biographical data to indicate an access level and or a security level for the submitted biographical data an attribute of a data field associated with the submitted biographical data an extended attribute of a data field associated with the submitted biographical data a permission level of a data field associated with the submitted biographical data a certificate of a data field associated with the submitted biographical data an attribute of a data object associated with the submitted biographical data an extended attribute of a data object associated with the submitted biographical data a permission level of a data object associated with the submitted biographical data and or a certificate of a data object associated with the submitted biographical data .

Furthermore the method may include assigning the access privilege to the biographical data based on a monetary value of the biographical data calculated using a valuing module not shown in and assigning the security privilege based on a sensitivity of the biographical data see . In this embodiment the access privilege may also be assigned based on a criteria established by a third party administrator see and the security privilege may be assigned based on a sensitivity of the biographical data see .

Reference is now made to which is a table view of the biographical data stored in the repository of the cloud computing environment of according to one or more embodiments. In one or more embodiments the table includes data fields for the following entries a name a job title a contact information a salary an employer description an education history and a technical knowledge .

In one embodiment the biographical data may comprise an individual by the name of J. Doe who is the Vice President of Acme Wheel Company and has a contact information as listed in the table. In this embodiment J. Doe has a salary of 100 000.00 and works for a Fortune 1000 company. In this embodiment the assignment module may assign the access privilege of free to J. Doe s name and the access privilege of paid standard to J. Doe s job title . The assignment module may also assign the access privilege of paid standard to the contact information. Moreover the assignment module may assign an access privilege of paid premium to J. Doe s salary of 100 000.00. Finally the assignment module may assigns access privileges of free paid standard and paid premium to information concerning J. Doe s employer description education history and technical knowledge .

In this embodiment an access privilege of free denotes that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field for free. An access privilege of paid standard denotes that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field for a standard price and an access privilege of paid premium denotes that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field for a premium price.

In one or more embodiments the access privilege is assigned based on an access algorithm of a valuing module that may be a part of the assignment module and may be stored in a memory of the server or read into the memory of the server . The access algorithm may assign a designated weight value to at least one of the name the job title salary the employer description the education history and the technical knowledge . The access algorithm may take into account the designated weight value and calculate the access privilege based on a weighted average of the designated weight value assigned to one or more combinations of the name the job title the salary the employer description the education history and the technical knowledge .

In this embodiment the assignment module may also assign a security privilege of low sensitivity to J. Doe s name a security privilege of medium sensitivity to J. Doe s job title a security privilege of medium sensitivity to J. Doe s contact information a security privilege of high sensitivity to J. Doe s salary a security privilege of low sensitivity to J. Doe s employer description a security privilege of medium sensitivity to J. Doe s education history and a security privilege of high sensitivity to J. Doe s technical knowledge .

In this embodiment a security privilege of low sensitivity denotes that the information stored in that particular data field is not sensitive and or is likely public knowledge. It may also denote that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field without restrictions and or having to satisfy low level data and or network security requirements. A security privilege of medium sensitivity denotes that the information stored in that particular data field is somewhat sensitive and or is not public knowledge. It may also denote that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field with limited restrictions and or have to satisfy mid level data and or network security requirements. A security privilege of high sensitivity denoted that the information stored in that particular data filed is extremely sensitive and is not public knowledge. It may also denote that at least one of the client devices can access the information stored in that particular data field only after satisfying high level data and or network security requirements.

In one or more embodiments the security privilege is assigned based on a data sensitivity algorithm that may be a part of the assignment module and may be stored in a memory of the server or read into the memory of the server . The data sensitivity algorithm may assign a sensitivity weight value to at least one of the name the job title salary the employer description the education history and the technical knowledge . The data sensitivity algorithm may take into account the sensitivity weight value and calculate the security privilege based on a weighted average of the sensitivity weight value assigned to one or a combination of the name the job title the salary the employer description the education history and the technical knowledge .

The access algorithm and the data sensitivity algorithm may assign different weighted values to data contained in the same data field e.g. job title salary employer description etc. based on a ranking factor that ranks the information contained in such data fields. For example the biographical data may comprise an individual by the name of A. Water who is a chef at Chez P. Restaurant and may include contact information as listed in the table. In this embodiment A. Water has a salary of 40 000.00 works for a private restaurant and has the educational background and technical knowledge indicated in the table. In this example embodiment the assignment module may assign the access privilege of free to A. Water s name and the access privilege of free to Water s job title of chef. This may be the case even though the assignment module may have assigned an access privilege of paid standard to J. Doe s job title. This difference in assignments may be a result of the ranking factor ranking J. Doe s biographical information as more important than A. Water s biographical information. Other exemplary biographical data entries are also presented in the table in .

In yet another embodiment the set of biographical data in the table may be segmented by a plurality of user accounts. A user gaining access to the repository through one of the client devices may only see vocational collateral that the user has personally inputted into the repository . In this embodiment all of the biographical data stored in the repository may be stored in separate accounts where each account is associated with a unique user.

Reference is now made to which illustrates the client devices of accessing the biographical data stored in the repository through a client interface portal according to one or more embodiments. In one exemplary embodiment the method described heretofore also includes the portal interface module generating the client interface portal to allow a user of at least one of the client devices to access the biographical data and or the submitted biographical data stored in the repository . In this embodiment the client interface portal may be a web browser a web portal a mobile application a mobile portal and or a server portal displayed through a display unit of one of the client devices . Moreover the access privilege and or the security privilege may be assigned by a third party administrator .

In one exemplary scenario depicted in a user logs in to the client interface portal and queries the repository of the cloud computing environment using one of the client devices . In this exemplary scenario the third party administrator has not assigned an access privilege or a security privilege to the biographical data and the user is able to gain access to the biographical data without paying a fee to access this information.

In the other exemplary scenario depicted in a user logs in to the client interface portal and queries the repository of the cloud computing environment using one of the client devices . In this exemplary scenario the third party administrator has assigned both the access privilege and the security privilege to the biographical data and the user is unable to gain access to the biographical data without paying a fee to access this information. Under this scenario the third party administrator may have assigned the biographical information with the access privilege of paid premium and the security privilege of high sensitivity. In this instance the user may submit a fee to gain the necessary access privilege and may submit certain additional information to meet the security threshold set by the third party administrator .

Reference is now made to which illustrates the various types of digital identifiers that can be used as the digital identifier of according to one or more embodiments. In one or more embodiments the digital identifier may be a QR code a scan code a bar code a graphic code and a matrix code . In one embodiment the QR code may be scanned using the methods described herein and using the optical capture device of . In one embodiment the scan code may be a PostNet barcode made popular by the United States Postal Service comprising of evenly spaced bars of two different heights. The scan code may be represented by a series of five bars two tall and three short.

In one embodiment the barcode is Code 39 defined in the American National Standards Institute ANSI standard as USD 3 and 3 of 9. In this embodiment the bar code comprises the digits 0 through 9 the letters A through Z and various punctuation and symbols. The bar code may be of any length and each character of the code consists of 9 elements 5 bars and 4 spaces. Such characters may be separated by an inter character gap which may be the same width as a narrow bar. In another embodiment the bar code is an extended Code 39 which include additional characters that are not normally part of the Code 39 character set e.g. lower case characters and additional symbols . In yet another embodiment the bar code is a code complying by the standards of Code 128. Under this standard the bar code may comprise the digits 0 through 9 the letters A through Z and all standard ASCII symbols. The character of the code consists of 3 bars and 3 spaces and the bars may use an even number of elements and the spaces may use an odd number. In addition the bar code under this standard may comprise a Modulo 103 checksum.

In one embodiment the graphic code may be the QR code embedding a graphic placed in the middle of the coding region. In this embodiment the graphic may be a logo a sign a trademark a service mark and or an identification mark. The size of the graphic may be up to one third the size of the edge wise length of the QR code. The information stored in the graphic code may contain redundancies so partially covered or destroyed codes can be scanned correctly.

In another embodiment the graphic code may be a fixed size MaxiCode comprising a central bulls eye locator and offset rows of hexagonal elements. Under this embodiment the graphic code may be capable of holding up to 93 data characters and may be read using a 2 D laser scanner. In yet another embodiment the graphic code may be a two dimensional bar code complying by the PDF 417 standard. The PDF 417 may store up to 1 800 printable ASCII characters or 1 100 binary characters per symbol. The symbol may be rectangular and the shape of the symbol may be adjusted to some extent by setting the width and allowing the height to expand with the data. It may also be possible to segment large amounts of data into several PDF 147 symbols which may be logically linked. Under this standard the graphic code may be scanned by a laser scanner or a standard charge coupled device CCD or camera reader and software to decode the scan pattern.

In one embodiment the matrix code is a two dimensional code which can store up to 2 000 characters. The code may be in the shape of a square and may store up to 500 numeric characters and 20 ASCII characters. The matrix code may be recognized using a 2 D scanning laser and or a standard CCD camera reader.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary set of operations permitting client device access to biographical data extracted from a digital identifier of the vocational collateral of . In one or more embodiments operation may involve the server extracting the biographical data from the digital identifier through the optical capture device . Operation may involve extracting the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral by recognizing the digital identifier using the optical capture device . In one or more embodiments operation may involve the server assigning the access privilege and the security privilege to the biographical data extracted from the digital identifier through the assignment module . Operation may then include storing the biographical data having the access privilege and the security privilege in the repository of the cloud computing environment accessible to the client devices through a network. In one or more embodiments operation may involve the server permitting the client devices access to the biographical data based on the access privilege and the security privilege .

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary set of operations permitting the client devices access to a submitted biographical data associated with a captured visual pattern of the vocational collateral of . In one or more embodiments operation may involve capturing the visual pattern of the vocational collateral using the optical capture device . In addition operation may involve encoding the visual pattern of the vocational collateral into the coded proxy of the vocational collateral . In one or embodiments operation may then involve creating the placeholder object associated with the coded proxy and operation may involve storing the coded proxy and its associated placeholder object in the repository of the cloud computing environment accessible to the client devices through a network. Furthermore operation may include permitting an owner of the vocational collateral to populate the placeholder object with the submitted biographical data . In one or more embodiments operation may involve assigning the access privilege and the security privilege to the submitted biographical data through the assignment module . Finally operation may include permitting the client devices access to the submitted biographical data based on the access privilege and the security privilege .

The generic computing device may represent various forms of digital computers such as laptops desktops workstations personal digital assistants servers blade servers mainframes and or other appropriate computers. The generic mobile computing device may represent various forms of mobile devices such as smartphones camera phones personal digital assistants cellular telephones and other similar generic mobile computing devices. The components shown here their connections couples and relationships and their functions are meant to be exemplary only and are not meant to limit the embodiments described and or claimed.

The generic computing device may include a processor a memory a storage device a high speed interface coupled to the memory and a plurality of high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface coupled to a low speed bus and a storage device . In one embodiment each of the components heretofore may be inter coupled using various buses and may be mounted on a common motherboard and or in other manners as appropriate. The processor may process instructions for execution in the generic computing device including instructions stored in the memory and or on the storage device to display a graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as a display unit coupled to the high speed interface . In other embodiments multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and or types of memory. Also a plurality of generic computing devices may be coupled with with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers and or a multi processor system .

The memory may be coupled to the generic computing device . In one embodiment the memory may be a volatile memory. In another embodiment the memory may be a non volatile memory. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic and or an optical disk. The storage device may be capable of providing mass storage for the generic computing device . In one embodiment the storage device may be comprised of at least one of a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device a tape device a flash memory and or other similar solid state memory device. In another embodiment the storage device may be an array of the devices in a computer readable medium previously mentioned heretofore computer readable medium such as and or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network and or other configurations.

A computer program may be comprised of instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The instructions may be stored in at least one of the memory the storage device a memory coupled to the processor and or a propagated signal.

The high speed interface may manage bandwidth intensive operations for the generic computing device while the low speed interface may manage lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one embodiment the high speed interface may be coupled to at least one of the memory the display unit e.g. through a graphics processor and or an accelerator and to the plurality of high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards. In the embodiment the low speed interface may be coupled to at least one of the storage device and the low speed bus . The low speed bus may be comprised of a wired and or wireless communication port e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB a Bluetooth port an Ethernet port and or a wireless Ethernet port . The low speed bus may also be coupled to at least one of scan unit a printer a keyboard a mouse and a networking device e.g. a switch and or a router through a network adapter.

The generic computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. In one embodiment the generic computing device may be implemented as a standard server and or a group of such servers. In another embodiment the generic computing device may be implemented as part of a rack server system . In yet another embodiment the generic computing device may be implemented as a general computer such as a laptop computer. Alternatively a component from the generic computing device may be combined with another component in a generic mobile computing device . In one or more embodiments an entire system may be made up of a plurality of generic computing devices and or a plurality of generic computing devices coupled to a plurality of generic mobile computing devices .

In one embodiment the generic mobile computing device may comprise at least one of a mobile compatible processor a mobile compatible memory and an input output device such as a mobile display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The generic mobile computing device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. In one embodiment at least one of the components indicated heretofore are inter coupled using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard.

The mobile compatible processor may execute instructions in the generic mobile computing device including instructions stored in the mobile compatible memory . The mobile compatible processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The mobile compatible processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the generic mobile computing device such as control of user interfaces applications run by the generic mobile computing device and wireless communication by the generic mobile computing device .

The mobile compatible processor may communicate with a user through the control interface and the display interface coupled to a mobile display . In one embodiment the mobile display may be at least one of a Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display TFT LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED display and another appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the mobile display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the mobile compatible processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with the mobile compatible processor so as to enable near area communication of the generic mobile computing device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some embodiments or for wireless communication in other embodiments and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The mobile compatible memory may be coupled to the generic mobile computing device . The mobile compatible memory may be implemented as at least one of a volatile memory and a non volatile memory. The expansion memory may also be coupled to the generic mobile computing device through the expansion interface which may comprise for example a Single In Line Memory Module SIMM card interface. The expansion memory may provide extra storage space for the generic mobile computing device or may also store an application or other information for the generic mobile computing device . Specifically the expansion memory may comprise instructions to carry out the processes described above. The expansion memory may also comprise secure information. For example the expansion memory may be provided as a security module for the generic mobile computing device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of the generic mobile computing device . In addition a secure application may be provided on the SIMM card along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The mobile compatible memory may comprise at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a flash memory and a non volatile memory e.g. a non volatile random access memory NVRAM . In one embodiment a computer program comprises a set of instructions that when executed perform one or more methods. The set of instructions may be stored on at least one of the mobile compatible memory the expansion memory a memory coupled to the mobile compatible processor and a propagated signal that may be received for example over the transceiver and or the external interface .

The generic mobile computing device may communicate wirelessly through the communication interface which may be comprised of a digital signal processing circuitry. The communication interface may provide for communications using various modes and or protocols such as at least one of a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM protocol a Short Message Service SMS protocol an Enhanced Messaging System EMS protocol a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS protocol a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocol Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocol a Personal Digital Cellular PDC protocol a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA protocol a CDMA2000 protocol and a General Packet Radio Service GPRS protocol. Such communication may occur for example through the radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth Wi Fi and or other such transceiver. In addition a GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation related and location related wireless data to the generic mobile computing device which may be used as appropriate by a software application running on the generic mobile computing device .

The generic mobile computing device may also communicate audibly using an audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. The audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of the generic mobile computing device . Such a sound may comprise a sound from a voice telephone call a recorded sound e.g. a voice message a music files etc. and may also include a sound generated by an application operating on the generic mobile computing device .

The generic mobile computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. In one embodiment the generic mobile computing device may be implemented as a smartphone . In another embodiment the generic mobile computing device may be implemented as a personal digital assistant PDA . In yet another embodiment the generic mobile computing device may be implemented as a tablet device .

Various embodiments of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in at least one of a digital electronic circuitry an integrated circuitry a specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs a piece of computer hardware a firmware a software application and a combination thereof. These various embodiments can include embodiment in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications and or code comprise machine readable instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and or computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory and or Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here may be implemented on a computing device having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT and or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a mouse by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback and or tactile feed back and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech and or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here may be implemented in a computing system that comprises at least one of a back end component e.g. as a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface and or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an embodiment of the systems and techniques described here and a combination thereof. The components of the system may also be coupled through a communication network.

The communication network may comprise at least one of a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet . The computing system can comprise at least one of a client and a server. In one embodiment the client and the server are remote from each other and interact through the communication network.

Disclosed is a system of segmented access of remotely stored biographical data to a client device. In one embodiment the system comprises the optical capture device to extract the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral and storing the biographical data in the repository of the cloud computing environment . In one embodiment the repository may be stored in the server of the cloud computing environment . In one embodiment the optical capture device extracts the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral . The optical capture device may also extract the biographical data from the digital identifier of the vocational collateral by recognizing the digital identifier through a light emitting element and at least one of a CCD camera sensor and a CMOS camera sensor.

In one embodiment the server comprises the memory the processor the input output interface all coupled by the bus . In particular the memory may comprise the assignment module the portal interface module the translation module and the repository . The server may also communicate with one or more external devices including the display unit and the input unit both of which may be interfaced with the server through the input output interface .

In one embodiment the assignment module may assign an access privilege and a security privilege to the biographical data stored in the repository . The access privilege may be assigned based on a criteria established by a third party administrator see and the security privilege may be assigned based on a sensitivity of the biographical data see .

In another embodiment the translation module may translate a textual data of the vocational collateral from a language other than the English language to a translated data that is the English language equivalent of the textual data. The translation module may translate the textual data by delivering the textual data to a third party server comprising a translation application programming interface API e.g. Google Translate API and calling the results of such a translation into a memory of the server . In this embodiment the assignment module may assign an access privilege and a security privilege to the biographical data stored in the repository .

An example will now be described in which the various embodiments will be explained in a hypothetical scenario. A hiring manager of a software company by the name of T. Cook may be participating in a career fair to recruit new programmers. A software engineer by the name of B. Gate may hand T. Cook his vocational collateral e.g. his business card having the digital identifier e.g. a QR code . T. Cook then uses the optical capture device e.g. an iPhone smartphone to extract B. Gate s biographical data from the digital identifier . B. Gate s biographical data may then be delivered to the repository e.g. a database of the cloud computing environment to be stored.

The server may then send an electronic message to B. Gate to submit additional information such as his current salary an employer description an education history and or a listing of his technical knowledge to the repository to be included as part of his biographical data . The third party administrator may then assign at least one of the access privilege and the security privilege to B. Gate s biographical data through the assignment module . The third party administrator may assign an access privilege of paid premium to data concerning B. Gate s salary and an access privilege of paid standard to data concerning B. Gate s technical knowledge . The third party administrator may also assign a security privilege of high sensitivity to B. Gate s salary and a security privilege of medium sensitivity to B. Gate s technical knowledge .

Finally the server may grant T. Cook access to B. Gate s biographical data if T. Cook meets certain requirements with regard to his access privilege and his security privilege .

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

It may be appreciated that the various systems methods and apparatus disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and or may be performed in any order.

The structures and modules in the figures may be shown as distinct and communicating with only a few specific structures and not others. The structures may be merged with each other may perform overlapping functions and may communicate with other structures not shown to be connected in the figures. Accordingly the specification and or drawings may be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

