---

title: Systems and methods for automatic generation, registration and mobile phone billing of a pod using third party web page content
abstract: The systems and methods described herein generally relate to a method and system for automatically generating an application pod for a third party through which the third party's content is offered for access, purchase and use by mobile phone users within a community network. More specifically, the systems and methods described herein are directed to an application pod that can be automatically generated based on content and information retrieved from one or more web pages of the third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08682290&OS=08682290&RS=08682290
owner: SMS.ac, Inc.
number: 08682290
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130116
---
This application claims the benefit of priority as a Continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 304 250 filed Nov. 23 2011 and entitled Systems and Methods for Automatic Generation Registration and Mobile Phone Billing of a Pod Using Third Party Web Page Content which in turn claims priority as a Continuation under U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 911 662 filed Oct. 25 2010 and entitled Systems and Methods for Automatic Generation Registration and Mobile Phone Billing of a Pod Using Third Party Web Page Content which in turn claims priority as a Continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 751 538 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 835 720 filed May 21 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Automatic Generation Registration and Mobile Phone Billing of a Pod Using Third Party Web Page Content which in turn claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 802 255 filed May 19 2006 and entitled Automatic Generation Of Application Pod Using Third Party Web Page Content and also claims the benefit as a Continuation In Part CIP under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 516 921 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 826 829 filed on Sep. 6 2006 entitled Automated Billing and Distribution Platform For Application Providers all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if set forth in full.

This application is also related to co pending U.S. patent Application Ser. No. 11 715 401 filed Mar. 8 2007 entitled Automatic Generation of Pod Application and co pending U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 688 714 filed Mar. 20 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Generation Registration and Mobile Phone Billing of a Music Pod System both of the which are incorporated herein for all purposes.

The embodiments described below relate to an automated distribution and billing platform for networked applications and more particularly relates to a micro transaction billing platform through which transactions are conducted for the access and use of networked applications by mobile phone users.

While credit card use and automatic credit card billing is a common way to conduct business transactions in many countries they are not necessarily the best way in some situations. In particular there are many users of the internet that do not have access to a credit card or do not want to use their credit card for an internet based transaction out of security concerns. Many such users most likely have a mobile phone or mobile device and it would be easy and efficient to have a mechanism for billing the user for transactions through the user s pre existing account with the wireless network carrier associated with the user s mobile phone number. In addition the use of a credit card is economically viable only if the transaction amount or a volume of such transactions exceeds a particular amount that depends on the underlying efficiency of the billing and collecting system implemented by the merchant and by the credit card provider. Currently wireless network carriers routinely bill users for small transactional amounts such as a one minute call or portion thereof and are able to bill and collect for these small transactions while making a profit. These small transactions are referred to as micro transactions and in terms of U.S. currency can be as small as a few pennies although larger transactions occur as well.

Retailers or vendors such as internet commercial websites that provide products or services may desire to provide their respective content or services to mobile phone users via the internet or directly through the user s mobile phone and bill the user for such content or services as micro transactions. For example a third party internet website may provide users with access to frequent summaries of sports game scores and news or other premium content for a fixed price per month. Currently a retailer or vendor will find it very difficult and inefficient to bill and collect for such a micro transaction because the retailer vendor would need to negotiate and enter into a contractual relationship with the user s wireless network carrier in order to bill the mobile phone user subscribed to that carrier. The process is further complicated by the fact that the universe of customers with mobile phones use different wireless network carriers. Accordingly the retailer vendor would need to enter into contractual relationships with each of the many different wireless network carriers in order to be able to provide a mobile phone based micro transaction billing option to the desired global market of mobile phone users. A retailer or vendor can try to use billing mechanisms other than wireless network carriers such as prepaid card services web based payment services bank account and credit card billing services and other such external billing mechanisms to support customer transactions. However in such examples the same problem still exists for the vendor retailer because they would still need to have pre existing relationships with all of the various external billing mechanisms that their various customers wish to use for payment of transactions. In addition a retailer vendor often finds it difficult to efficiently market their product service to the users of each of the many different wireless network carriers.

Thus there exists a need for retailers and vendors with networked applications to have the ability to easily market and conduct transactions many of which may be micro transactions with a global market of mobile phone users where the transactions are easily billable through a single intermediate billing platform which can effectuate a transaction through a wide variety of external billing mechanisms on behalf of the retailer vendor thereby eliminating the need for the retailer vendor to establish an individual contractual relationship with each of the external billing mechanisms while providing the retailer vendor with efficient access to the global market.

The systems and methods described herein generally relate to a method and system for automatically generating an application pod for a third party through which the third party s content is offered for access purchase and use by mobile phone users within a community network. More specifically the systems and methods described herein are directed to an application pod that can be automatically generated based on content and information retrieved from one or more web pages of the third party.

In this manner the third party does not need to have the requisite skills and capabilities time or resources to develop an application pod through which to offer the third party s content such as a blog music video text or other digital content to mobile phone users within the community network.

These and other features aspects and embodiments are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

At least portions of the systems and methods described herein can be implemented on a networked computing system via a network such as the Internet. An example of such a networked system is described in . The description of the network and computer based platforms that follows is exemplary. However it should be clearly understood that the systems and methods described herein can be practiced without the specific details described herein. Well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the systems and methods described herein.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system operates in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the systems and methods described herein. Thus the embodiments described herein should not be seen as limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave. Of course other types and forms a computing systems may be used to practice the systems and methods described herein.

The profile page may include a hierarchy of pages some of which are for public view and some of which have restrictions on viewing private . For example platform can be logically organized into neighborhoods such as friends family workplace dog owners etc. Users can belong to these different neighborhoods and share different pages with the members of the different neighborhoods.

As seen in platform connects with various wireless network carrier systems each of which has an associated community of wireless network subscribers and . In this regard each of wireless network carrier systems is a carrier network and system for supporting mobile devices including mobile phones and other mobile devices such as personal device assistants pda . Each wireless network carrier system is generally a wireless network provider which can be cellular PCS or other wireless spectrum. Users of the platform are also subscribers of one or more of the various wireless network carriers which support the mobile phones or other mobile devices of users . In this way users of platform can access other users profile pages through the computer based platform of platform and they can also access the subscribers and of the various wireless network carrier systems and who also belong to platform .

A significant benefit of the architecture depicted in is that the platform has pre existing contractual relationships with the various wireless network carrier systems for accessing subscribers through each carrier systems and for billing subscribers through their respective carrier system for content and services purchased by the subscriber through platform . As is known in the art the wireless network carrier systems provide text messaging and also premium text message functionality. Such messages are sent via the wireless network carrier s infrastructure to its mobile subscribers and internal to the wireless network carrier s infrastructure the sending of such a message generates a billing event according to a particular tariff rate which then is added to the subscriber s bill from that wireless network carrier. In another billing mode the subscriber is pre paid by a certain pre paid amount with the wireless network carrier and the sending of such a message in this billing mode generates subtracts an amount corresponding to a particular tariff rate from the pre paid amount of the subscriber s account.

When platform sends a message via a wireless network carrier system e.g. it is billing the subscriber recipient of the message using the existing billing system of that wireless network carrier. The billing event is often a micro transaction of a small monetary amount e.g. less than one dollar . Thus a user e.g. of the platform may purchase a service or content within platform and be billed for those transactions through that user s wireless network carrier service account. The systems and methods described herein provide for such micro transaction billing support through platform for a transaction between a user e.g. and an application provider. In this manner an application provider need only communicate with platform to conduct transactions with users and does not require any affiliation or agreement with the various wireless network carrier systems of the users. As mentioned above other billing mechanisms can be used by the platform rather than billing the user through the wireless network carrier of the user such as prepaid card services web based payment services bank account and credit card billing services and other such external billing mechanisms to support customer transactions.

Some of the sub components of the platform are a developer s interface the user area where the content community and commerce functions are handled for the users and a multimedia messaging system MMS . The details of these different subcomponents are more fully explained throughout the remainder of this detailed description.

As noted earlier users and can visit the user area to participate in an on line community that includes various content and commerce opportunities. This is typically accomplished via a user s web browser which may be run from a laptop or desktop computer or in the alternative even on the user s mobile device such as a PDA mobile phone or other mobile device. Thus the user area includes a web server that communicates with users and includes a data store of user information and other content and also includes databases and records. With these resources the platform is able to present to a user a profile page home page that reflects content and information associated with and desired by that particular user. This content and information is not maintained on the local computer being used by the user but rather is maintained and managed by the computer systems within the user area .

Although not explicitly depicted in one of ordinary skill will recognize that there are numerous functionally equivalent techniques to create manage store and serve user information user profiles user content software tools and other resources within the user area . Included in these techniques are methods to ensure security data integrity data availability and quality of service metrics. In the present exemplary embodiment user is illustrated connecting to user area with a desktop computer user is illustrated as connecting to user area via a wireless connection dotted line from a notebook computer and user is illustrated as connecting to user area via a wireless connection dotted line from a mobile device. As will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art however the scope of the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular devices but rather encompasses any network enabled device using any network connection technique to connect to a user area.

The multimedia messaging system includes applications for connecting with and communicating with the multiple different wireless network carriers that have been partnered with platform . The MMS is configured to generate message requests in the appropriate format for each of the wireless network carriers including tariff information that determines the amount for which the recipient of the message will be charged. Upon receipt of the message request the wireless network carriers will use the information in the request to generate an appropriate message to the intended recipient subscriber of the wireless network carrier and then bill the recipient subscriber s wireless network service account for the specified amount.

The MMS communicates with the user area such that users of the platform can advantageously use the pre existing connectivity of the MMS with the wireless network carriers in order to send messages to subscribers of any of the wireless network carriers . The messages may be SMS messages MMS messages or other message formats that are subsequently developed. Some of these messages may have zero tariff and therefore do not generate a bill other than the underlying charges implemented by the wireless network carrier and others may have non zero tariffs resulting in a billing event for the recipient user.

The developer s interface provides a link between application developers providers and the platform . In particular using an interface described in more detail herein an application provider may offer services and products to users . Advantageously for the application provider the developer s interface also provides automatic and instant connectivity to the wireless network carriers via MMS . Accordingly the application provider can interact with all users of the platform through which billable transactions with users are automatically billed via the billing systems of the wireless network carriers on behalf of the application provider. Furthermore and importantly this capability is available to the application provider without requiring the application provider to negotiate or contract with any wireless network carrier for billing arrangements or to worry about how to communicate with a wireless network carrier s systems and resources. The application provider seamlessly takes advantage of the unified set of connectivity and billing arrangements that exist between the platform and the wireless network carriers . Thus in addition to the contractual arrangements and affiliations the platform has in place with different wireless network carriers the underlying technical and communications infrastructure is also in place to communicate with and interoperate with each of the different wireless network carriers . As a result application providers vendors and other users of the platform may interface with and operate with any of the users of a variety of different wireless network carriers without difficulty.

While developer s interface has been described as running on a computer based platform the scope of the systems and methods described herein are not limited to such an arrangement. Rather as will be apparent to one of skill in the art the systems and methods described herein have application to anyone of a number of arrangements in which a developer s interface provides a link between application developers and the platform .

While the terms application provider and user have been used to distinguish those who provide content from those who enjoy it it will be easily understood by one of skill in the art that a single person may be both a user and an application provider. Indeed as the systems and methods described herein render the registration of an application so simple many users of platform will be motivated to become application developers as well further increasing the amount and variety of content available via platform .

While some applications that are available to users may be hosted in the user area the developer s interface or elsewhere in the platform it is often the case that the application developer provider will host their own application at their own remote location. Accordingly in the description that follows even if a remotely hosted application is being discussed in a specific example one of ordinary skill will readily appreciate that an application being hosted differently is also expressly contemplated.

The term pod service or application is used in the following description as a label for an application offered through platform which provides a service or product. This label is used merely for convenience and is not intend to limit or restrict the types variety and capabilities of potential applications in any way. As used herein the term pod refers both to the underlying information related to the application and to the graphical rendering of the application on a user s profile page within the platform .

Once the marketplace is identified the developer commences development of their application in step . The underlying application logic is up to the developer and can utilize any of the widely known programming environments and techniques available to one of ordinary skill in this area. However the application will be offered within the platform along with a variety of other applications. Accordingly standardizing the look and feel of the application and information about the application will aid the users and make their user experience more enjoyable.

Once an application has been developed and most likely tested and verified by a developer the developer registers in step the application with the platform through developer s interface . Registering the application which is described in more detail later with reference to a number of screenshots allows the application developer to inform the developer s interface that a new application is available for integration with and subsequent access through platform .

Once an application is registered the developer s interface updates in step system databases and directories provided in storage for the new application and its associated information. In the above description of it is evident that the application developer communicates with the platform for a number of different reasons. One of ordinary skill will recognize that these various communications between the application developer and the platform can occur via any of a variety of functionally equivalent means. For example both wired and wireless communication methods for these communications are explicitly contemplated within the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

The pod developer can utilize the field input boxes to specify different fields that can capture input when a user first accesses a pod. For example if an application is developed to provide stock quotes then these fields could be defined to accept stock symbols. When the user views the pod within their profile page these fields can be filled in with appropriate stock symbols for example. Then when the user then selects a submit button on the pod this information is sent to the application developer s computing device which returns the appropriate information.

As is well known to HTML and HTTP developers based on the information that is filled in the field windows a particular query string will be appended to a request received from a user s from submission. To aid a developer in registering a pod this query string is automatically generated and displayed for the pod developer in region of the exemplary screen. To give the pod developer a quick view of how the pod will be rendered a button is provided to illustrate the pod. With this information the developer may choose to revise their design.

Once this initial information is collected the developer s interface collects additional information that is associated with the pod. depict the first half screen and the second half screen of a registration webpage for inputting registration in which a number of input fields are provided for the pod developer to fill in while registering their application. Many of these fields are self explanatory however some warrant a more detailed discussion. In particular a pricing window is available for the developer to select an appropriate pricing scheme according to a standardized pricing structure. According to one embodiment pricing occurs in fixed tariff bands. For example one band would be a 0.25 band and would be used for products or services that the developer thinks users would purchase for around 0.25. Another band may be 1.00 and would be for higher priced items and still other bands can be used as well. According to this arrangement not all prices are available to the developer instead the developer picks the closest band to use e.g. the 1.00 band is selected even if market research shows users would actually pay 1.03 for the service .

Additionally the application will likely be used by people in different countries. Because of the vagaries of global economics 0.25 may be too high of a price point in many countries. Thus it is more appropriate to set a price point for each separate country from which the application may be used. While it is possible for the developer s interface to permit the pod developer to set such a vast number of price points most developers will not have the knowledge or the patience to perform such a task. Accordingly the developer s interface automatically provides a price band selection for each country based on their respective costs of living. In other words a developer can select a price band in the currency that he is comfortable with and let the developer s interface translate that to an equivalent price band in each country.

Via the input field the developer also specifies the number of messages and frequency that their application will send to each user. Based on their knowledge of having developed the application to perform a particular service the pod developer may for example know that no more than 4 messages per day per user will be sent from their application. This information sets the terms and conditions for billing the user. Thus they would fill in this field accordingly. As explained later the developer s interface can use this information to control message traffic within the platform .

The benefit of specifying the pricing information and number of message information is that the terms and conditions of the application can be provided to a user in a uniform manner. Window displays for the pod developer how the application information including pricing terms and conditions will be shown to a user. depicts a more detailed view of this uniform pricing display . Much like nutritional labels on food products provide a uniform format for presenting the nutritional information the format depicted in window can be used to uniformly present information about applications. Thus a user of the platform does not have to learn and interpret different pricing information for each different pod developer. Instead the uniform format simplifies understanding this information. The exemplary format of window includes a variety of information about the application. Of particular interest to most users is the uniform manner in which the pricing information and the message information is clearly presented. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that the format of window is merely exemplary in nature and can vary in numerous ways without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein. Accordingly the exemplary format of window is provided to illustrate that the developer s interface is arranged so as to provide users of the platform with uniformly formatted information from a variety of different applications so as to simplify the evaluation and comparison of different offerings. With such a uniform pricing arrangement being utilized it becomes possible to monitor the behavior of pod developers with respect to their specified pricing structure and implement control measures such as limiting or restricting their activities with users of the platform if warranted.

Once the information of screens A and B are submitted to the developer s interface the application is registered with the platform . According to at least one embodiment the application is evaluated by a moderator of the platform to ensure it is acceptable from a technical and content point of view for the platform . In this scenario the application is not registered until the evaluation is completed satisfactorily.

Information about a registered application is stored within the developer s interface in such a way that when a user wants to include a pod on their profile page the pod can be rendered using the stored information and interaction between the pod and user will occur based on the stored information as well. In such a case the data associated with the user will be updated to reflect that the user is now accessing and using the pod.

Thus according to the previously described technique a pod developer can automatically register a new application even from a remote location without difficulty in such a way that the pod automatically becomes available to users of the platform at the conclusion of the registration process. Furthermore from the pod developer s point of view the application may immediately take advantage of the access to all users of platform and to the billing platform used by the platform without the need to have existing contracts in place with any of the wireless network carriers.

Once registered the application is made accessible to the users of platform via a networked interface operated by the platform. For example according to one aspect the network enabled application is integrated with platform via the application interface platform. According to another aspect a message communication channel is established between the network enabled application and the message management system. According to yet another aspect the networked interface is an application webpage that is operated by platform and that includes an application identifier corresponding to the network enabled application. According to yet another aspect the networked interface is an application webpage that can be downloaded to a user s mobile device such as a mobile phone personal device assistant pda smartphone handheld gaming device Blackberry ultra mobile PC UMPC or anyone of a number of other mobile devices known to those of skill in the art.

One benefit of registering applications in this manner is that once registered the developer s interface can prevent the terms and condition information from being subsequently changed by the pod developer. Thus a user s agreed upon price and operating parameters when initially subscribing to the application will not later be modified with or without their knowledge .

The users of the platform can locate available applications in a number of different ways. First the platform facilitates sharing of information by users having common tastes. Accordingly users frequently visit other users profile pages looking for interesting applications content and information particularly with neighborhoods to which the user belongs. During this visiting of other members home pages a user can discover an interesting pod and want to access it for themselves. In terms of the platform a user owns their own profile page and is called an owner when at their profile page. In contrast when a user visits some else s profile page they are considered a viewer . Within the platform the profile pages are maintained such that the view by an owner may not always correspond to that seen by a viewer as the owner may want some information to be private and other information to be public.

In another instance a user may know a friend or colleague would want a particular application thus the platform allows a user to inform another user about the existence of a new application. Another way in which applications are located is via a directory within the platform . For example the developer s interface registers each application as the developers submit them it is a simple extension to include a database update and a searchable directory update as part of the registration process see step of .

While the exemplary embodiment discussed above has described the registration of an application using an Internet based webpage the scope of the systems and methods described herein are not limited to this particular arrangement. Rather as will be apparent to one of skill in the art an application may be registered by a developer by providing the requisite information in anyone of a number of functionally equivalent manners. For example and without limitation a developer may register a new application by sending an appropriately formatted text message or email to a server configured to parse the information therein.

For purposes of this specification the term application should be understood to encompass not only executable program code but rather includes any data by which content is provided to a user. For example according to one embodiment an application registered by an application provider or uploaded by a user may be as simple as a multimedia file or content stream for providing music and or video to a user s mobile device or computer. Alternately an application may be a plaintext or markup language file or content stream such as an HTML formatted web log blog or an aggregated news feed e.g. RSS or ATOM . As will be apparent systems and methods described herein have application to anyone of a nearly limitless number of content types which may be provided over a network.

A rendering of an exemplary pod is depicted in . The pod includes a title bar with a number of icons . The main window of the pod is where the content is displayed. This content is based on the associated application and the stored system information associated with this pod. From the pod a user launches an initial message to the associated application. In instances where the application provides content back to the pod the window is updated. By using remote scripting capability as is known in the art the updating of window can occur without the user manually refreshing the window . Similar to the profile pages described earlier the pod can be designed to provide different views of content to a user depending on whether the user is an owner or a viewer .

The icon can be selected by a user for example when viewing someone else s pod to add that pod to their own profile page. The icon can be selected to inform another user about this pod and a drag icon can be used to move the pod around a user interface screen. The information icon is useful for displaying information about the pod including the uniform pricing information described earlier.

In response to the request from the pod user interface the pod server identifies the pod developer server and the URL of the content and adds some additional information in step . The augmented request is sent to the application provider s application server which responds in step to the augmented request.

In the previously mentioned incorporated document exemplary types of augmented information are described in detail. In general terms the information added to the augmented request includes demographic information about the owner and viewer of the pod. In this way the application server can respond with a first type of content if the owner and viewer are the same or respond with different content if the owner and viewer are different. One way to accomplish this distinction is for the user area to refer to users by a unique user ID number. Thus users can be distinguished without revealing sensitive information to a application developer such as the mobile telephone number of a user. Also the application server can use this demographic information to collect statistics about its users.

Other additional information that might be added would include details about the type of user interface the user has available. Because users may be using their mobile device their display may not be as robust as a desktop interface. Thus application server can control content based on the current graphical and bandwidth capabilities of the user. For example the additional information can indicate whether the user is operating in a web based or WAP based environment.

In response to the augmented request the application server responds with code in step that is substantially HTML data. This code is generated according to the application logic of the application server . In other words it is the content that is returned to the user who is viewing the pod. In certain embodiments the code of the response varies from conventional HTML in certain ways. For example because this is a managed communication system non standard HTML tags can be used and supported. Thus non standard tags can be used that are specific to the pod environment that are not applicable to generic HTML pages. For example a pod has a title area and a message area. Tags specifically for controlling these areas may be used to add functionality to the pod environment described herein. One of ordinary skill will recognize that a number of different specialized tags and capabilities can be offered without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

An additional variation from HTML is that of using templates where information can be provided by the pod server . For example for privacy concerns little identifying information is sent to the application server . However the pod server has access to this information because it communicates with the user information stored in the user area . Thus the use of templates will allow application server to take advantage of this information to personalize the pod experience. For example the template may include a tag . When the pod server encounters this tag in the template it knows that the application server intends for the pod server to insert the first name of the user. A more detailed list of exemplary template tags is provided in the previously mentioned incorporated document.

When the pod server receives the HTML like reply from the application server the pod server manipulates the reply into a format useful for the pod environment. For example certain HTML features such as for example javascript iframe frame and script features are removed from the reply in order to improve the security of the content. Secondly the pod server can replace the personalizable parameters in the templates with the actual user information. And thirdly the pod server can translate the content into other display formats depending on the operating environment of the user mobile or computer .

For example if an application provider is well skilled in providing WAP code as opposed to conventional HTML code then that provider can control which code or content is generated based on the information it knows about the user s interface. However if an application provider is not skilled with or does not support generating content in different formats then the application can request as part of the code it sends back to the pod server that the pod server translate the code into a more appropriate format.

Another modification the pod server can make is that of manipulating the hyperlinks within the code sent by the application provider. Under normal behavior such a hyperlink would result in opening another browser window and following the link. As is known to one skilled in this area the original hyperlinks are adjusted by the pod server so that pages rendered by following the links remain under the control of the pod server and the user interface remains within the focus of the pod instead of some other browser window.

Once the pod server completes its changes to the original code in step the pod server renders the code and content to the user s pod in step .

In addition to the code that is received from the developer s application server the pod server can also receive information from the application server about a billing event that should be triggered for the particular content that the user requested. For example the user may have requested a stock quote that will cost 1.00. When application server generates the content of the reply e.g. when application server transmits the data corresponding to the stock quote to the mobile device of the user it also generates a message that the pod user should be charged 1.00 for this transaction. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that there is wide variety of protocols for the pod server and the application server to exchange information related to a billable transaction. During operation therefore the developer s application server merely adheres to the agreed upon protocols to inform the pod server that a billable transaction has occurred.

When the pod server determines that the code from the application server includes an indication that billing should occur the pod server generates a billing event in step . This billing event is forwarded to the developer s interface so that billing may occur by using the wireless network carrier s underlying billing systems. In alternative embodiments the billing event can be handled by developer s interface to achieve payment through anyone of a variety of billing mechanisms such as prepaid card services web based payment services bank account and credit card billing services and other such external billing mechanisms that support customer transactions. The pod server has access to the recipient information i.e. the pod user and the billing rate of the application supported by application server . Therefore an appropriately formatted billing message is easily generated.

The developer s interface includes a message interface to handle billing events from a variety of sources. Although a different interface could be designed for each different source of billing events it is more efficient to use a single application programming interface API . The use of a single API is exemplary in nature and is not intended to restrict or limit the different ways that the developer s interface can exchange messages.

One type of billing message originates from subscription based services. Under these circumstances a database or other storage system maintains a record of when to send a message to a user on a predetermined periodic basis e.g. daily monthly weekly etc. . When the management system for these subscription services indicate that a message is to be sent then this message is forwarded to the interface of the developer s interface with the appropriate tariff information included.

As discussed earlier the pod server can also generate a message based on a discrete billable event occurring due to the user s operation of an application. In this instance the billing message is forwarded to the interface .

In another circumstance the application may operate so as to avoid sending content back through the pod server but still be designed to perform a billable event. For example the application may be a virtual greeting card application that sends text messages to people based on whether it is their birthday anniversary etc. and charges the pod user 0.25 for each card. Thus the application server performs billable activities but not via the content it sends back through the pod server . Under these event based circumstances the application provider can establish a direct connection with the interface and send a billable message via the established interface.

Regardless of how the billable event arrives at the interface the developer s interface processes it such that a message is sent via the MMS through the wireless network carriers to the user of the pod. This message the content of which may say for example Thank you for being a valued customer of xxx will have associated with it a tariff code that results in the user being billed via their wireless network service account.

Thus a business model is established where platform directs a wireless network carrier to bill a user for a billing event generated by the user s use of an application and then the revenue from that billing is shared in an agreed upon portion with platform which in turn shares an agreed upon portion of that billing with the application provider. The wireless network carrier benefits from additional billable data traffic and the application provider benefits by obtaining instant access to all the users of the platform as well as instant access to the wireless network carriers billing systems in a seamless and unified fashion through the platform. As mentioned above other versions of the billing model can use other billing mechanisms rather than billing the user through the wireless network carrier of the user such as prepaid card services web based payment services bank account and credit card billing services and other such external billing mechanisms to support customer transactions.

The presence of the developer s interface between the application provider s application and the MMS provides the benefit that the messaging of different users of the platform can be controlled to ensure the platform is more enjoyable.

Within the platform architecture the various computer based components discussed thus far have a vast amount of information stored and readily accessible. For example some of the information includes identifying information about each application identifying information about each user identifying information about which pods are associated with each user information about the terms and conditions regulating the operations of an application and information about messages being sent via the platform . With this information available one of ordinary skill will recognize that a number of operating parameters of the platform can be monitored and controlled.

In step the complaint statistics are evaluated to determine if a problem exists. Typically there would be checks and balances used to ensure that a single user is not abusing the system with a flood of complaints or that 100 complaints is not really a problem if the user base is 10 million. If a problem is found to exist with a particular application which can be determined if the received complaints for that application exceed a predetermined threshold then in step the developer s interface turns off communication between that application and platform . Thus the pod server of platform can be informed to ignore any communications to or from that particular application. Because an application provider may supply more than one application an embodiment is provided in which the system turns off communication with all applications from that provider not simply the ones relating to only the problematic application.

In step the developer s interface receives via its interface a message from an application developer s application server to send to a user. As part of the agreed upon interface the message arrives from an identifiable source and specifies the recipients for the message. A recipient can be a single user or it could be a group such as San Diego Padre fans which the system will expand into the individual subscribers when delivering the message.

Thus in step the developer s interface analyzes historical information about messages sent by this application sender to the specified recipient. In step this historical data can be compared to the pre defined threshold limits for the application message sender. If the message would cause the pre determined limits to be exceeded for that application then the message is discarded in step thereby avoiding billing of the user. If the message is allowable then the message is sent to the user as normal in step .

In the above description of the various aspects of the systems and methods described herein the specific example of an application was described in detail. This specific example was provided merely to highlight many of the features and aspects of the systems and methods described herein. But it will be recognize that providers of other types of products and services can also utilize and benefit from the platform system. In particular certain embodiments can allow application vendors to charge for all types of products and or services via the platform s pre existing connectivity to the various wireless network carrier systems. In practice a user consummates a transaction with a vendor through an application for some product or service and in the process provides to the vendor a means of identifying that user within the platform. The vendor in turn will communicate with the platform e.g. via the Mobile Global Platform to initiate a billing event that identifies the purchaser and the transaction amount. As explained above this billing event will result in the platform triggering the user s wireless network subscriber account to bill the user accordingly for the transaction amount. In this way the mobile phone account although this information is not necessarily revealed to the vendor acts as a virtual wallet allowing the purchaser to easily pay for a variety of different types of transactions through the use of applications. In other embodiments as mentioned above other billing mechanisms can be used by the platform rather than billing the user through the wireless network carrier of the user such as prepaid card services web based payment services bank account and credit card billing services and other such external billing mechanisms to support customer transactions.

Some third parties may have content such as a blog music video text or other digital content that they wish to offer to users of the community platform however many such third parties may not be knowledgeable or capable of developing an application pod through which their content can be delivered to the community platform. Other third parties with content to offer may simply not want to expend the time and resources necessary to develop such an application pod. Accordingly it is desirable to have a method and or system which allows a third party to offer their content for purchase and use by users of the community platform without requiring the third party to design develop and implement an application pod. Accordingly in certain embodiments the third party does not need to have the requisite skills and capabilities time or resources to develop an application pod through which to offer the third party s content such as a blog music video text photos or other digital content to mobile phone users within the community network.

In step the third party enters the location of the content that is to be contained in the application pod into a provided wizard entry field. This can be a file location on the user s computer and can be obtained through a browse button provided in the wizard page. Also the location can be a remote location such as a URL address of a blog site on which the third party maintains a blog. In this exemplary embodiment wizard entry fields are provided for indicating the blog site by name or URL address and the user ID and the password of the third party for the blog site. Also the entry fields are provided in the wizard for the third party to provide a unique blog name and descriptions short and long descriptions as well as a location of logo graphic that is to be used in the mobile community in association with the application pod.

In step the third party enters the desired pricing structure and pricing information for the pod. The wizard provides entry fields for the third party to set the price that is charged to the user for subscribing to the pod and also may allow the third party to send messages related to the subscribing users that are related to the application pod content. For example in the case of a blog application pod the wizard entries allow the third party to set the price that is billed to the user as described above. In addition the wizard provides entry fields to allow the third party to set a number of messages per day that can be sent by the third party to the subscribers of the application pod and a price level for each message that is sent to a subscriber. In the case of a blog application pod the third party can send messages to the subscriber to alert the subscriber that a new entry has been added to the blog. The third party then is able to review a representation of the appearance of the application pod before finally submitting the wizard entries for creation of the pod.

Next in step the mobile community through a server and computing devices uploads the content from the content location provided by the third party in the wizard entries and then creates an application pod which contains the uploaded content. The application pod is preferably created using a set of predetermined graphic functions and software functions to implement the pod frame and the functions commonly associated with a pod provided through the mobile community. These graphic and software functions used to create and support the application pod also provide community functions through which a user of the application pod can interact with other members of the mobile community regarding the application pod and are discussed more fully below.

Once the application pod is created the directories and databases of the mobile community are updated to implement the application pod and make it accessible to users of the mobile community for purchase upon which the user is billed through the existing billing system of the user s respective cellular carrier as described above. A user who has not purchased the application pod can see a limited view public view of the application pod while a user who has purchased the pod can view the entire pod content private view . For example in the case of a blog application pod the public view of the application pod may only show the last blog entry or may only show a limited amount of blog entry text whereas users who have purchased the blog pod can view all entries in the blog via the private view of the pod.

In addition community based functionality can be implemented into the pod frame via menus which allow the user to comment on the blog pod share the blog pod with others rate the blog pod see other community users who have purchased the blog pod see a list of other recommended application pods based on other users who have purchased the blog application pod and obtain information about the third party that generated the application pod and possibly contact the third party about the application pod.

Accordingly an application pod can be automatically generated for a third party to offer content for access purchase and use by mobile phone users within a community network. In this manner the third party does not need the requisite skills capabilities time or resources to develop an application pod for delivery of the content to users of the community network. The third party can thereby easily take advantage of the automatic connection to community users and of the automatic billing through the users respective cellular carriers as described above.

In another embodiment a web spider application can be used by the mobile community platform to find web pages of third parties such as musicians artists etc. identify the third party website with a unique code and then collect information and content from the website for use in the subsequent automatic generation of an application pod for that third party. For example a musician may have a specific webpage hosted on a music website such as garagebands.com on which information is provided about the musician and access is provided to music content of the musician. The musician may desire to extend the reach and accessibility of the musician s music content to a community of users such as that provided by the mobile community discussed above. Thus in certain embodiments content such as music content and information from e.g. the musician s existing web page s can be automatically pulled for subsequent automatic incorporation into the musician s application pod thereby simplifying and accelerating the generation of an application pod custom tailored to the musician s music content and information. The musician can then be provided the opportunity to finalize creation of the pod by entering pricing and other information.

Next in step the web spider application can extract content links information photos etc. from the third party web page. In the case of a musician or a band the musician web page can include links to download music links to watch video of the band photos description of the band and their music scheduled events for the band and other information. The mobile community platform or the web spider application can be configured to assign a unique identification code to the third party webpage in step . The extracted content links information and photos etc. from the third party webpage can then be stored in a database of the mobile community platform in correspondence with the assigned unique identification code step . In step the mobile community platform can send an email to the third party using the extracted email address from the third party webpage wherein the email contains an invitation for the third party to create an application pod for access and use by members of the mobile community.

For example if the third party is a musician the email can contain an invitation to the musician to create a music application pod that will be hosted by the mobile community platform so that members of the mobile community can then access and or purchase the music content of the musician and related information such as description of the musician and music photos video and other information through the music application pod. The process can then end.

In step the third party can register with the mobile community platform and agrees to generate a new application pod that is to be hosted by the mobile community platform and that contains content and information related to the third party. During the registration process the third party preferably provides contact information and agrees to terms and conditions of the mobile community platform. Next in step the mobile community platform identifies the third party with the previously assigned unique identification code for the third party webpage. In this regard the email invitation to the third party preferably contains the unique identification code in embedded form so that it is easily retrieved when the third party responds to the invitation via a link in the email. Other methods can also be used to identify the third party with the previously assigned unique identification code such as by corresponding the third party s email address or name obtained during registration to the unique identification code.

In step the mobile community platform can be configured to retrieve the stored content and information such as content links descriptions photos video etc. that corresponds to the unique identification code from the database. The mobile community platform can then populate a new application pod preferably in predetermined locations of a template with the retrieved content and information from the database such as content links descriptions photos video etc. step .

In step the mobile community platform can be configured to display the new application pod to the third party for approval. In the example of a musician the new application pod can be populated with the description of the musician photos video and other information related to the musician and links to the musician s music all of which was previously extracted from the musician s pre existing webpage hosted on the music website. In yet another embodiment instead of extracting and storing the content and information of the third party before the third party begins the registration process the mobile community platform can instead go to the webpage of the third party during the registration process of step and extract and store the content and information at that time.

In step the third party can modify or add to the new application pod and can providing any other remaining desired information or content to the pod and set the pricing structure for content such as music that can be purchased accessed via the new application pod and approve the application pod for use by members of the mobile community. In this regard the new approved application pod can then be integrated with the mobile community platform for access and use by members of the mobile community step . The process of can end.

In this manner an alternative embodiment as described above with respect to provides a simple and efficient way to generate an application pod for a third party content provider so that the content and related information of the third party can then be easily accessed used and or purchased by members of the mobile community platform. The alternative embodiment automatically generates a new application pod and populates it with content and information extracted from the third party s preexisting webpage thereby requiring little effort by the third party in the generation process for the application pod.

In certain embodiments content can be updated automatically as it becomes available. For example the spider application can be configured to continually monitor found websites for new content and when new content is detected it can automatically upload it and make it available via a pod e.g. which was automatically created as described above. In certain embodiments a new message may need to be sent to the third party content provider in order to allow the third party content provider to approve the addition of the content and or to update pricing for the additional content.

Further when a third party content provider is sent an invitation to create a pod based on content that was automatically downloaded from the third party provider s website step the third party provider can also be given the opportunity to add more content than what was downloaded i.e. between steps and .

It should also be noted that the content that is found and uploaded can come from another network such as a social network. For example a musician s MySpace cite can be spidered step and the content can be downloaded and saved with a unique identification code Steps . The spider can be configured to then send a message to the musician inviting the musician to create an application pod step . The message can include a link for the musician to set up a pod. The link can contain the unique identifier. When the musician follows the link the musician can then set up the pod or provide the information for automatic generation of the pod e.g. in accordance with the process of by approving the content adding more content if desired and selecting a price for pod. The pod can then be saved and made available as described. In this manner a user can have access to a plurality of networks e.g. social networks through the automatic generation of pods as described above.

While certain embodiments have been described above it will be understood that the embodiments described are by way of example only. Accordingly the systems and methods described herein should not be limited based on the described embodiments. Rather the scope of the systems and methods described herein should only be limited in light of the claims that follow when taken in conjunction with the above description and accompanying drawings.

