---

title: Systems and methods for managing emergency information
abstract: A computer-implemented method for managing emergency information may include intercepting, on a mobile-computing device, an emergency communication being transmitted from the mobile-computing device. Intercepting the emergency communication may include monitoring outgoing communications on the mobile-computing device and determining that an outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency. This method may also include sending, from the mobile-computing device to a remote server that collects emergency data from a plurality of mobile-computing devices, information about the emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of the emergency. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497585&OS=09497585&RS=09497585
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09497585
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130912
---
Traditional online crime mapping services may obtain most of their crime data in one of two ways by either subscribing to a crime reporting service or by mining the contents of digitalized crime reports provided by law enforcement agencies. The crime reports obtained in either process may be inconsistent incomplete or irrelevant. In addition some crime mapping services may provide little information about other emergencies such as fires car accidents medical emergencies etc. Finally scaling traditional crime mapping services to new areas may be a slow tedious process.

Crime data taken from crime reports may be inconsistent incomplete or irrelevant for a variety of reasons. For example each law enforcement agency may have different standards for reporting crime. This may make it difficult to compare the crime reports of one agency with the crime reports of another. Not every law enforcement agency releases their crime reports and some agencies may not release data about a crime until the case is closed which may take months or years. Other agencies may choose to withhold crimes of a sensitive nature. In some cases each law enforcement agency may choose to release their crime reports at different intervals one agency may release their reports every 24 hours another once a week.

Traditional crime mapping services may also obtain crime data from other sources such as news outlets. This may be a time consuming and tedious way to find crime data. Other services may scrape data from existing crime mapping services. This may be less time consuming but the data may be as unreliable as data from crime reports.

In addition to these problems traditional methods of obtaining crime data may be difficult to scale. Contacting each law enforcement agency in a new area may be costly and time consuming. Obtaining crime reports may be complex and tedious and growing to new areas may increase this complexity.

All of the above problems may make it difficult to provide consistent complete or relevant safety information to users. What is needed therefore is a more efficient and effective mechanism for obtaining and using information about crimes and other emergencies.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for managing emergency information by sending intercepted information about emergency communications to a database and using the emergency communication information to provide safety ratings for a geographical region.

In one example a computer implemented method for managing emergency information may include intercepting on a mobile computing device an emergency communication being transmitted from the mobile computing device. Intercepting the outgoing emergency communication may include monitoring outgoing communications from the mobile computing device and determining that an outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency. The method may also include sending from the mobile computing device to a remote server that collects emergency data from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about the emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of the emergency.

In one embodiment monitoring the outgoing communications from the mobile computing device may include monitoring telephone numbers dialed from the mobile computing device. Determining that the outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency may also include determining that a dialed telephone number is an emergency dispatch number.

In some examples the method may additionally or alternatively include analyzing on the mobile computing device the emergency communication to obtain information indicative of a nature of the emergency. In these examples sending the information about the emergency communication may include sending information indicative of the nature of the emergency.

In one embodiment the method may include recording on the mobile computing device the emergency communication. In this embodiment sending the information about the emergency communication may include sending the recording from the mobile computing device to the remote server. Another embodiment of the method may include transmitting from the mobile computing device location information that identifies a location to which a user of the mobile computing device traveled after leaving the location of the emergency.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device cause the computing device to intercept on a mobile computing device an emergency communication being transmitted from the mobile computing device. As part of intercepting the emergency communication the computer executable instructions when executed by at least one processor of the computing device may cause the computing device to monitor outgoing communications from the mobile computing device and then determine that an outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency. The instructions may also cause the computing device to send from the mobile computing device to a remote server that collects emergency data from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about the emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of the emergency.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method for managing emergency information may include receiving from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from the mobile computing devices. The method may also include identifying based on location information received from the mobile computing devices geographical regions where emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. In some examples the information about the emergency communication may be used to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred.

In one embodiment of the above described method establishing the safety ratings for geographical regions may include for each geographical region being rated determining a total number of mobile computing devices within the geographical region that are capable of providing information about emergency communications. The method may also include determining a volume of emergency communications received from the mobile computing devices within the geographical region and normalizing the safety rating for the geographical region by comparing the total number of mobile computing devices within the geographical region with the volume of emergency communications received from the mobile computing devices within the geographical region.

In some embodiments information about the emergency communications may include recordings of the emergency communications. In one example establishing the safety ratings for the geographical regions may include for each emergency communication analyzing the recording of the emergency communication to identify key words indicative of the nature of the emergency identified by the emergency communication. In another example establishing the safety ratings for the geographical region may include for each emergency communication analyzing the recording of the emergency communication to determine an intensity of the emergency communication.

In one embodiment establishing the safety ratings for the geographical regions may include analyzing anti theft submissions from one or more mobile computing devices in the plurality of mobile computing devices.

The method may additionally include for each mobile computing device in the plurality of mobile computing devices querying the mobile computing device for information that identifies a location to which a user of the mobile computing device traveled after leaving the location of an emergency and using the information that identifies the locations to which the users of the mobile computing devices traveled to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred.

In another example the computer implemented method may include determining that a mobile computing device from the plurality of mobile computing devices is located within or near a geographical region for which a safety rating has been established. The method may also include sending to the mobile computing device information about the safety rating of the geographical region.

In some embodiments the method may also include but is not limited to determining that an additional mobile computing device is located near an emergency associated with an emergency communication received from a mobile computing device in the plurality of mobile computing devices and sending to the additional mobile computing device information about the emergency.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to receive from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from the mobile computing devices and identify based on location information received from the mobile computing devices geographical regions where emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. The one or more computer executable instructions may also cause the computing device to use the information about the emergency communications to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred.

In some embodiments a system for implementing the above described method may include an interception module that intercepts on a mobile computing device an emergency communication being transmitted from the mobile computing device by monitoring outgoing communications from the mobile computing device and determining that an outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency. The system may also include a transmission module that sends from the mobile computing device to a safety ratings system that collects emergency data from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about the emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of the emergency. A reception module may receive at the safety ratings system information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from a plurality of mobile computing devices the plurality of mobile computing devices may include the mobile computing device . In addition a location identification module may identify based on location information received from the mobile computing devices geographical regions where emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. The system may also include a ratings module that uses the information about the emergency communications to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred. In addition the system may include a display module that may display via a graphical user interface a map showing representations of the geographical regions and representations of the safety ratings of the geographical regions.

In some examples a detection module may determine that based on location data from at least one device in the plurality of mobile computing devices the mobile computing device is within or near a geographical location for which safety ratings alerts are being issued. A notification module may transmit an alert to the mobile computing device and the alert may indicate a safety rating of the geographical location. The notification module and the detection module may be located in the safety rating system.

In one embodiment the interception module may monitor the outgoing communications from the mobile computing device by monitoring telephone numbers dialed from the mobile computing device. The interception module may also determine that the outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency by determining that a dialed telephone number is an emergency dispatch number.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for managing emergency information. As will be explained in greater detail below the systems and methods described herein may provide a robust and accurate location rating system by intercepting emergency communications transmitted from mobile computing devices and using information obtained from the emergency communications to establish ratings for geographical regions.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for managing emergency information. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . Descriptions of exemplary geographical locations are provided in the description of and descriptions of an exemplary ratings map are provided in the description of . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In addition and as will be described in greater detail below exemplary system may include a reception module that receives information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from a plurality of mobile computing devices. Exemplary system may also include a location identification module that identifies based on location information received from the mobile computing devices geographical regions where emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. In addition exemplary system may include a ratings module that uses the information about the emergency communications to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred.

In some embodiments exemplary system may include a detection module that determines that based on location data from at least one mobile computing device in the plurality of mobile computing devices the mobile computing device is within or near a geographical location for which safety rating alerts are being issued. Additionally exemplary system may include a notification module that transmits an alert to the mobile computing device. The alert may indicate a safety rating of the geographical location. As shown in system notification module and detection module may be located in safety ratings system . Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. mobile computing devices and or server computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

As illustrated in exemplary system may also include one or more databases such as database . In one example database may be configured to store emergency communication data location data and safety ratings data . Emergency communication data may include information about emergency communications that are intercepted on and transmitted from a mobile computing device. Location data may include information that describes the location of a mobile computing device at a given time of day. Safety ratings data may include safety ratings of various geographical regions.

Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of server in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database in may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as server in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include mobile computing devices in communication with a server via a network . Mobile computing devices may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database . Additionally or alternatively a safety ratings system on server may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database .

In some embodiments mobile computing devices may include any number of mobile computing devices within one or more geographical regions. Some or all of mobile computing devices may include one or more modules . In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor on any mobile computing device and or server cause mobile computing devices and or server to manage emergency information. In some embodiments any modules that are executed by a processor on mobile computing device may alternatively or additionally be executed by one or more processors on one or more of mobile computing devices .

In one embodiment all or part of server may include a safety ratings system that collects emergency data from a plurality of mobile computing devices . Safety ratings system may also include some or all of database . As will be described in greater detail below database may store emergency information and location information received from mobile computing devices . In some exemplary embodiments safety ratings system may be implemented across multiple servers and databases in any suitable configuration.

The following description of mobile computing device may apply to any other mobile computing device. In one example interception module may intercept an emergency communication being transmitted from mobile computing device . Interception module may intercept the emergency communication by monitoring outgoing communications from mobile computing device and determining that an outgoing communication being monitored on mobile computing device is a communication about an emergency. Transmission module may send from mobile computing device to safety ratings system via network information about the emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of the emergency.

In some embodiments reception module may receive at safety ratings system information about emergency communications and location information transmitted by transmission modules . Emergency communication data which may be stored on database may include data about the emergency communications received by reception module from one or more of mobile computing device . Additionally or alternatively location data which may also be stored on database may include location information received by reception module .

In some configurations of safety ratings system location identification module may identify based on information stored in location data geographical regions where emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. In one example safety ratings system may add data about identified geographical regions to location data . In some embodiments ratings module may use information contained in emergency communication data and location data to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where the emergencies occurred. Safety ratings system may store the ratings established by ratings module in safety ratings data .

Additionally or alternatively safety ratings system may include detection module that determines that based on location data from an additional mobile computing device the additional mobile computing device is within or near a geographical location for which safety rating alerts are being sent. In some embodiments safety ratings system may also include a notification module that transmits an alert to mobile computing device . The alert may indicate a safety rating of the geographical location that mobile computing device is within or near.

Some or all of mobile computing devices generally represent any type or form of mobile computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of mobile computing devices may include without limitation laptops tablets cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same or any other suitable computing device.

Server generally represents any type or form of computing device with a safety ratings system that is capable of managing emergency information. Examples of server include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. In one example server may be a server owned by a security software publisher and may receive information about emergency communications from mobile computing devices configured with security clients.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN the Internet Power Line Communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between mobile computing devices and server .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may intercept on a mobile computing device an emergency communication being transmitted from the mobile computing device. For example at step interception module may as part of mobile computing device in intercept an emergency communication being transmitted from mobile computing device .

As used herein the phrase emergency communication generally refers to any type or form of communication about an emergency. For example the phrase emergency communication may describe any communication that refers to an emergency describes an emergency indicates an emergency has occurred specifies a type of an emergency identifies a location of an emergency or contains any other information about or related to an emergency. Emergency communications may include phone calls text messages instant messages VoIP communications or any other suitable way to transmit information about an emergency from a mobile computing device. For example a user of mobile computing device may call 911 to report a crime. In another example a user of mobile computing device may send a text message to a friend about a recent shooting in a nearby neighborhood.

Emergency communications may include communications about any kind of emergency. In some embodiments mobile computing device may transmit an emergency communication about crimes such as robberies shootings sexual assaults kidnappings theft etc. In some examples an emergency communication transmitted from mobile computing device may include communications about other kinds of emergencies such as fires traffic accidents road hazards roadside assistance incidents air quality issues inclement weather hazardous materials accidents chemical biological radiological emergencies aircraft crashes natural disasters emergency evacuations environmental hazards medical or health emergencies power outages exposed electrical lines food shortages civil disorder or riots national emergencies e.g. war or terrorism viral outbreaks food water air contamination or about any other situation or occurrence that could be considered an emergency.

Interception module may intercept emergency communications in a variety of ways. For example interception module may monitor outgoing communications on mobile computing device and then determine that an outgoing communication being monitored is a communication about an emergency steps and .

Interception module may monitor outgoing communications in a variety of ways. In some embodiments interception module may detect attempts to initiate communications and or transmit information from mobile computing device . For example interception module may monitor telephone communications from mobile computing device by detecting attempts to make telephone calls from mobile computing device . Interception module may detect attempts to make telephone calls by monitoring outgoing cellular communications by monitoring a telephone app on mobile computing device by monitoring an Application Programming Interface API used in making phone calls and or in any other suitable manner.

As another example of monitoring outgoing communications interception module may monitor text messages emails Voice over IP VoIP communication and or other digital communications from mobile computing device . Interception module may monitor such digital communications by monitoring outgoing communications from particular applications e.g. VoIP apps emails apps texting apps etc. by monitoring APIs used in processing digital communications by monitoring data being sent from computing device and or in any other suitable manner.

As mentioned above in additional to monitoring outgoing communications interception module may determine whether the communications being monitored are communications about an emergency. Interception module may determine whether monitored communications are emergency communications in many different ways. In some embodiments interception module may determine that a communication is an emergency communication by determining that an intended recipient of the communication is an emergency responder e.g. a police department a fire department an emergency call center a roadside assistance company a poison control center a suicide hotline etc. . For example interception module may determine that a telephone number being dialed is an emergency dispatch number e.g. 911 a fire department number a police department number etc. . As another example interception module may determine that a recipient of a text message is an emergency responder.

Interception module may also determine whether monitored communications are emergency communications by examining content and or context of the communications. For example interception module may track the time of calls dialed to emergency numbers and may determine that calls to emergency numbers with very short durations e.g. less than one or two seconds are accidental calls and are not emergency communications. Additionally or alternatively interception module may analyze the content of a communication to determine whether the communication includes key words and or phrases that suggest the communication is about an emergency.

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may send from a mobile computing device to a remote server that collects data from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about an emergency communication and location information that identifies a location of an emergency. For example transmission module may send from mobile computing device to server information about an intercepted emergency communication. Transmission module may also send from mobile computing device to server location information that identifies a location of the emergency associated with the emergency communication.

As noted transmission module may send information about an emergency communication to server . As used herein the phrase information about an emergency communication generally refers to any type or kind of information about an emergency communication that may be sent from a mobile computing device. For example information about an emergency communication may include the date and or time the communication was transmitted from a mobile computing device a unique identifier of the mobile computing device e.g. IMEI or IMSI or any other information that uniquely identifies the mobile computing device or a user of the mobile computing device a duration of the communication and or emergency keywords identified in the communication. In embodiments where the emergency communication is a text message email VoIP communication or other digital communication information about the emergency communication may include a digital copy of the emergency communication. In embodiments where the emergency communication is a cellular communication information about an emergency communication may include an analog or digital recording of the cellular communication.

Transmission module may send information about an emergency communication to server at different times and or intervals. For example transmission module may send information about an emergency communication in real time i.e. at the same time the emergency communication is transmitted from mobile computing device or at any time after the emergency communication is transmitted. In some embodiments transmission module may be configured to send information about an emergency communication at predetermined intervals. For example transmission module may be configured to send information about emergency communications once a day once a week once a month etc. In another example transmission module may send information about an emergency communication in response to a query from server .

As noted above transmission module may also send from mobile computing device to server location information that identifies a location of the emergency associated with the emergency communication. In some embodiments transmission module may send location information with e.g. in the same communication as information about the emergency communication. Alternatively transmission module may transmit location information to server independent from information about the emergency communication.

Location information may include data obtained from a variety of mobile positioning systems. For example location information may include data obtained using network based positioning SIM based positioning trilateration e.g. GPS multilateration e.g. GSM localization triangulation crowd sourced Wi Fi hybrid positioning systems e.g. Assisted GPS any kind of Near Location Based Services NLBS or any other process capable of determining or gathering information about the location of a mobile computing device. In some embodiments location information may include information about physical addresses such as city names street addresses cross streets etc. In one embodiment location information may be location data obtained from an application running on the mobile computing device e.g. GOOGLE MAPS .

Location information may also include user provided location data. For example location information may include location keywords obtained from a telephone call or text message. In another example server may query mobile computing device for location information. In response transmission module may automatically send location information or may prompt a user of mobile computing device to provide location information.

In some embodiments transmission module may send location information to server at different times and or intervals. For example module may send location information in real time i.e. at the same time the emergency communication is transmitted from mobile computing device or any time after the emergency communication is transmitted. In some embodiments transmission module may be configured to send location information at predetermined intervals. For example transmission module may be configured to send location information once a day once a week once a month etc. In another embodiment transmission module may send location information in response to a query from server .

In some embodiments transmission module may collect location information on a mobile computing device in a variety of ways. For example transmission module may collect location information by monitoring mobile positioning systems or other location based services on mobile computing device . In some embodiments transmission module may collect location information on a mobile computing device by monitoring APIs used in mobile positioning systems or monitoring apps that make use of mobile positioning systems. In one embodiment transmission module may collect location information by monitoring an emergency communication and detecting location keywords e.g. street addresses in the emergency communication. For example transmission module may detect location keywords in cellular communications emails text messages VoIP etc. by monitoring APIs used in transmitting emergency communications by monitoring apps capable of transmitting emergency communications or by any other process capable of detecting location keywords in an emergency communication. In another embodiment a mobile positioning system may be configured to send location information to transmission module .

As noted above the steps shown in may be performed on or by a mobile computing device such as mobile computing device and the steps shown in may be performed on or by a remote server such as server . As shown in step of one or more of the systems described herein may receive from a plurality of mobile computing devices information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from the mobile computing devices. For example reception module may receive as part of safety ratings system on server information about emergency communications that are intercepted while being sent from mobile computing devices .

Reception module may be configured to receive information about emergency communications in any suitable manner. For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications by receiving emergency communication data submissions sent from one or more of mobile computing devices . An emergency communication data submission may be any kind communication or transmission analog or digital that includes information about emergency communications. In some embodiments reception module may receive information about emergency communications at predetermined intervals. For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications once a day once a week once a month etc. In one embodiment safety ratings system may query one or more of mobile computing devices for information about emergency communications. In some examples safety ratings system may send queries for information about emergency communications at predetermined intervals once a day once a week once a month etc. . In one example reception module may receive information about emergency communications in real time i.e. when emergency communications are intercepted or any time after emergency communications are intercepted.

In some embodiments information about an emergency communication may include location information that identifies a location of an emergency identified in the emergency communication. For example safety ratings system may receive mobile positioning data from mobile computing devices that identifies locations of various emergencies.

Safety ratings system may be configured to receive information about emergency communications across one or more servers e.g. server and via one or more networks. For example multiple servers and or networks in safety ratings system may be configured with instances of reception module . In this example each server or network may receive information about emergency communications from a different geographical region or group of geographical regions.

Information about emergency communications may be received by safety ratings system via any type of network . For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications via a cellular network the Internet or any other kind of network capable of transmitting analog or digital communications or information. In some embodiments reception module may receive information about emergency communications via network using a variety of application layer protocols such as FTP HTTP HTTPS IMAP etc.

Reception module may receive information about emergency communications from any type of mobile computing device. For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications from cellular phones handheld devices smartphones tablets netbooks notebooks laptops wearable computers e.g. smartwatches PDAs handheld game consoles portable media players Personal Navigation Devices PNDs pagers any kind of mobile internet device or any other kind of mobile computing device capable of transmitting information about emergency communications.

Reception module may receive information about emergency communications from any number of mobile computing devices. For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications from thousands of mobile computing devices that are located in a major city. In another example reception module may receive information about emergency communications from hundreds of mobile computing devices that are located in a small town. In some embodiments reception module may receive information about emergency communications from security clients e.g. security software owned by a security software publisher running on one or more mobile computing devices .

Safety ratings system may store information about emergency communications in database in a variety of ways. For example reception module may receive information about emergency communications from mobile computing devices and safety ratings system may store that information in database . In some embodiments information about emergency communications may be stored as emergency communication data and location information that indicates a location of the emergency may be stored as location data . In at least one embodiment information about emergency communications may be stored across multiple servers or in any other configuration suitable for storing emergency communication data.

At step in one or more of the systems described herein may identify based on location information received from the mobile computing devices geographical regions where the emergencies associated with the emergency communications occurred. For example location identification module may identify based on location data geographical regions where the emergencies associated with emergency communications occurred.

As used herein the phrase geographical region generally refers to any type or kind of location or region. For example the phrase geographical region may refer to a city state country territory province county area code zip code neighborhood street building house structure landmark set of boundaries defined by coordinates etc. In some embodiments a geographical region may be part of another geographical region. For example a country region may contain one or more state regions state regions may contain one or more city regions city regions may contain one or more neighborhood regions etc.

Safety ratings system may for a variety of purposes define use or create arbitrary or symbolic geographical regions. For example safety ratings system may create a geographical region referred to as The West Coast. The West Coast may be a symbolic region that includes all states along the western coast of the United States. In this example server may receive from devices located within The West Coast information about emergency communications. In some examples an additional server configured with safety ratings system may receive from an additional geographical region referred to as The East Coast information about emergency communications from devices located along the east coast of the United States. Safety ratings system may use arbitrary or symbolic geographical regions to establish safety ratings categorize location data create safety maps and or to perform any other suitable process or function described herein.

Location identification module may identify geographical regions in a variety of ways. In some embodiments location identification module may analyze mobile positioning data stored as location data to identify geographical regions where emergencies occurred. For example location identification module may identify that based on mobile positioning data in location data that the location of an emergency is in a city a town at a school etc. In some embodiments location identification module may analyze key words e.g. from a recording of an emergency communication to identify a location where an emergency occurred. In one embodiment in response to receiving information about emergency communications safety ratings system may query one or more mobile computing devices for location information about the emergency associated with the emergency communication. Mobile computing devices may then send that data to safety ratings system .

At step in one or more of the systems described herein may use the information about the emergency communications to establish safety ratings for the geographical regions where emergencies have occurred and been identified. For example ratings module may use data stored in database to establish safety ratings for geographical regions where emergencies occurred. In at least one embodiment ratings module may store safety ratings as safety ratings data .

The phrase safety ratings as used herein generally refers to any type or kind of rating that indicates how safe a geographical region is. A safety rating may include a number a phrase or key word indicating the safety of a geographical region a heat map i.e. a graphical representation of data where values are represented as colors or other markings any kind of map or geographical representation used to describe the safety of one or more geographical regions any kind of symbol or imagery used to indicate the safety of a geographical region or any other representation used to depict categorize and or indicate the safety of a geographical region.

Safety ratings may be calculated using any information carried or inferred by information about emergency communications. For example safety ratings may be based on the types of emergency communications received the intensity of emergency communications entities to which the emergency communications are directed e.g. a police department a fire department an emergency dispatch center etc. times when emergencies occurred and or any other suitable factors.

As noted a recording of an emergency communication may be stored in database as emergency communication data . As part of establishing the safety rating for a geographical region ratings module may analyze the recording of one or more emergency communications to determine the intensity of the emergency communications. Ratings module may determine the intensity of an emergency communication by analyzing a recording for a volume of the caller a duration of the call Natural Language Processed NLP key words e.g. expletives in the recording and or any other information about the recording to determine the intensity of the emergency communication. Ratings module may use the information about the intensity of the emergency in calculating an empirical safety score for a geographical region such as the geographical regions depicted in .

As discussed in a previous paragraph ratings module may establish safety ratings for geographical regions by analyzing anti theft submissions from one or more mobile computing devices . In some embodiments anti theft submissions may be received along with or as part of the information about emergency communications received by reception module . As used herein the phrase anti theft submissions generally refers to any kind of data that identifies describes or indicates an attempt made by a user of mobile computing device to activate an anti theft process or mechanism. For example a user of a cell phone may after the loss or theft of their phone activate a Lock Wipe or Sneak Peak command. In this example the Lock command may prevent anyone from using the phone the Wipe command may delete or clear all data on the phone and the Sneak Peak command may cause the phone to take a picture in hopes that the picture reveals who has the phone or the location of the phone .

An anti theft submission for mobile computing device may include the location of the phone at the time a user activated an anti theft command. For example a cell phone may submit as part of an anti theft submission its own GPS coordinates anytime it receives a Lock Wipe or Sneak Peak command. In one embodiment the anti theft submission may also include a date and time stamp that indicates when an anti theft process or mechanism was activated. In some examples an anti theft submission may include a unique device identifier or a hash of a unique device identifier e.g. IMEI or IMSI .

In some embodiments ratings module may analyze anti theft submissions to determine the probability of a theft incident. For example ratings modules may determine based on information in an anti theft submission that a cell phone received a Lock and Wipe command but never received an Unlock command. In this example ratings module may determine that the cell phone was never recovered and therefore possibly stolen. In some embodiments ratings module may use these kinds of determinations and any other kinds of anti theft determinations to establish safety ratings for geographical regions.

Ratings module may use information about emergency communications to establish the safety ratings in a variety of ways. For example ratings module may establish safety ratings by analyzing and or comparing data stored in emergency communication data and location data . In some embodiments for each geographical region being rated ratings module may determine within a geographical region a total number of mobile computing devices that are capable of providing information about emergency communications. For example ratings module may determine that a total number of mobile computing devices located within geographical regions or are capable of providing information about emergency communications e.g. a total number of devices with software capable of collecting and sending information about emergency communications . Additionally ratings module may determine a volume of emergency communications received from geographical regions or . In some embodiments ratings module may normalize the safety rating for geographical regions or by comparing the total number of mobile computing devices with the volume of emergency communications received.

As an example of the above ratings module may determine that within geographical region 100 000 cell phones are capable of providing information about emergency calls to safety ratings system . Ratings module may also determine that 10 000 of these cell phones have submitted information about emergency calls. In this example ratings module may normalize the safety rating for geographical region by comparing the number of emergency data submissions from the 10 000 cell phones with the total number of cell phones in that region. Ratings module may based on this comparison assign an empirical safety score to geographical region . An empirical safety score may be a number on a scale or any other way to rate the overall safety of a geographical region such that the rating could be compared to ratings of other geographical regions. The empirical score may be based on any information such as the rate type density severity etc. of emergency events in a geographical region.

For example as shown in ratings module may assign Metropolis a safety rating of 5 on a scale of 1 10 . In one example Metropolis may be a city within a geographical region such as geographical region . A different city within geographical region may be assigned a safety rating of 3. In this scenario it could be inferred that the city Metropolis is less safe than the city in geographical region . In some embodiments empirical safety scores may be assigned to any type of geographical region. For example a city may be assigned an overall score of 4 while a neighborhood within that city may be assigned a 7. In some examples any size of geographical region e.g. something as large an entire country or as small as an individual landmark may be assigned an empirical safety score. There may be many other ways to assign empirical scoring to geographical regions and these examples are not meant to be limiting in any way.

As noted is an exemplary illustration of a safety ratings map . Safety ratings map may be a Graphical User Interface GUI configured to display safety ratings and emergency events for geographical regions. In some embodiments display module may be configured to display safety ratings map via a GUI. Safety ratings map may be displayed in an Internet browser or any other type or kind of GUI capable of displaying safety ratings maps. In some embodiments the safety ratings shown in safety ratings map may be based on safety ratings stored as safety ratings data . In one example the GUI displaying safety ratings map may be capable of displaying many geographical regions and may also provide filters that allow a user to change the type of safety ratings the GUI displays. For example one filter may cause the GUI to display crime emergencies while another filter may cause the GUI to display fire emergencies. is one example of a GUI capable of displaying safety ratings and emergency events for a geographical region and the present disclosure covers any other suitable type or form of representation of safety ratings.

As previously discussed is an illustration of exemplary city Metropolis. Metropolis may represent major cities or a cities surrounded by many other cities or suburbs. Within Metropolis thousands of cell phones running instances of a security client may be configured to send information about emergency events to a remote server. In one embodiment these cell phones may be configured to submit GPS coordinates of their location to the remote server once a week. A safety ratings system on the remote server may determine the total number of cell phones in Metropolis by tracking these GPS submissions. The security clients on these cell phones may also include modules configured to intercept emergency calls and transmit data about those calls to the remote server. As used in the following description the term cell phones refers to cell phones within Metropolis that are running an instance of the security client.

In some examples a number of cell phones in Metropolis may submit to a remote server recordings of emergency calls and other information about emergency calls. In one embodiment a cell phone that submits information about an emergency call may also submit GPS coordinates that indicate where the phone was located when the emergency call was made. The safety ratings system may analyze the recordings and based on the analysis of the recordings as well as the analysis of weekly GPS submissions and any other data create the safety ratings shown in safety ratings map .

Safety ratings map shows many different types of safety ratings. For example the heat map of Metropolis shows a safety rating for each section of Metropolis. The heat map shows dangerous areas where multiple or severe emergencies have occurred and safer areas where fewer emergencies occurred. For example the parts of Metropolis where shootings and assaults occur are shown as more dangerous than parts where road hazards occur and parts of Metropolis where no emergencies occur are shown as the safest. In some embodiments a safety rating may indicate whether over a period of time a geographical region has become more or less dangerous. For example a heat map may show that parts of Metropolis are currently more dangerous than they were last month.

Safety ratings map shows an overall safety score of 5 for Metropolis. Safety ratings maps also shows various emergency events such as shootings robberies car accidents road hazards etc. Ratings module may determine as previously discussed the emergency types severities and locations shown in safety ratings map by analyzing information about emergency communications sent from cell phones within Metropolis. Location identification module may analyze location data stored in location data to determine the location of emergency events in Metropolis and ratings module may analyze and compare data in emergency communication data and location data to establish safety ratings for Metropolis. In at least one embodiment ratings module may create the heat map using an algorithm that compares the total number of cell phones in each section of Metropolis to the total number of emergencies within those sections. In some examples the algorithm used to create the heat map may include any algorithm capable of creating a heat map. In some embodiments the algorithm may also utilize any data or information suitable for creating heat maps.

As discussed in previous paragraphs for each mobile computing device in mobile computing devices safety ratings system may query the mobile computing device for information that identifies a location to which a user of the mobile computing device traveled after leaving the location of an emergency. Additionally ratings module may use that information to establish safety ratings for geographical regions where the emergencies occurred. For example location identification module may an hour after an emergency occurs in Metropolis ping the cell phone that submitted information about the emergency. Location identification module may use the ping to identify a location to which a user of the cell phone traveled after leaving the location of the emergency. The ping may reveal that the user traveled to a prison hospital police station or other emergency related location. Ratings module may use information about where a device travels after an emergency to establish safety ratings for Metropolis. For example information about where a device travels after making an emergency call may be indicative of the type and or severity of an emergency.

As noted detection module may determine that based on location data from at least one device in the plurality of mobile computing devices a mobile computing device is within or near a geographical location for which safety ratings alerts are being issued. Additionally notification module may transmit an alert to the mobile computing device that indicates a safety rating of the geographical region. Such alerts may include any type or form of alert such as emails text messages instant messages audio notifications etc. that indicate a safety rating of a geographical region. In some embodiments safety ratings system may include one or more systems that allow any mobile computing device users to subscribe their mobile computing device to receive safety alerts for specific geographical regions. As an example if a user walks into a neighborhood with a high crime rating safety ratings system may transmit an alert to the user that notifies the user about the rating. As another example a user searching for a home in a particular part of a town may receive a notification that the geographical area where the user is located has high incidences of theft.

As another example safety ratings system may determine that based on an emergency cell phone call made to 911 a person within Metropolis is suffering from a heart attack. Detection module may determine that a cell phone e.g. that may or may not be configured to send information about emergency communications to safety ratings system is within or near the location of this medical emergency. Detection module may determine that based on the subscription information for the cell phone that the user of the cell phone is a doctor who has elected to receive alerts about nearby medical emergencies. Notification module may then send an alert to the doctor s cell phone informing him of the location and nature of the medical emergency.

As another example detection module may determine that a cell phone within Metropolis is located near a fatal car accident. In this example safety ratings system may be configured to issue emergency alerts to mobile computing devices that are within or near Metropolis and may send via notification module a text message to the cell phone. The text message may inform the user of the cell phone that they are nearby or approaching a dangerous section of freeway and that they should proceed with caution.

Alerts such as the ones described above may be sent to various mobile computing devices in a variety of emergency events. For example a tow truck company may subscribe to receive alerts about nearby car accidents parents may subscribe to receive alerts if their child s cell phone has entered an unsafe area travelers may subscribe to receive alerts about the safety of their travel destination citizens may subscribe to receive alerts about emergencies near their home etc. Safety ratings system may include an alerting system that can transmit the alerts described in the above examples as well as any other type or kind of alerts suitable for any situation occurrence or emergency.

As explained above in connection with methods and in embodiments described herein may provide a location safety rating and alerting system that may intercept user initiated emergency data sent from a mobile computing device and submit the same to a remote server for analysis. Using data intercepted in this manner e.g. by crowd sourcing from a substantial number of cell phones or other mobile computing devices may facilitate a more robust and accurate safety ratings systems than those that depend on crime reports. Also the information contained in a mobile emergency data submission may be better suited for creating relevant and consistent emergency maps and alerting systems.

As detailed above emergency data submissions may include information about an emergency call such as the emergency number dialed the GPS coordinates of the mobile computing device when the call was made date and time stamps that shows when the call was made the duration of the call NLP key words used in the call e.g. fire shooting heart attack etc. the volume of the caller a hash of a unique device identifier e.g. IMEI OR IMSI that identifies the device that made the call and any other information relevant to the call. The location safety rating and alerting system on the remote server may receive and analyze these emergency data submissions as well other submissions e.g. anti theft submissions and routine GPS coordinate submissions and create safety ratings based on this analysis. Also the location safety rating and alerting system may create and display via an internet browser digital maps that show empirical location safety scores visual heat maps locations of emergency events etc. A system such as this may improve the consistency and reliability of emergency data and may establish a robust ratings system that incorporates not only crime ratings but ratings for many other types of emergencies as well. Such a system may also be more scalable than prior solutions. For example the safety ratings systems described herein may be scaled to and or implemented in any geographical region in the world with a mobile computing device subscriber base.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system . In one example database from may be stored in primary storage device .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as Network File System NFS Server Message Block SMB or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for managing emergency information.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine. As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a mobile computing environment. Mobile computing environments may be implemented by a wide range of mobile computing devices including mobile phones tablet computers e book readers personal digital assistants wearable computing devices e.g. computing devices with a head mounted display smartwatches etc. and the like. In some examples mobile computing environments may have one or more distinct features including for example reliance on battery power presenting only one foreground application at any given time remote management features touchscreen features location and movement data e.g. provided by Global Positioning Systems gyroscopes accelerometers etc. restricted platforms that restrict modifications to system level configurations and or that limit the ability of third party software to inspect the behavior of other applications controls to restrict the installation of applications e.g. to only originate from approved application stores etc. Various functions described herein may be provided for a mobile computing environment and or may interact with a mobile computing environment.

In addition all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of interact with consume data produced by and or produce data consumed by one or more systems for information management. As used herein the phrase information management may refer to the protection organization and or storage of data. Examples of systems for information management may include without limitation storage systems backup systems archival systems replication systems high availability systems data search systems virtualization systems and the like.

In some embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of produce data protected by and or communicate with one or more systems for information security. As used herein the phrase information security may refer to the control of access to protected data. Examples of systems for information security may include without limitation systems providing managed security services data loss prevention systems identity authentication systems access control systems encryption systems policy compliance systems intrusion detection and prevention systems electronic discovery systems and the like.

According to some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of communicate with and or receive protection from one or more systems for endpoint security. As used herein the phrase endpoint security may refer to the protection of endpoint systems from unauthorized and or illegitimate use access and or control. Examples of systems for endpoint protection may include without limitation anti malware systems user authentication systems encryption systems privacy systems spam filtering services and the like.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may receive and or intercept emergency communications to be transformed transform the emergency communications output a result of the transformation to create information about emergency communications and use the result of the transformation to provide ratings and or alerts. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms connected to and coupled to and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as permitting both direct and indirect i.e. via other elements or components connection. In addition the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. Finally for ease of use the terms including and having and their derivatives as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

