---

title: Application dedicated transceiver communications
abstract: Examples disclosed herein provide systems, methods, and software for application dedicated transceivers. In one example, a method for operating a wireless device includes, in a device application, initiating a request for a dedicated-transceiver. In response to the request, the method further includes, in the device operating system, requesting dedicated-transceiver information from a transceiver system on the device and, once the information is received from the transceiver system, transferring a dedicated-transceiver response to the application. The method also provides, in the device application, initiating a communication handshake with the transceiver system and, upon completion of the handshake, communicating application data to the transceiver system without the use of the operating system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09496949&OS=09496949&RS=09496949
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09496949
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131212
---
Wireless communication devices typically include applications and other software that communicate with base stations using various wireless communication formats. These applications include weather applications file sharing applications email serving applications internet access applications among other possible applications on the wireless device. In operation the applications on the wireless device execute using an operating system such as Android iOS Linux Windows or some other operating system. These operating systems provide frameworks and other elements that allow the applications to work with the device hardware.

In some instances the various applications on the wireless communication device may require a communication. This communication may include sending data across the network or receiving data from the network. To accomplish these tasks the application may transfer application data to the operating system which in turn communicates with various transceivers on the device to communicate the data. Thus the operating system may provide an essential intermediary between the application and the various transceivers.

Examples disclosed herein provide systems methods and software for application dedicated transceivers. In one example a method for operating a wireless device includes in a device application initiating a request for a dedicated transceiver. In response to the request the method further includes in the device operating system requesting dedicated transceiver information from a transceiver system on the device and once the information is received from the transceiver system transferring a dedicated transceiver response to the application. The method also provides in the device application initiating a communication handshake with the transceiver system and upon completion of the handshake communicating application data to the transceiver system without the use of the operating system.

In another example a wireless communication device for secure communication includes an application configured to communicate a dedicated transceiver request to a device operating system receive a dedicated transceiver response from the device operating system initiate a communication handshake with a transceiver system and communicate secure communication data to the transceiver system without utilizing the operating system. The system further includes the device operating system configured to receive the dedicated transceiver request from the application request dedicated transceiver information from the transceiver system and communicate the dedicated transceiver response to the application based on the dedicated transceiver information. The system also includes the transceiver system configured to identify the dedicated transceiver information communicate the dedicated transceiver information to the device operating system respond to the communication handshake from the application and receive the secure communication data from the application.

The following description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects of the best mode may be simplified or omitted. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from the best mode that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described below can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific examples described below but only by the claims and their equivalents.

Wireless communication devices typically include applications that require connections over a communication network. These applications include weather applications email applications game applications amongst other possible applications. When a communication is required the present disclosure suggests systems and methods to provide an application with wireless communications by connecting the application directly with a transceiver. To accomplish this connection the application on the wireless device will communicate with the device operating system to determine the appropriate transceiver. Once the identified transceiver has been returned to the application the application may then directly transfer data to the identified transceiver. Thus the operating system is not a necessary intermediary when application data is sent to the transceivers.

Turning now to illustrates a wireless communication system for application dedicated transceiver communications. Wireless communication system includes wireless communication device and communication system . Wireless communication device further includes transceiver system and processing system which provides processing system software device operating system and application . Wireless communication device communicates with communication system over wireless sector .

In operation wireless communication device may execute a variety of applications and software including processing system software and application . Applications and software on wireless communication device may include email applications file sharing applications news applications amongst many other possible types of applications. Typically when the application or software is executed on the device the software is processed using a device operating system such as device operating system . Device operating system provides frameworks and other elements that allow the applications to work with the device hardware.

In some examples the applications on wireless communication device may require a communication that communicates using transceiver system . Transceiver system includes various radio frequency and antenna elements that allow the device to communicate wirelessly with various base stations using an assortment of wireless communication formats. In the present example application is configured to communicate data with transceiver system directly without the application data being first passed through device operating system . To accomplish this task application will first request device operating system to gather transceiver information from transceiver system . Device operating system will then return a response to the application query indicating the proper connection between application and transceiver system . Application may then communicate directly with transceiver system to transmit data without the use of device operating system .

In some examples application may be a secured application that attempts to avoid the use of device operating system when transmitting or receiving data. In other instances application may be a preferred application that can quickly communicate with transceiver system without the use of device operating system . Application may be configured with operating software and circuitry elements to interact directly with transceiver system . As a result transceiver system may receive and process application data as though application is an operating system passing the data to transceiver system .

To further illustrate the operation of wireless communication device is included. illustrates a method of operating a wireless communication device to facilitate dedicated transceiver communications. The method includes in a device application such as application transferring a dedicated transceiver request for delivery to device operating system . In some examples application may include an application programming interface API to communicate with operating system . This API may include various commands and elements to allow application to gather transceiver information using device operating system .

Once the dedicated transceiver request has been transferred device operating system is configured to receive the request and transfer a dedicated transceiver instruction to transceiver system . This dedicated transceiver instruction allows transceiver system to scan and otherwise determine availability information for the various transceivers included within transceiver system . Availability information or data may include the signal strength for the possible communication networks the signal to noise ratio for the various communication networks security concerns for the various communication networks amongst other possible availability information. In some examples transceiver system may include processing circuitry to determine the best transceiver for communication based at least on the dedicated transceiver instruction and the availability data. In other examples transceiver system may allow device operating system to determine the appropriate transceiver based on the availability data.

Upon receipt of the dedicated transceiver instruction and determination of availability data transceiver system is configured to transfer dedicated transceiver information for delivery device operating system . In some instances the dedicated transceiver information may include an identified transceiver for application based on the availability data. In other examples the dedicated transceiver information may include the availability data itself which may allow operating system to determine the appropriate transceiver for the communication.

Following the transfer of the dedicated transceiver information the method further includes receiving the dedicated transceiver information at device operating system and transferring a dedicated transceiver response for delivery to application . In some instances this response may be formatted based on an API that promotes the interaction of application and operating system . Thus application may query the operating system for a transceiver based on an API and may expect a response from the operating system based on the same API.

Once the response is received by application application may then transmit a communication initiation directly to transceiver system based on the response . By communicating with transceiver system directly application no longer requires the operating system to make external communications over the wireless network. As a result the communication may be faster and more secure in some examples.

In response to the initiation from application transceiver system is configured to set up the communication for application and respond to application indicating that the transceiver is ready for the communication . Based on this response application may then transfer application data directly to transceiver system for communication across the appropriate communication network .

Referring now to illustrates a timing diagram for dedicated transceiver communications on a wireless communication device. As illustrated in timing diagram application may require a communication across a wireless communication network. This communication may include a communication with another wireless communication device a communication with a server connected to the network or any other possible communication from the wireless communication device. Once a communication is required application will send a transceiver request to device operating system . Upon receipt of the transceiver request device operating system will deliver an instruction to transceiver system to determine the appropriate transceiver for the communication.

In some examples transceiver system may determine availability data for the various networks accessible to the wireless communication device. Thus transceiver system may identify network conditions such as signal strength signal to noise ratios potential communication rates amongst other possible availability data. Once the data is gathered by transceiver system transceiver system may then respond with delivery information to device operating system . This delivery information may include the availability data itself or may include a specific transceiver for the communication in some examples.

Based on this delivery information device operating system is then configured to develop a transceiver response for application . In some examples device operating system may determine the appropriate transceiver for the application communication based on the delivery information passed by transceiver system . In other instances device operating system may be configured to pass the identified transceiver from transceiver system to application .

In requesting the transceiver from device operating system application may use an application programming interface or API to interact with operating system . This API may provide functions or routines that specifically allow application to determine a transceiver by communicating with device operating system . Further these functions or routines may have a specified return for the function calls. Thus if application requested a transceiver using the API device operating system should return a transceiver response in an expected format for application .

In addition to the API between application and device operating system a second API may also be used between operating system and transceiver system . This second API may be responsible for generating the instruction for transceiver system and returning the delivery information to device operating system . By generating API functions between the two systems both device operating system and transceiver system may be able to quickly recognize the requests and responses between the two systems.

Once the dedicated transceiver response has been received by application from device operating system application is further configured to initiate a communication with transceiver system . In some examples this initiation may consist of a handshake between the application and the transceiver system such that transceiver system will verify the application and the communication. Once the communication is accepted transceiver system will then transfer an acceptance to application . Based on this acceptance application may then transfer application communications to transceiver system . By communicating directly with transceiver system application no longer requires operating system to accomplish communications. Thus application has a more secure route to transceiver system .

Turning now to illustrates a wireless communication device with dedicated transceiver communication ability. Wireless communication device is an example of wireless communication device although other examples of wireless communication device are possible. Wireless communication device includes transceiver system processing system storage system user interface and power system .

Transceiver system processing system storage system user interface system and power system are communicatively coupled and can communicate over associated discrete links common busses data links power links RF links or other links. Wireless communication device can be distributed or consolidated among equipment or circuitry that together forms the elements of wireless communication device . Wireless communication device may optionally include additional devices features or functionality not discussed here for purposes of brevity.

Transceiver system comprises one or more communication transceiver circuitry portions and communication interface circuitry for communicating over one or more communication links with one or more communication networks. In some examples transceiver system includes wireless transceiver circuitry and antennas for communicating with base stations of a cellular voice and data network among other communication networks. Transceiver system could include radio transceiver equipment and antenna elements for wirelessly exchanging user communications and overhead communications over the associated ones of links among further links. Links could each use various protocols or communication formats such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format including combinations variations or improvements thereof.

Processing system may comprise one or more microprocessors and other circuitry that retrieves and executes software and application from storage system . Processing system may be implemented within a single processing device but may also be distributed across multiple processing devices or sub systems that cooperate in executing program instructions. Examples of processing system include general purpose central processing units application specific processors system on a chip devices and logic devices as well as any other type of processing device combinations or variations thereof.

Storage system may comprise any computer readable storage media or storage device readable by processing system and capable of storing software and application . Storage system may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. In addition to storage media in some implementations storage system may also include communication media over which software or other data can be communicated. Storage system may comprise additional elements such as a controller capable of communicating with processing system . Examples of storage media include random access memory read only memory magnetic disks optical disks flash memory virtual memory and non virtual memory magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by an instruction execution system as well as any combination or variation thereof or any other type of storage media. In no case is the storage media a propagated signal.

In operation processing system may be used to execute software which includes a device operating system. The device operating system may be configured to manage the hardware and resources of wireless communication device and provide common services to various applications such as application . Application may be any application that requires a data communication over communication links . Such an application may include a weather application a file sharing application an email application or any other similar data application. Once a communication is required by application application will inquire the device operating system to determine the proper transceiver connection for the communication. In turn the device operating system will communicate with transceiver system to determine the appropriate dedicated transceiver. In some examples transceiver system may include software and circuitry to determine availability data for the various transceivers in transceiver system . This data may then be communicated back to the device operating system to determine the appropriate transceiver.

Once the availability data has been processed and a transceiver has been identified for the communication a response to the transceiver query will be returned to application . This response may include the identity of the transceiver to be used as well as any other information necessary to accomplish the communication. Upon receipt of the response application is then configured to communicate directly with transceiver system without the use of the operating system. In some instances application may initiate a handshake procedure with transceiver system to start the transfer of data communications between the application and the specific transceiver. Once the handshake is completed application will start transferring data communications directly to transceiver system .

In some examples to communicate with transceiver directly application may include software or hardware to facilitate the communication. This software or hardware may allow application to communicate without the use of the device operating system. Thus application may be completely removed from the device operating system when a communication is required that uses transceiver system .

Power system includes circuitry and a power source to provide power to the elements of wireless communication device . The power source could include a battery solar cell flywheel capacitor thermoelectric generator chemical power source dynamo or other power source. In some examples power system receives power from an external source such as a wall outlet or power adapter. Power system also includes circuitry to condition monitor and distribute electrical power to the elements of wireless communication device .

User interface system includes equipment and circuitry for receiving user input and control such as for engaging in voice calls or data sessions and receiving user instructions for text or video messages among other operations. Examples of the equipment and circuitry for receiving user input and control include push buttons touch screens selection knobs dials switches actuators keys keyboards pointer devices microphones transducers potentiometers non contact sensing circuitry accelerometers global positioning systems or other human interface equipment. User interface system also includes equipment to communicate information to a user of wireless communication device . Examples of the equipment to communicate information to the user could include displays indicator lights lamps light emitting diodes haptic feedback devices audible signal transducers speakers buzzers alarms vibration devices or other indicator equipment including combinations thereof.

Returning to wireless communication device comprises processing system and transceiver system . Processing system further includes processing system software device operating system and application . Transceiver system may include various radio transceivers amplifiers filters modulators wireless modules and signal processing circuitry. Transceiver system can be used to communicate over wireless sector . In some examples transceiver system can be communicatively coupled directly to application . Thus instead of requiring the use of device operating system to execute a communication application may communicate directly with transceiver system .

Processing system may include processing circuitry and other elements to execute software such as processing system software device operating system and application . Processing system may also include user interface systems memory devices non transitory computer readable storage mediums software processing circuitry or some other communication components. Wireless communication device may be a sensor device user device subscriber equipment customer equipment access terminal wireless smartphone computer mobile Internet appliance wireless network interface card media player game console or some other communication apparatus including combinations thereof.

Communication network comprises communication and control systems for providing access to communication services for other devices and networks. Communication network can each provide communication services including communication routing link bridging network communications data exchange or other communication services. In some examples communication network is a cellular voice and data network that can provide voice calls text messages data access or other communication services provided over cellular or wireless communication networks. In some examples communication network includes equipment to provide wireless access to communication services within different coverage areas to user devices route communications between content providers and user devices and facilitate handoffs between equipment of different coverage areas among other operations. Communication network can also comprise elements such as radio access network RAN equipment E UTRAN Node B equipment eNodeB equipment Evolved Node B equipment Mobility Management Entity MME equipment interworking functions IWF Home Subscriber Servers HSS Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA network equipment base stations base transceiver stations BTS base station controllers BSC mobile switching centers MSC home location registers HLR radio node controllers RNC call processing systems authentication authorization and accounting AAA equipment access service network gateways ASN GW packet data switching nodes PDSN home agents HA mobility access gateways MAG Internet access nodes telephony service nodes databases or other communication and control equipment.

Wireless sector includes a wireless link that uses the air or space as the transport media. The wireless link may use various protocols such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Only EVDO Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Long Term Evolution LTE Wireless Fidelity WIFI High Speed Packet Access HSPA or some other wireless communication format.

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

