---

title: Mechanisms for employment with robotic extensions
abstract: Technologies pertaining to a robotic hand are described herein. A protection apparatus is positioned in a joint of the robotic hand, where movement of a link about the joint is driven by a motor. The protection apparatus absorbs torque about the joint caused by an external force. At least a portion of the robotic hand can be covered by an anthropomorphic skin. An apparatus suitable for controlling operation of the robotic hand is also described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09138897&OS=09138897&RS=09138897
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09138897
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131007
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 817 555 filed on Apr. 30 2013 and entitled ROBOTIC HAND ASSEMBLY the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Advanced robotic mechanisms tend to be complex and expensive systems. In an example a conventional robotic hand is associated with several motors that must operate with relatively precise timing to cause fingers and links therein of the robotic hand to be at desired positions. For instance a plurality of motors which are typically located in a forearm or otherwise external to the robotic hand can drive a respective plurality of cables which when driven are configured to move links of fingers of the robotic hand relative to one another. If an element of such robotic hand becomes damaged at least a portion of the robotic hand must be disassembled. The damaged element is then removed and a new or repaired element is placed therein which must then be connected to appropriate mechanical electrical and or electromechanical elements in the robotic hand. It can be ascertained that a robotic hand may be damaged somewhat easily during operation. For instance if a link of a robotic finger is subject to a sudden external force such force can impact the motor by way of the cable that is used to drive the link. Thus for example the motor may be operating such that its output shaft is rotating in a first direction and when the external torsion force is applied to the link the cabling can exert a force that causes the output shaft to suddenly stop or reverse direction potentially damaging the motor and or associated gearing .

Additionally conventional robotic hands are not well suited for performing many tasks that are relatively easily performed by human hands. For instance conventional robotic hands are typically not well suited for the task of lifting a coin lying flat on table and depositing the coin at a desired deposit location. As exteriors of conventional robotic hands tend to be composed of a metal or hard plastic grasping the coin can be difficult. To assist in maintaining the grasp an adhesive may be applied to distal links of robotic fingers however the robotic hand may then have difficulty depositing the coin at the desired deposit location as the coin adheres to the finger of the robotic hand.

Still further conventionally it has been difficult to control operation of a robotic hand in an intuitive manner. For example with respect to conventional robotic hands specialized control panels have been employed wherein the specialized control panels can include joysticks sliders etc. These types of human machine interfaces however do not map to intuitive movements of the human hand. To make up for such deficiency gloves have been designed for use in controlling a robotic hand wherein an exemplary glove has a plurality of sensors thereon that are configured to output data that is indicative of movement of a human hand that is wearing the glove. A robotic hand can be controlled based upon the data output by the sensors. This approach however can be somewhat imprecise as the glove is customized for a hand of a particular size e.g. for a hand of a first user . If a second user wishes to control the robotic hand using the glove and a hand of the second user is not of substantially similar size shape as the hand of the first user data output by the sensors may not be precisely indicative of location of for example a proximal phalange relative to a medial phalange of a particular finger.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a robotic hand. In an exemplary embodiment a protection apparatus can be utilized in a joint of the robotic hand to protect a motor that drives pivoting of a link about the joint. With more particularity the robotic hand includes a robotic finger that comprises a first link that has a proximal end and a distal end and a second link that has a proximal end and a distal end. A joint mechanically couples the distal end of the first link with the proximal end of the second link wherein the second link is pivotable about the joint and can thus be displaced angularly relative to the first link. The joint can include the protection apparatus wherein the protection apparatus comprises an input plate and an output plate. The input plate is mechanically coupled to the motor e.g. by way of a cable and is driven by the motor. Thus rotation of an output shaft of the motor causes the input plate of the protection apparatus to likewise rotate.

The output plate is mechanically coupled to the input plate and is further connected to the proximal end of the second link. When there is no external force applied to either the first link or the second link the input plate and the output plate of the protection apparatus are tightly mechanically coupled such that the input plate and the outlet plate rotate synchronously when the input plate is driven by the motor. When an external force is suddenly applied to either the first link or the second link causing torque at the output plate about its axis of rotation to exceed a threshold the input plate and the output plate become angularly displaced with respect to one another e.g. the input plate and the output plate may rotate asynchronously . Thus the protection apparatus is configured to absorb torque that would otherwise impact the motor.

Furthermore at least a portion of the robotic hand e.g. at least a tip of a distal link of a robotic finger can have an anthropomorphic skin applied thereto. The skin can comprise an interior layer and an exterior layer wherein the interior layer is formed of a first material and the exterior layer is formed of a second material. For example the first material may have a thickness that is greater than a thickness of the second material. Further stiffness of the material of the exterior layer may be greater than stiffness of the material of the interior layer.

In yet another exemplary embodiment an apparatus that is particularly well suited for intuitively controlling operation of a robotic hand is described herein. The mechanism is configured to measure angular displacement between phalanges of respective human fingers regardless of size of a human hand upon which the apparatus is placed. Accordingly the apparatus need not be recalibrated for each independent user.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a robotic hand are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to an isometric view of an exemplary robotic hand is illustrated. The robotic hand comprises a frame . In an exemplary embodiment the frame can comprise a plurality of receiving regions not shown wherein each receiving region can comprise respective electrical contacts which may be spring contacts rather than connectors .

The robotic hand further comprises a plurality of modular robotic fingers that are removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions of the frame . In an exemplary embodiment actuators motors that are configured to cause robotic links of a respective modular robotic finger to move relative to other robotic links can be located in the respective modular fingers rather than the frame . In other embodiments such motors may be included in the frame or external to the robotic hand .

Each modular robotic finger in the plurality of modular robotic fingers can comprise respective electrical contacts that contact respective electrical contacts of the frame when a modular robotic finger is attached to the frame . For example the frame can comprise a first receiving region that includes first electrical contacts. The first modular robotic finger can be removably attached to the frame at the first receiving region. The first modular robotic finger includes second electrical contacts that contact the first electrical contacts of the first receiving region of the frame when the first modular robotic finger is coupled to the frame at the first receiving region. Accordingly an electrical connection is formed between control circuitry included in the frame and at least one motor in the first modular robotic finger wherein the electrical connection is formed by way of spring contacts. Accordingly the electrical connection formed between the motor of the first modular robotic finger and the control circuitry of the frame does not impede detachment of the first modular robotic finger from the frame .

Each modular robotic finger in the plurality of modular robotic fingers can respectively be removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions of the frame by way of respective mechanical fuses wherein a mechanical fuse is configured to trigger break when a corresponding modular robotic finger experiences a predefined load condition. For example the first modular robotic finger can be coupled to the first receiving region of the frame by way of a first mechanical fuse wherein the first mechanical fuse is configured to trigger upon the first modular robotic finger experiencing a predefined load condition. In an exemplary embodiment the mechanical fuse can be configured to trigger when a normal force between the first receiving region of the frame and the first modular robotic finger exceeds a predefined threshold thereby causing the first modular robotic finger to detach from the frame . In another exemplary embodiment the first mechanical fuse can be configured to trigger when a sheer force between the first receiving region of the frame and the first modular robotic finger exceeds a predefined threshold thereby causing the first modular robotic finger to detach from the frame .

In an exemplary embodiment the mechanical fuse can be formed through utilization of magnets. Specifically a first magnet having a first polarity can be positioned in the first receiving region of the frame and a second magnet having a second polarity opposite the first polarity can be positioned in a proximal link of the first modular robotic finger thereby forming a mechanical fuse between the proximal link of the first modular robotic finger and the frame . In another example the frame can be at least partially formed by a ferromagnetic material such that magnets in the proximal link of the first modular robotic finger and other modular robotic fingers are attracted to the frame. In yet another example the frame can comprise magnets and the plurality of fingers can be at least partially composed of a ferromagnetic material.

As will be described in greater detail herein joints in the modular robotic fingers can include respective protection apparatuses wherein a protection apparatus is configured to protect a respective motor that drives movement of a link about a joint that includes the protection apparatus. Generally the protection apparatus is configured to protect the motor and or associated cabling and gearing from sudden torque about the joint. In another exemplary embodiment the robotic hand can include a skin that covers at least a portion thereof. The skin is configured to emulate the elasticity of human skin in a direction normal to the skin surface and further emulate stiffness of human skin in orthogonal directions that are tangential to the skin surface. In still yet another exemplary embodiment movement of the robotic hand can be controlled based upon angular displacement of phalanges of a human hand that are measured by an apparatus that is suitable for human hands of different shapes sizes and need not be calibrated.

With reference now to a side view of the exemplary first modular robotic finger is illustrated. The first modular robotic finger includes a proximal link that has a proximal end and a distal end a medial link that has a proximal end and a distal end and a distal link that has a proximal end and a distal end. The first modular robotic finger further comprises a first joint that facilitates adduction and abduction of the links a second joint that facilitates flexion and tension about the second joint and a third joint that facilitates flexion and extension about the third joint .

With more particularity the second joint mechanically couples the distal end of the proximal link with the proximal end of the medial link and the third joint mechanically couples the distal end of the medial link with the proximal end of the distal link . In an exemplary embodiment a first motor can drive rotary motion of the medial link about the first joint a second motor can drive rotary motion of the medial link about the second joint and a third motor can drive rotary motion of the distal link about the third joint .

In accordance with an example an output shaft of the first motor can be mechanically coupled to the distal end of the proximal link thereby facilitating adduction and abduction about the first joint . It can be ascertained however that sudden torque e.g. having an amplitude above a threshold applied about the first joint may damage or destroy the first motor. For instance the output shaft of the first motor can be rotating to cause adduction about the first joint . An external force applied to the medial link however may result in sudden torque about the first joint that opposes the rotation of the output shaft of the first motor. Accordingly a protection apparatus as will be described in greater detail below can be included in the first joint and the joints and to protect the first motor from the torque about the first joint .

For example the protection apparatus can comprise an input plate and an output plate. The input plate is mechanically coupled to the output shaft of the first motor such that the input plate is driven by the output shaft of the first motor. The output plate is mechanically coupled to the input plate such that the output plate is driven by the input plate. The output plate is mechanically coupled to the proximal end of the medial link such that rotation of the output plate causes rotation of the medial link about the first joint . When there is no external force suddenly applied that creates torque about the first joint or when the rate of change of the torque is below a first threshold or the amplitude of the torque is below a second threshold the input plate and the output plate of the protection apparatus rotate synchronously such that rotation of the output shaft of the first motor causes rotation of the medial link about the first joint . If however there is a sudden torque about the first joint e.g. the rate of change of torque about the joint exceeds the first threshold and the amplitude of the torque exceeds the second threshold then the input plate and the output plate can rotate asynchronously e.g. the output plate of the protection apparatus becomes angularly misaligned from the input plate of the protection apparatus. As will be described in greater detail below the torque about the first joint can be absorbed by a coil spring in the protection apparatus such that the torque does not impact the first motor.

As noted above the second joint and the third joint can also include protection apparatuses. In an exemplary embodiment the proximal link of the first modular robotic finger can include a second motor and a third motor. The second motor drives rotary movement of the medial link about the second joint by way of a first cable and the third motor drives rotary movement of the distal link about the third joint by way of a second cable. An input plate of a protection apparatus in the second joint is coupled to the first cable and an input plate of a protection apparatus in the third joint is coupled to the second cable. Thus when there is no torque created by external forces about the second joint or the third joint the second motor and the third motor drive the first cable and the second cable respectively which in turn drive the input plate of the protection apparatus in the second joint and the input plate of the protection apparatus in the third joint . This in turn drives the output plates of the protection apparatuses thereby driving rotary movement of the medial link and or the distal link about the joints and respectively . When torque is suddenly applied with a relatively high amplitude the protection apparatuses in the joints absorb such torque thereby protecting the motors in the proximal link .

The input plate additionally includes a second aperture that can optionally be tapered along its radial length wherein the second aperture tapers in a counterclockwise direction when the input plate is viewed from its front. The output plate includes a corresponding second aperture that can likewise optionally be tapered along its radial length wherein the second aperture tapers in a clockwise direction when the output plate is viewed from its front. Thus as shown in the second aperture of the input plate and the second aperture of the output plate can be aligned when no torque is applied about an axis of rotation of the protection apparatus .

An interior portion of the output plate includes a raised circular mating region that extends towards the input plate and is located generally at a center of the output plate . The first aperture of the output plate is shown as extending through the mating region . The circular edge of the mating region additionally includes a recessed region wherein the recessed region is formed to include a hook shaped receiving slot . An optional aperture in the recessed region extends through the output plate .

The input plate is is a mirror image of the output plate . Accordingly while not viewable from the view of the protection apparatus shown in and the input plate comprises a raised circular mating region that extends inwardly towards the output plate . The mating region of the input plate includes a recessed region that is formed to include a hook shaped receiving slot.

The protection apparatus further includes a loaded coil spring that mechanically couples the input plate with the output plate . The coil spring is spiral shaped and has a first end and a second end . The first end is formed as a hook that is turned inwardly towards a center of the spiral and the second end is located at an exterior of the spiral and formed as a T junction the T junction having a first side and a second side that extend laterally from a remainder of the coil spring .

When the protection apparatus is assembled the coil spring is loaded wound . A first side of the T junction at the second end of the coil spring is inserted in the second aperture of the input plate and a second side of the T junction is inserted in the second aperture of the output plate . The hook at the first end of the coil spring is positioned to mate with the hook shaped receiving slot of the output plate and the corresponding hook shaped receiving slot of the input plate not shown .

In operation when the input plate is driven by a motor such that torque on the input plate about an axis of rotation of the protection apparatus is below a predefined threshold the input plate and the output plate rotate synchronously. When however an external load coupled to the output plate causes a sudden torque to be applied to the output plate and torque at the output plate about the axis of rotation of the protection apparatus exceeds the threshold the input plate and the output plate rotate asynchronously e.g. an angular displacement occurs between the input plate and the output plate such that the input plate and the output plate become misaligned .

With more particularity when torque that is above the threshold is suddenly applied to the output plate the coil spring absorbs such force thus protecting the motor coupled to the input plate from being impacted by the force. In an exemplary operation of the protection apparatus the protection apparatus can be included in the second joint of the first modular robotic finger . An external force may be applied to the medial link of the robotic finger thereby generating a sudden torque at the output plate e.g. where the torque exceeds the threshold in a counterclockwise direction when viewing the interior of the output plate . The output plate thus rotates in the counterclockwise direction relatively quickly. When this occurs the hooked first end of the coil spring remains mated with the corresponding hook shaped receiving slot of the output plate while the output plate rotates thereby further loading the coil spring . While the output plate rotates the first side of the T junction at the second end of the coil spring remains stationary in space and does not prevent rotation of the output plate due to the second aperture of the output plate .

At the input plate the hooked first end of the coil spring becomes unmated from the hooked shaped receiving slot thereof e.g. due to the hooked first end remaining mated to the hook shaped receiving slot of the output plate when the output plate rotates . Thus the input plate remains relatively stationary as the coil spring absorbs the sudden torsion force. When the medial link is no longer subjected to the external force the coil spring becomes uncoiled thereby re aligning the output plate with the input plate .

The protection apparatus can absorb sudden torque at the output plate in either rotary direction. Continuing with the example set forth above an external force may applied to the medial link that creates sudden torque at the output plate in the clockwise direction about the axis of rotation of the protection apparatus . When such torque is above the threshold the output plate rotates in the clockwise direction with the tapered end of the second aperture of the output plate grabbing the first side of the T junction at the second end of the coil spring . The hooked first end of the coil spring remains relatively stationary in space and becomes unmated from the hook shaped receiving slot as the output plate rotates thereby further winding the coil spring .

At the input plate the hooked first end remains mated with the hook shaped receiving slot thereof and the second side of the T junction of the second end of the coil spring slides in a clockwise direction in the second aperture of the input plate . Thus the input plate remains relatively stationary as the output plate rotates as the torque is absorbed by the coil spring . When the output plate is no longer subject to the torque the coil spring uncoils thereby rotating the output plate back into alignment with the input plate . It can thus be ascertained that the protection apparatus is designed to cause the coil spring to absorb sudden torque applied to the output plate such that a motor coupled to the input plate is buffered from such torque.

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of the distal link of the first modular robotic finger is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment at least an inner region of the distal link can comprise an anthropomorphic skin that can be particularly well suited for grasping and releasing objects. The anthropomorphic skin comprises an internal layer composed of a first material and an external layer composed of a second material. The internal layer can have a first thickness while the external layer can have a second thickness which is less than the first thickness. Moreover the external layer can have a stiffness that is greater than a stiffness of the internal layer .

In an exemplary embodiment the internal layer can be formed of silicone with a thickness of approximately 4 mm while the exterior layer can also be formed of silicone e.g. a different type of silicone with a thickness of approximately 1 mm. Further the external layer can have a durometer of shore A and the internal layer can have a durometer of shore OO . Accordingly rather than the skin being a single thin stiff homogeneous material the anthropomorphic skin can be composed of the external layer which is a thin layer composed of a stiffer material and the internal layer which is a thicker layer composed of a stiffer material . The two layer skin is associated with superior performance when compared to a conventional one layer skin utilized in robotic hands with respect to grasping and manipulating objects. Specifically the two layer skin can replicate human skin for robotic hands where it is very elastic in the direction normal to the skin surface but far more stiff in orthogonal directions that are tangential to the skin surface.

With reference now to an exemplary apparatus that can be used in connection with computing relative angles between phalanges of human fingers is illustrated. The apparatus is shown as being coupled to a pointer finger of a hand . It is to be understood however that apparatuses such as the apparatus can be simultaneously placed on multiple fingers. The apparatus comprises a first plate that is configured to be positioned flat on a metacarpal bone of the pointer finger wherein a support plate extends orthogonally from the first plate . A first hinge mechanism is configured to be positioned flat on the proximal phalange of the pointer finger and a second hinge mechanism is configured to be positioned flat on the medial phalange of the pointer finger .

The apparatus further comprises a first hinge wherein the first hinge comprises a first hinge arm and a second hinge arm . The first hinge arm comprises connector points and positioned along the length of the first hinge arm and the second hinge arm comprises connector points and positioned along the length of the second hinge arm . The apparatus further comprises a second hinge wherein the second hinge comprises a third hinge arm and a fourth hinge arm . The third hinge arm comprises connector points and positioned along the length of the third hinge arm and the fourth hinge arm comprises connector points and positioned along the length of the fourth hinge arm .

The first hinge mechanism includes a first pair of connector points and extending along a length of a first side of the first hinge mechanism e.g. a side facing the metacarpal bone of the pointer finger . A line extending through the connector points and is in parallel with a line extending through the connector points and of the first hinge arm of the first hinge . The first hinge mechanism further includes a second pair of connector points and extending along a length of a second side of the first hinge mechanism e.g. a side facing the medial phalange of the pointer finger . A line extending through the connector points and is in parallel with a line extending through the connector points and of the fourth hinge arm of the second hinge . The second hinge mechanism comprises a third pair of connector points and extending along a length of a first side of the second hinge mechanism e.g. a side facing the proximal phalange of the pointer finger . A line extending through the connector points and is in parallel with a line extending through the connector points and of the third hinge arm of the second hinge mechanism .

A first pair of parallel bars and of equal length are connected to the first hinge mechanism at the connector points and respectively and are connected to the first hinge arm of the first hinge at the connector points and respectively. The bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point and the bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point .

A second pair of parallel bars and of equal length are connected to the first hinge mechanism at the connector points and respectively and are connected to the fourth hinge arm of the second hinge at the connector points and respectively. The bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point and the bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point .

A third pair of parallel bars and of equal length are connected to the second hinge mechanism at the connector points and respectively and are connected to the third hinge arm of the second hinge at the connector points and respectively. The bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point and the bar can pivot about the connector point and the connector point .

The support plate includes a pair of connector points and . A straight bar is connected to the connector point of the support plate and the connector point of the second hinge arm of the first hinge . A curved bar is connected to the connector point of the support plate and the connector point of the second hinge arm of the first hinge .

A first sensor is positioned relative to the first hinge to output a signal that is indicative of an angle between the first hinge arm and the second hinge arm . A second sensor is positioned relative to the second hinge to output a signal that is indicative of an angle between the third hinge arm and the fourth hinge arm of the second hinge . A third sensor not shown can be configured to measure adduction abduction of the pointer finger directly. The first sensor and the second sensor can be Hall Effect sensors optical sensors etc.

The apparatus can be utilized to compute a bend angle between the metacarpal bone and the proximal phalange of the pointer finger and a bend angle between the proximal phalange and the medial phalange of the pointer finger . Further the apparatus can be used to relatively precisely compute such angles regardless of size shape of a hand upon which the apparatus is situated. Specifically regardless of size and shape of a hand a position of the first plate relative to the first hinge mechanism remains constant. As shown by the arrows in however the position of the second hinge mechanism relative to the first hinge mechanism can alter. Due to the structure of the apparatus the angles and are indicative of and regardless of size of the hand . Specifically a function that maps angles and to the angles and respectively can be learned when the apparatus is fixed to the hand .

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates utilizing a protection apparatus to protect a motor from an externally applied force is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an output shaft of a motor is coupled to a cable. At the cable is coupled to an input plate of a protection apparatus such as the input plate of the protection apparatus . At the output plate of the protection apparatus is coupled to an output load. Thus for example the output plate of the protection apparatus can be coupled to an output shaft that drives rotary motion of a robotic link. The methodology completes at .

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for controlling a robotic hand is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at angles between phalanges of a human finger are measured. Pursuant to an example the apparatus can be utilized to measure such angles. At control signals are transmitted to a robotic hand based upon the measured angles. For instance the control signals can cause the robotic hand to mimic the motion of the hand that is wearing the apparatus . The methodology completes at .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

