---

title: Mobile device, program, and control method
abstract: When a pre-determined time period has elapsed after a user access is last detected, a mobile device performs protection processing on account-related information. The mobile device includes an access detection unit that detects that a user accesses the mobile device, and a time period determination unit that determines whether or not a pre-determined time period has elapsed from a last user access time point at which the user last accessed the mobile device. The mobile device further includes a storage location acquisition unit that acquires a location in the data storage unit in which the account-related information is stored, and a protection unit that performs the protection processing on the account-related information based on the storage location of the account-related information acquired by the storage location acquisition unit, when the time period determination unit determines that a pre-determined time period has elapsed from the last user access time point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450965&OS=09450965&RS=09450965
owner: NEC CORPORATION
number: 09450965
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130125
---
In recent years many mobile devices are found using cloud computing and an account on a network is required for using the devices. The account is a right for a user to log into a specific device and the like and information for specifying an account is referred to as account information. For example the account information includes a combination of an ID for identifying a user and a password. Various types of information which is used and generated in the mobile device are stored on the network as account related information associated with the account information. An example of the account related information includes e mails schedules contact information configuration files music videos and the like. By storing the account related information on a network with being associated with the account information the same environment can be restored when the user changes the mobile device. Further various types of data and environment settings may be shared with another mobile device or a device such as a personal computer hereinafter PC . Furthermore by holding a plurality of accounts and setting an environment for each account the user may easily change the environment settings of a device by switching the account.

In many mobile devices using accounts the account information provided by the user and the account related information acquired from the network are stored in the device. Therefore if the user loses the device there is a risk of that a third party views the account information and the account related information.

Patent Document 1 discloses a technology of monitoring a state of a mobile device and automatically deleting data which is pre designated by the user when the state meets a pre designated condition. The user sets three conditions in advance as follows 1 an upper limit time to allow the continuation of a state with respect to each of various states of the mobile device such as a power off 2 operations of the mobile device which trigger the process of data deletion and 3 data to be deleted. The mobile device disclosed in Patent Document 2 checks whether or not the respective states designated in 1 continue longer than the upper limit time when any operation designated in 2 is performed and deletes data designated in 3 when any state continues longer than the upper limit time.

Patent Document 2 discloses a technology of monitoring two points including 1 whether a user is present near a device and 2 whether or not a radio wave condition is out of range and of protecting data according to the monitored status by processing of locking access to data in the device saving data to an external device or deleting data.

As a technology aimed at protecting data in addition thereto there are Patent Documents 3 to 6. Further Patent Documents 7 and 8 disclose technologies of managing accounts through the use restriction of an account or automatic deleting in a server which manages accounts. Patent Document 9 discloses a technology of lowering a security level of data in accordance with the passage of time or the like.

A plurality of pieces of account related information which are present in a mobile device are individually used by respective applications while not being collectively controlled. Therefore it is difficult to prevent the leakage of various types of account related information stored in the mobile device.

As the technology disclosed in the Patent Document 1 there is a technology of automatically protecting data which is selected in advance by the user but it is difficult to let the user select various types of account related information among data that the mobile device holds. The reasons being first the mobile device has a large amount of data in many cases and second the account related information includes data which the user does not normally know such as data used only inside an application or data for storing an environmental setting in some cases.

Further although there are some technologies such as those described in the Patent Document 1 for achieving protection of all data contained in the mobile device and those described in the Patent Document 2 for achieving protection of some pieces of data such as an address book these technologies may not collectively protect the account related information.

Accordingly in methods which are proposed in the respective Patent Documents described above it is difficult to prevent the leakage of various types of account related information which are scattered in the mobile device.

An object of the present invention is to provide a mobile device a program and a control method which prevent the leakage of account related information stored in the mobile device.

A mobile device provided by the present invention is a mobile device in which a plurality of applications are installed the mobile device including a storage location acquisition unit for acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications an access detection unit for detecting a user access to the mobile device a time period determination unit for determining whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the access detection unit detects a last user access and a protection unit for applying protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired by the storage location acquisition unit when the time period determination unit determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

A program provided by the present invention is a program for controlling a mobile device in which a plurality of applications are installed the program causing the mobile device to have a function of acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications a function of detecting a user access to the mobile device a function of determining whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the function of detecting a user access detects a last user access and a function of applying protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired by the function of acquiring a storage location of each piece of the account related information when the function of determining whether or not the pre determined period has elapsed detects that the pre determined period has elapsed.

A control method provided by the present invention is a control method of controlling a mobile device in which a plurality of applications are installed the method including a step of causing the mobile device to acquire a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications a step of causing the mobile device to detect a user access to the mobile device a step of causing the mobile device to determine whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the step of detecting a user access detects a last user access and a step of causing the mobile device to apply protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired in the step of acquiring a storage location of the account related information when the step of determining whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

According to the present invention provided are a mobile device a program and a control method which prevent leakage of account related information stored in the mobile device.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to drawings. In addition in all drawings the same components are denoted by the same reference numerals and thus the description will not be further described appropriately.

In addition in the description given below the components of each apparatus show blocks in functional units rather than the configuration in the hardware units. The components of each apparatus may be implemented by any combination of hardware and software such as a CPU a memory a program for implementing the components illustrated in the drawings which are loaded in the memory a storage media such as a hard disk that stores the program and an interface for network connection in any computers. There are many variations of the implementation method and the apparatus.

The mobile device includes an access detection unit and a time period determination unit . The access detection unit detects that the user accesses the mobile device . The time period determination unit determines whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed from a point of time at which the user last accessed the mobile device hereinafter the last access time point .

The mobile device further includes a storage location acquisition unit a protection unit and a data storage unit . The data storage unit stores various types of data as well as account related information. The storage location acquisition unit acquires where the account related information is stored in the data storage unit . When the time period determination unit determines that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs protection processing on the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information which is acquired by the storage location acquisition unit .

As described above the time period determination unit determines whether a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point and the protection unit protects the account related information when the pre determined time period has elapsed after the last access time point. Thus it is possible to prevent the leakage of the account related information.

A method by which the access detection unit detects that the user has accessed the mobile device is a known technology. For example in general an operating system OS has a function of detecting whether hardware under its own control is operated. The access detection unit detects the user access using such a kind of known technology.

There are various protection processings that the protection unit performs. For example there are processing of removing account related information and a method of converting the account related information into differently expressed information by encryption and obfuscation. Further there is a method of saving the account related information in an external device when the mobile device is connected through a communication line to the external device capable of storing the account related information. Note that the communication line may be implemented in a wireless or wired manner or by a combination of wireless and wired manners.

There are various methods of acquiring the storage location of the account related information by the storage location acquisition unit . For example there is a method of providing an Application Programming Interface API used for storing the account related information from an OS or a middleware with respect to each application. An API for storing data in an area which is defined in advance by the storage location acquisition unit may be an example of such APIs. In this case the storage location acquisition unit acquires the above defined area as the storage location of the account related information. In addition an API for writing the storage location in a table which indicates the storage location of the account related information and is managed by the storage location acquisition unit when an application stores the account related information may be that. In this case the storage location acquisition unit acquires the storage location of the account related information by referring to the table.

The time period determination unit determines whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point by acquiring the latest access time point from the access detection unit . Here the access time point may be represented by any of or a combination of various types of information representing a date and time a date a time and a day of the week of the access.

There are various methods for delivering the latest access time point between the time period determination unit and the access detection unit . For example there are a method in which the time period determination unit acquires the latest access time point by repeatedly inquiring of the access detection unit a method in which the access detection unit notifies the time period determination unit of the latest access time point and a method in which a memory region that can be shared between the time period determination unit and the access detection unit is prepared and the latest access time point is delivered through the shared memory region. Specifically for example when access from the user is detected the access detection unit writes the latest access time point into the shared memory region and the time period determination unit acquires the latest access time point by repeatedly checking the contents in the shared memory region.

As a specific method in which the time period determination unit determines the elapse of a pre determined time period there is a method in which for example a difference between the latest access time point and the last access time point is calculated as an elapsed time and it is determined that the pre determined time period has elapsed when the elapsed time is longer than the pre determined time period.

There are various methods of detecting by the protection unit that the time period determination unit has determined the elapse of the pre determined time period. For example there are a method in which the protection unit detects the determination by repeatedly inquiring of the time period determination unit and a method in which the protection unit detects the determination by receiving a notification from the time period determination unit . In addition there is also a method in which a memory that can be shared between the protection unit and the time period determination unit is prepared and the detection is performed using the shared memory region.

There are various methods of storing the last access time point. For example there is a method of storing the last access time point in the time period determination unit . In this case the time period determination unit determines whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point to the latest access time point and then stores the latest access time point as a new last access time point in the timing storage unit . In addition there is a method of storing the last access time point in the access detection unit . In addition the access detection unit may store the last access time point therein. In this case the access detection unit may perform for example the delivery of the latest access time point described above and also the delivery of the last access time point.

There are various methods of setting a pre determined time period which is a trigger to perform the protection of the account related information. For example there are a method in which the user inputs the pre determined time period to the mobile device a method of transmitting the pre determined time period which is input from another device to the mobile device through a communication line and a method in which the mobile device acquires the pre determined time period which is stored in an external server or the like from another device through a communication line.

First in step S the process waits until the access detection unit detects the user access. Then when the access detection unit detects the user access the process proceeds to step S.

In step S the time period determination unit compares the latest access time point detected by the access detection unit with the last access time point recorded in the timing storage unit . As a result of comparison when it is determined that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the process proceeds to step S in order to perform the protection processing of the account related information. When a pre determined time period has not elapsed the process proceeds to step S.

In step S the protection unit acquires the storage location of the account related information acquired by the storage location acquisition unit . Then in step S the protection unit performs the protection processing of the account related information.

When the process proceeds from step S to step S the time period determination unit stores the latest access time point as a new last access time point in the timing storage unit in step S. Then the process proceeds to step S and waits until a new user access occurs.

As described above the protection processing of the account related information is performed when a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point whereas the protection processing of the account related information is not performed when the interval between the user accesses is within a pre determined time period.

With the above configuration according to the present exemplary embodiment when the time period determination unit detects that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs the protection processing of the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information that the storage location acquisition unit acquires. Thus when the mobile device is not accessed for a certain time period the account related information is collectively protected and thus it is possible to prevent the leakage of the account related information.

The mobile device in Exemplary Embodiment 2 includes a timer unit . The timer unit receives the time period setting and detects that the set time period has elapsed. In Exemplary Embodiment 2 when the access detection unit detects the user access the timer unit is set for a pre determined time period described above. By doing so the timer unit monitors the elapsed time from the last access time point and detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed. When there has been access by the user before a pre determined time period has elapsed the timer unit is re set for the pre determined time period and thus the timer unit monitors the elapsed time from a new last access time point.

When the elapse of a pre determined time period is detected by the timer unit the time period determination unit performs the protection processing of the account related information.

As described above the time period determination unit determines that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point and the protection unit protects the account related information when the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point. Thus it is possible to prevent leakage of the account related information. In addition by using the timer unit it is possible to immediately protect the account related information when the elapse of the pre determined time period is detected.

There are various methods of setting the timer unit for a pre determined time period. For example there are a method in which the access detection unit sets the pre determined time period when the access detection unit detects the user access and a method in which the time period determination unit sets the pre determined time period when the time period determination unit ascertains that the user access is detected by the access detection unit .

There are various methods of detection by the time period determination unit that the timer unit has detected the elapse of the pre determined time period. For example there are a method of detecting by receiving a notification from the timer unit and a method of detecting by that the time period determination unit repeatedly inquiries of the timer unit . In addition there may be a method in which some memory regions are shared between the time period determination unit and the timer unit the timer unit writes information indicating the elapse of the pre determined time period into the shared memory when the pre determined time period has elapsed and the time period determination unit monitors the shared memory so as to detect the writing of the information.

First in step S the process waits until the access detection unit detects a user access and the process proceeds to step S after the access detection unit detects the user access. In step S the timer unit is set for the pre determined time period. Then in step S the process waits until the state becomes either 1 a new user access is detected or 2 the pre determined time period set in the timer unit has elapsed. Then when the state becomes either 1 or 2 the process proceeds to step S.

In step S it is determined which one of 1 and 2 is established in step S. When a state of 1 is established the process proceeds to step S. When a state of 2 is established the process proceeds to step S. Since the processing performed after step S is processing of protecting the account related information and is the same as that indicated with the same reference numerals in the description thereof will not be repeated.

When the process proceeds from step S to step S the setting of the pre determined time period is performed again in the timer unit . In this manner when a new user access occurs before the pre determined time period has elapsed set in the timer unit the elapsed time from the last access time point is monitored again by re setting the setting time of the timer unit without performing the protection processing of the account related information.

Through the above processing the protection processing of the account related information is performed when a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last user access whereas the protection processing of the account related information is not performed while the intervals between the user accesses are within the pre determined time period.

With the above configuration according to the present exemplary embodiment when the time period determination unit detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs the protection processing on the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information acquired by the storage location acquisition unit . Thus when the mobile device is not accessed by the user for a certain time period the account related information can be collectively protected. In addition since the elapsed time from the last access time point is detected using the timer unit it is possible to immediately perform the protection processing of the account related information when a pre determined time period has elapsed.

When the mobile device has a plurality of accounts the mobile device according to Exemplary Embodiment 3 detects the user access for each account and performs the protection processing on the account related information for each account. Specifically when the access detection unit detects the user access the access time point is stored with being associated with the account of the user who is currently logged in. Then the time period determination unit determines whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point for each account. Then when there is an account for which the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection processing is performed only on the account related information associated with the account. By doing so it is possible to perform the protection processing only on the account related information of the account having a high risk of leakage.

In Exemplary Embodiment 3 the time period determination unit or the access detection unit stores the last access time point for each account. The timing storage unit stores the last access time point for each account for example in the last access time point table shown in . The last access time point table includes for example a user ID for identifying an account and the last access time point which is the last access time point corresponding to the account.

In Exemplary Embodiment 3 a pre determined time period which is a trigger for protection of the account related information may be set for each account or a common value may be used.

The details of the protection processing of the account related information in the present exemplary embodiment will be described using the flow chart of . As described above in the present exemplary embodiment the protection of the account related information is performed for each account.

First in step S the process waits until the access detection unit detects a user access. If the access detection unit detects the user access the process proceeds to step S. Here suppose that the mobile device is logged in with the user ID of the account of alice hereinafter the account alice when the access detection unit detects the user access in S.

In step S the time period determination unit compares the latest access time point of the account alice detected by the access detection unit in step S with the last access time point of the account alice. For example when the last access time point is stored in the last access time point table shown in a record of user ID alice is in the first row and thus the last access time point stored in the last access time point of the record of the first row is referred to. Then when a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point of the account alice the process proceeds to step S. On the other hand when a pre determined time period has not elapsed from the last access time point of the account alice the process proceeds to step S.

When the process proceeds from step S to step S in step S the protection unit acquires the storage location of the account related information which is associated with the account alice from the storage location acquisition unit . Then in step S the protection unit performs the protection processing on the account related information associated with the account alice. Then the process returns to step S and waits until a new user access occurs.

When the process proceeds from step S to step S the latest access time point is stored as the last access time point of the account alice. For example when the last access time point is stored in the last access time point table shown in the latest access time point is stored in the last access time point of the record of the first row. Then the process proceeds to step S. In this manner with respect to the account detected in step S it is determined whether a pre determined time period has not elapsed from the last access time point and when the pre determined time period has not elapsed the last access time point is updated and then the process waits until a user access occurs again.

Through the processing of the above flow it is determined whether a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point for each account and the account related information is protected for each account.

As an example in a method of comparing the latest user access time point with the last access time point is used as a method of determining whether a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point. However the method of determining whether a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point is not limited to the above method. For example similarly to Exemplary Embodiment 2 the method of determination using the timer unit may be used.

With the above configuration according to the present exemplary embodiment when the time period determination unit detects that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs the protection processing of the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information that the storage location acquisition unit acquires. Thus when the user does not access the mobile device for a certain time period the account related information can be collectively protected. In addition the time period determination unit determines whether the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point for each account. When there is an account for which the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit protects the account related information associated with the account. Thus it is possible to perform the protection processing only on the account related information of the account having a high risk of leakage.

The mobile device includes an access restriction unit that restricts the data access by the user. The protection unit includes processing of restricting access to the account related information as the protection processing performed on the account related information. Specifically the protection unit protects the account related information by instructing the access restriction unit to restrict accesses to the account related information. For example a setting of rejecting all accesses to the account related information is performed. In addition thereto there is a method of setting accessibility to the account related information for each type of access such as writing reading and execution.

There are various methods of implementing access restriction by the access restriction unit . For example there is a method in which an OS or a middleware hooks a user access to data and checks which data is accessed and the access is rejected when the account related information is to be accessed. When the accessibility is set for each type of access the type of access is also determined and the access is rejected or permitted according to each type of accesses. In addition when the account related information is stored as a file there is a method of performing the access restriction by a method of changing the access authority of the file so as to inhibit access by all users. When the accessibility is set for each type of access the access authority is set for each type of access. In addition when the account related information is stored in a memory there is also a method of setting the memory region as an access prohibited region. Also in this case access authority is set for each type of access when the accessibility is set for each type of access.

With the above configuration according to the present exemplary embodiment when the time period determination unit detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs the protection processing on the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information that the storage location acquisition unit acquires. Thus when the mobile device is not accessed by the user for a certain time period the account related information can be collectively protected. In addition by protecting the account related information with a method in which the access restriction unit restricts access to the account related information the protection of the account related information can be performed in a fine grained fashion so as to inhibit only writing only reading and vice versa.

The mobile device of Exemplary Embodiment 5 performs protection of account information in addition to the account related information. The details are as follows. First the storage location acquisition unit stores the storage location of the account information in addition to the account related information. Then when the time period determination unit determines that a pre determined time period has elapsed from the last time point of a user access the protection unit acquires the storage location of the account information and the account related information from the storage location acquisition unit and performs the protection of the account related information and the account information.

A method in which the storage location acquisition unit acquires the storage location of the account information is the same as a method in which the storage location acquisition unit acquires the storage location of the account related information.

A method of delivering the storage location of the account information between the protection unit and the storage location acquisition unit is the same as a method of delivering the storage location of the account related information between the storage location acquisition unit and the storage location acquisition unit .

With the above configuration according to the present exemplary embodiment when the time period determination unit detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed from the last access time point the protection unit performs the protection processing on the account related information based on the storage location of the account related information that the storage location acquisition unit acquires. Thus when the mobile device is not accessed by the user for a certain time period the account related information can be collectively protected. In addition more pieces of data associated with the account can be protected by protecting the account information as well as the account related information.

Although exemplary embodiments of the present invention with reference to the drawings has described above they are illustrative of the present invention and the combinations of the above exemplary embodiments and the various configurations other than the above exemplary embodiments can be employed.

a storage location acquisition unit which acquires a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications 

a time period determination unit which determines whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the access detection unit detects a last user access and

a protection unit which applies protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired by the storage location acquisition unit when the time period determination unit determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

The mobile device according to Note 1 further comprising a timing storage unit which stores a time point of each user access which is detected by the access detection unit 

wherein when the access detection unit detects a latest user access the time period determination unit acquires from the timing storage unit a time point of a user access immediately previous to the latest user access as a time point of the last access and compares the time point of the last access with a time point of the latest user access so as to determine whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed from the time point of the last access.

The mobile device according to Note 1 or 2 further comprising a timer unit which monitors whether the pre determined time period has elapsed after the access detection unit detects the last user access 

wherein the time period determination unit determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed when the timer unit detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein the time period determination unit determines whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed for each account and

wherein the protection unit performs the protection processing only on the account related information associated with the account for which the time period determination unit determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein as the protection processing the protection unit performs at least one of processing of deleting the account related information processing of converting the account related information in accordance with a pre determined rule and processing of saving the account related information to an external data storage device the external data storage device is connected to the mobile device through a network.

The mobile device according to any one of Notes 1 to 5 further comprising an access restriction unit which restricts access to the account related information by the user when an instruction is received from the protection unit 

wherein as processing of protecting the account related information the protection unit performs processing of instructing the access restriction unit to restrict access to the account related information.

wherein the storage location acquisition unit further acquires a storage location of account information the account information is used by each application and

wherein the protection unit performs the protection processing on the account information based on the storage location of the account information that the storage location acquisition unit acquires when the processing of protecting the account related information is performed.

A program for controlling a mobile device in which a plurality of applications are installed the program causing the mobile device to have 

a function of acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications 

a function of determining whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the function of detecting a user access detects a last user access and

a function of applying protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired by the function of acquiring a storage location of each piece of the account related information when the function of determining whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

The program according to Note 8 further causing the mobile device to have a function of storing a time point of each user access which is detected by the function of detecting a user access 

wherein when the function of detecting a user access detects a latest user access the function of determining whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed reads out a time point of a user access immediately previous to the latest user access as a time point of the last access among time points of the user access stored by the function of storing a time point of the user access and compares the time point of the last access with a time point of the latest user access so as to determine whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the last user access is detected.

the mobile device to have a function of monitoring whether the pre determined time period has elapsed after the last user access is detected 

wherein the function of determining whether the pre determined time period has elapsed determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed when the function of monitoring the elapse of the pre determined time period detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein the function of determining whether the pre determined time period has elapsed determines whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed for each account and

wherein the function of applying protection processing on the account related information performs protection processing only on the account related information associated with the account for which the function of determining whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein as the protection processing the function of applying protection processing on the account related information performs at least one of processing of deleting the account related information processing of converting the account related information in accordance with a pre determined rule and processing of saving the account related information to an external data storage device the external data storage device is connected to the mobile device through a network.

wherein as the processing of protecting the account related information the function of applying protection processing on account related information includes a function of restricting access to the account related information.

wherein the function of the mobile device acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information further includes a function of acquiring a storage location of account information the account information is used by each application and

wherein the function of applying protection processing on the account related information performs protection processing on the account information based on a storage location of the account information which is acquired by the function of acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information when processing of protecting the account related information is performed.

A control method of controlling a mobile device in which a plurality of applications are installed the method comprising 

a step of causing the mobile device to acquire a storage location of each piece of account related information the account related information is used by each of the applications 

a step of causing the mobile device to determine whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the step of detecting a user access detects a last user access and

a step of causing the mobile device to apply protection processing on each piece of the account related information based on each storage location acquired in the step of acquiring a storage location of the account related information when the step of determining whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

The control method according to Note 15 further comprising a step of causing the mobile device to store a time point of each user access which is detected in the step of detecting a user access 

wherein when the function of detecting a user access detects a latest user access the step of determining whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed reads out a time point of a user access immediately previous to the latest user access as a time point of the last access among time points of the user access which are stored by the function of storing a time point of the user access and compares the time point of the last access with a time point of the latest user access so as to determine whether or not a pre determined time period has elapsed after the last user access is detected.

The control method according to Note 15 further comprising a step of causing the mobile device to monitor whether the pre determined time period has elapsed after the last user access is detected 

wherein the step of determining the elapse of the pre determined time period determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed when the step of monitoring whether the pre determined time period has elapsed detects that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein the step of determining the elapse of the pre determined time period determines whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed for each account and

wherein the step of applying protection processing on the account related information performs protection processing only on the account related information associated with the account for which the step of determining whether or not the pre determined time period has elapsed determines that the pre determined time period has elapsed.

wherein as the protection processing the step of applying protection processing on the account related information performs at least one of processing of deleting the account related information processing of converting the account related information in accordance with a pre determined rule and processing of saving the account related information to an external data storage device the external data storage device is connected to the mobile device through a network.

wherein as the processing of protecting the account related information the step of applying protection processing on the account related information includes a function of restricting access to the account related information.

wherein the step of causing the mobile device to acquire a storage location of each piece of account related information further includes a step of acquiring a storage location of account information the account information is used by each application and

wherein the step of applying protection processing on the account related information performs the protection processing also on the account information based on a storage location of the account information which is acquired in the step of acquiring a storage location of each piece of account related information when the processing of protecting the account related information is performed.

This application claims priority based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 136847 filed on Jun. 18 2012 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by disclosure.

