---

title: Method and system for utilizing authorization factor pools
abstract: One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for sharing cardholder data (CHD) between a merchant that utilizes tokenization and a second merchant that may or may not utilize tokenization. In one embodiment, the merchant, or an employee of the merchant, can use the system and associated processes to reacquire CHD from a tokenization provider system. In one embodiment, the merchant identifies to the tokenization provider system a desire to share CHD, which is associated with a token, with a second merchant. The merchant and/or the tokenization provider system can then invite the second merchant to register with the tokenization provider system. Once registered with the tokenization provider system, the second merchant can access any CHD that the merchant associated with the second merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688589&OS=08688589&RS=08688589
owner: Shift4 Corporation
number: 08688589
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130312
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 303 983 filed on Nov. 23 2011 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENABLING MERCHANTS TO SHARE TOKENS which is a nonprovisional of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 476 194 filed on Apr. 15 2011 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SHARING TOKENS each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Further this application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 621 222 filed on Apr. 6 2012 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENABLING MERCHANTS TO SHARE TOKENS and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 714 959 filed on Oct. 17 2012 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENABLING MERCHANTS TO SHARE TOKENS each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. In addition this application was filed on Mar. 12 2013 the same day as U.S. application Ser. No. 13 796 969 titled MERCHANT BASED TOKEN SHARING which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Tokenization is a process used in credit debit and gift card processing systems to avoid storing cardholder data CHD such as credit and debit card numbers pin numbers expiration dates card security codes and the like at a merchant s location. For example when a merchant initially accepts a credit card at a point of sale POS system the CHD is encrypted and sent to a remote gateway system. The gateway system requests authorization from a credit card processor which obtains authorization from a bank that issued the card. The gateway system receives the authorization from the credit card processor and provides a token to the merchant for storage along with the authorization.

The token can be a globally unique randomized alphanumeric replacement for the CHD. The merchant s POS system stores the token instead of storing the CHD. If the merchant needs to reauthorize a customer for example to add a tip at a restaurant the merchant sends the token to the gateway system which then sends the actual CHD to the processor. With tokenization thieves cannot steal CHD from merchants because the tokens are stored in place of the actual CHD.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a system for sharing cardholder data CHD . In some embodiments the system includes a tokenization system. The tokenization system may be configured to receive CHD of a cardholder or customer from a first merchant. The tokenization system can associate a token with the CHD in physical computer storage to thereby enable the token to be used to represent the CHD or in some cases in place of the CHD. Further the tokenization system may be configured to electronically transmit the token to the first merchant so as to enable the first merchant to perform a first transaction for the cardholder without having to store the CHD. In some implementations the system may include a token access granting system that includes computer hardware. The token access granting system may be configured to receive an indication from the first merchant that one or more of the token and the CHD are to be shared with a second merchant. In response to receiving the indication the token access granting system may be configured to authorize the second merchant to access one or more of the token and the CHD thereby enabling the second merchant to perform a second transaction for the cardholder.

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a method for sharing a token associated with cardholder data CHD in a tokenization provider system to enable the sharing of cardholder data between users. In certain embodiments the method may be performed by a token access system implemented in a computing system that includes one or more processors. The method may include generating a first set of words and associating the first set of words with a token. The token may be associated with CHD in a tokenization provider system. The method may further include associating in computer memory of the token access system the first set of words with a user. In addition the method may include providing access to the first set of words to the user. The method may also include receiving user authentication information associated with the user and receiving a second set of words from the user. In some implementations the method includes determining whether the user is authorized to use the token by at least authenticating the user based at least in part on the user authentication information and determining whether the second set of words matches the first set of words. In response to determining that the user is authorized to use the token the method may include providing the user with electronic access to the token.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a system for sharing cardholder data CHD . This system may include a token acquisition system configured to provide CHD of a cardholder to a tokenization provider system. Further the token acquisition system may be configured to receive electronically a token associated with the CHD so as to enable a first merchant associated with the token acquisition system to perform a first transaction for the cardholder without having to store the CHD. In some implementations the system includes a token sharing system configured to provide to the tokenization provider system an indication that one or more of the token and the CHD are to be shared with a second merchant thereby enabling the second merchant to perform a second transaction for the cardholder.

The security advantages of tokenization sometimes come at the expense of flexibility. Because a merchant that uses tokenization stores a token instead of cardholder data CHD the merchant cannot share the CHD with a second merchant. This inability to share CHD can affect the merchant s ability to fully service his or her customers. For example many quality hotels will make restaurant reservations order flowers reserve theatre tickets and provide a number of additional services for guests that help differentiate these quality hotels from lesser quality hotels. However without access to CHD it becomes more difficult if not impossible to provide guests with these aforementioned services.

Further the lack of access to CHD by merchants that use third party services which take advantage of tokenization can affect the ability of some merchants to charge for cancelled reservations. For example a golf course may work with a vacation reservation company to sell tee times to vacationers. If a vacationer fails to show up without properly cancelling his or her reservation the golf course may wish to charge the vacationer a cancellation fee. However if the vacation reservation company utilizes a tokenization service the vacation reservation company will be unable to provide the golf course with the CHD.

Moreover there are instances where a merchant may desire to reacquire CHD. For example the merchant may want to process a transaction that includes interacting with a payment or credit card processor that is not supported by the tokenization gateway which handles transactions on behalf of merchants that opt to use tokenization.

One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and associated processes for sharing CHD between a merchant that uses tokenization and a second merchant that may or may not use tokenization. In one embodiment the merchant or an employee of the merchant can use the system and associated processes to reacquire CHD from a tokenization provider system. In one embodiment the merchant identifies to the tokenization provider system a desire to share CHD which is associated with a token with a second merchant. If the second merchant is not registered with the tokenization provider system the merchant and or the tokenization provider system can invite the second merchant to register with the tokenization provider system. Once registered with the tokenization provider system the second merchant can access any CHD that the initial merchant associates with the second merchant.

In one embodiment the second merchant identifies the token associated with the CHD to the tokenization provider system. If the merchant has given the second merchant access to the token then the tokenization provider system can provide the second merchant with the CHD. In one embodiment providing the CHD to the second merchant comprises the tokenization provider system performing a transaction using the CHD for the second merchant. Advantageously in some embodiments the tokenization provider performing the transaction for the second merchant maintains the security advantages gained from tokenization because the second merchant can use the CHD without the second merchant viewing the CHD and without a copy of the CHD being sent to the second merchant s location. In one embodiment once the second merchant acquires the CHD the second merchant can use the tokenization provider system or the second merchant s tokenization provider system to obtain a new token associated with the CHD and the second merchant. The second merchant can then take advantage of tokenization and avoid storing the CHD at the second merchant s location.

In one embodiment providing the second merchant with access to the token and or the CHD associated with the token comprises providing the second merchant with an authorization factor. This authorization factor is associated with one or more of the token the CHD and the second merchant. In one embodiment to access the token and or CHD the tokenization provider system can request that the second merchant present the authorization factor as part of the user authentication process. Advantageously in some embodiments use of the authorization factor prevents automated systems from accessing the token and or CHD. Further in some embodiments use of the authorization factor increases the security of the CHD because in certain embodiments the CHD is protected by two levels of obscurity. A user attempting to access the CHD may be required to authenticate with the tokenization provider system and provide the authorization factor. Further the authorization factor can be associated with the CHD and the user thereby preventing a user who is authorized to access the tokenization provider system but not the CHD from accessing the CHD.

Many variations of these example systems and associated processes are described below in more detail with reference to the drawings. Further in some cases one or more of the various embodiments and systems can be combined into fewer embodiments or systems or split into multiple embodiments or systems.

The tokenization provider system is associated with a tokenization provider not shown and can generally include any system capable of creating a token associated with CHD storing the token and the CHD and providing the token to a user e.g. a merchant of the tokenization provider system . Further the tokenization provider system can generally include any system capable of performing a payment card transaction on behalf of the merchant without the merchant having or maintaining a copy of the CHD. This CHD can include any information associated with a customer of the merchant environment and the customer s payment card that is necessary to process a payment transaction but which the merchant does not wish to store at the merchant environment due to for example security related expenses or concerns. Further the payment card can be any type of card that can facilitate completing the payment transaction. For example the payment card can be a credit card debit card or gift card. One example of such a tokenization provider system is the Dollars On The Net solution from Shift4 Corporation of Las Vegas Nev.

The merchant environment can generally include any product or service provider that accepts credit cards or other types of payment cards for payment and utilizes the tokenization provider system for payment processing. For example the merchant environment can be a hotel an electronics store a restaurant an online ecommerce website or a healthcare provider to name a few. Further the merchant environment may be associated with an organization or merchant organization that is affiliated with or owns one or more merchant environments. For example assuming the merchant environment represents a hotel the organization may be associated with a number of hotel locations and or hotel chains.

Generally the merchant organization is a different organization than the tokenization provider. However in some embodiments the merchant organization may be the same organization as the tokenization provider that is associated with the tokenization provider system . For example the tokenization provider system may represent at least in part the corporate headquarters for the merchant organization or it may represent a central processing facility for processing payment transactions for one or more locations of the merchant environment . Further the merchant environment may represent a store location owned by the merchant organization or the merchant environment may represent a franchisee.

In one embodiment the merchant environment includes a merchant and an administrator . The merchant can represent any individual e.g. an employee affiliated with the merchant environment who may or may not have administrative access to an account associated with the tokenization provider system . The admin can represent any individual affiliated with the merchant environment who has administrative access to an account associated with the tokenization provider system . For example the admin can be a manager or an owner of the merchant environment .

The third party merchant environment can generally include any product or service provider that accepts credit cards or other types of payment cards for payment and may or may not utilize the tokenization provider system for payment processing. For example the third party merchant environment can be a flower shop a hotel a theatre another ecommerce website or a franchisee of the merchant environment . In one embodiment the third party merchant environment may utilize a tokenization provider system that is not affiliated with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment the third party merchant environment includes a third party merchant . The third party merchant can represent any individual associated with the third party merchant environment .

In one embodiment the merchant can obtain CHD from a cardholder or customer not shown during a first or initial transaction. When the merchant provides the CHD to the POS the POS can provide the CHD to a token access system which is associated with the tokenization provider system . In turn the token access system can provide the POS with a token associated with the CHD. This token can be generated by the token access system or a token generation system not shown that is associated with the tokenization provider system . The POS can then delete any CHD and can store the token at the token repository which is part of the merchant repository system . Further the POS can associate the token with a cardholder or customer profile associated with the cardholder or customer and stored at the customer profile repository which is part of the merchant repository system . The token access system can store the CHD and the token as well as the relationship between the token and the CHD at the token CHD relationship repository which is part of the tokenization provider repository system .

The POS can generally represent any point of sale system that can process payment card transactions by communicating with the credit card processors or by communicating with the tokenization provider system which communicates with the credit card processors for the POS . The tokenization provider system may communicate with the credit card processors using for example the gateway . In one embodiment the POS communicates directly with the tokenization provider system via a private secure connection. Alternatively the POS can communicate with the tokenization provider system via the network . The network can include any type of wired or wireless network. For example the network can be a LAN WAN or the Internet to name a few. The credit card processors and the credit card processor can generally include any payment card processing system or service.

The token access system can generally include any system that can generate tokens associated with CHD and provide the tokens to a merchant environment . Further the token access system can include any system that can regulate access to the tokens and CHD associated with the tokens.

The merchant repository system can generally include any repository database or information storage system that can store information associated with the merchant environment . In one embodiment the merchant repository system comprises the token repository and the customer profile repository . The token repository can generally include any system capable of storing tokens associated with CHD. In one embodiment the token repository stores token identifiers associated with tokens stored at the tokenization provider system . In some cases the token repository stores hashed and or encrypted versions of the token instead of or in addition to the token. The customer profile repository can generally include any information associated with customers of the merchant environment that the merchant environment may store. For example the customer profile repository may include the cardholder s or customer s identity the customer s preferences e.g. red flowers or a corner hotel room and the customer s purchase history to name a few. In one embodiment one or more of the token repository and the customer profile repository may store information linking an entry in the customer profile repository with an entry in the token repository thereby associating a token with a customer. In one embodiment the token repository and the customer profile repository can be combined or divided further.

The tokenization provider repository system can generally include any repository database or information storage system that can store information associated with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment the tokenization provider repository system comprises a token CHD relationship repository a token access repository and a CHD access log repository . The token CHD relationship repository can generally include any system that can store CHD and tokens as well as the relationship between the tokens and the CHD. The tokens and CHD may each be stored in a hashed and or encrypted form. The token access repository can generally include any system that can store information associated with identifying who can access the tokens and CHD maintained by the tokenization provider system . This information can include user identification information user authentication information and user token relationship information to name a few. The CHD access log repository can generally include any system that can store information associated with token and CHD access by users of the tokenization provider system . These users can include both users who use the tokenization provider system for tokenization services e.g. the merchant and users who access the tokenization provider system to access shared tokens or CHD e.g. the third party merchant . In one embodiment the token CHD relationship repository the token access repository and the CHD access log repository can be combined or divided further.

In one embodiment the merchant can provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD. Providing the third party merchant with access to the CHD comprises the merchant providing the third party merchant with access to the token associated with the CHD. To provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD the merchant can send the token or token identifier and a merchant identifier associated with the third party merchant to the token access system . Further the token access system provides the token or a token identifier to the third party merchant enabling the third party merchant to access the CHD associated with the token at the tokenization provider system .

In one embodiment the merchant provides the token or the token identifier to the third party merchant using for example the computing system thereby enabling the third party merchant to access CHD associated with the token at the tokenization provider system .

In one embodiment access to the CHD is generally on a limited basis. For example using the token the third party merchant may only be able to access the CHD once a small number of times or for a predefined period such as 15 minutes . However access to the CHD is not so limited in other embodiments.

In one embodiment the merchant can remove access to the CHD from the third party merchant by requesting that the token access system disassociate the token from the third party merchant .

In some embodiments the merchant provides token access to one or more users that have been pre identified to the tokenization provider system by the admin using for example the computing system . Similarly in some embodiments the admin can remove access to the CHD from the one or more pre identified users. In one embodiment the pre identified users can be third parties e.g. the third party merchant and or users associated with the merchant environment e.g. the merchant .

In some embodiments although the third party merchant may or may not be a customer of the tokenization provider to access the CHD the third party merchant registers with the token access system . Registration with the token access system enables the token access system to associate the token with the third party merchant . Further the registration enables the tokenization provider to optionally verify the identity of the third party merchant and to determine if the third party merchant is trustworthy based on publicly available information or any other information source available to the tokenization provider.

In one embodiment the third party merchant accesses the token access system via a computing system or a POS . The third party merchant authenticates with the token access system and can then request the CHD associated with a token by providing a copy of the token or a token identifier associated with the token to a CHD access system . If the third party merchant has been pre authorized by the admin to access the CHD the CHD access system can provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD. Once the third party merchant has gained access to the CHD the third party merchant can process a transaction for the customer via the POS using the CHD. Alternatively if the third party merchant is a customer of the tokenization provider the third party merchant can use the gateway to process the transaction. In one embodiment gaining access to the CHD enables the third party merchant to view the CHD. Alternatively in some embodiments gaining access to the CHD enables the third party merchant to perform a transaction with or without viewing the CHD.

In one embodiment the CHD access system causes the CHD to be displayed to the user via one or more of the POS and the computing system .

The CHD access system can generally include any system that can provide access to CHD associated with a token. In one embodiment the CHD access system authenticates a user and determines whether the user is authorized to access the CHD before providing access to CHD associated with a token.

The token access system or the CHD access system can log each access of the CHD or token at the CHD access log repository which is part of the tokenization provider repository system . Advantageously in some embodiments by logging each access of the CHD or token it can be determined if a potential unauthorized use of the CHD is attributable to the merchant the third party merchant or some unrelated party.

The POS can generally represent any point of sale system that can process payment card transactions by communicating with the credit card processor . In one embodiment the POS communicates directly with the credit card processor . Alternatively the POS communicates with the credit card processor via the network . The POS may also communicate with the credit card processor or the credit card processors using the tokenization provider system . Generally this communication may occur if the third party merchant environment is also a customer of the tokenization provider system . However in some instances the POS may use the tokenization provider system to communicate with the credit card processors without the third party merchant environment being a customer of the tokenization provider system . For example in some cases the third party merchant may be authorized to use the tokenization provider system when initiating transactions that use CHD associated with a token provided by a party that is a customer of the tokenization provider system such as the merchant environment . In one embodiment the POS and the POS can be similarly configured.

The gateway can generally include any system that can process transactions by providing CHD and transaction information to the credit card processors either directly or via the network on behalf of the merchant environment .

The computing systems and can generally include any computing device s such as desktops laptops and wireless mobile devices e.g. smart phones PDAs tablets or the like to name a few. In one embodiment one or more of the merchant environment and the third party merchant environment is associated with an ecommerce website. In one embodiment the computing systems and can also include video game platforms television set top boxes televisions e.g. internet TVs and computerized appliances to name a few. In one embodiment the computing systems and can include any computing device that can interact with the tokenization provider system .

In one embodiment providing access to a token and the CHD associated with the token comprises associating an authorization factor with the token. For example to provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD the merchant can send the token and a merchant identifier associated with the third party merchant to the token access system . The token access system can use the authorization factor generator to generate an authorization factor. The authorization factor can be associated with the token and the merchant identifier at the token access repository . The token access system can provide the authorization factor along with the token or token identifier to the third party merchant enabling the third party merchant to access the CHD associated with the token at the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment the merchant provides the authorization factor to the third party merchant .

The authorization factor generator can generally include any system capable of generating or otherwise accessing an authorization factor. The authorization factor can include any factor that can be used to help authenticate the third party merchant and to prevent automated systems possibly associated with malicious users from attempting to obtain CHD access. For example the authorization factor can comprise a set of one or more random or pseudo random words numbers symbols images sounds or a combination of the same. In some embodiments the authorization factor can be non random and may be associated with a defined algorithm. Further in some embodiments the authorization factor can be associated with a theme. For example the authorization factor can be a set of four random color words car images or rock music sound bites. In some embodiments the authorization factor can be a security question. In some cases the authorization factor can be in one or more languages. Further in some cases the words may be sets of random characters that may or may not spell a word as understood by for example the merchant .

In one embodiment to access CHD associated with a token the third party merchant authenticates with the tokenization provider system . The third party merchant also provides both a token or token identifier and an authorization factor. If the authorization factor matches an authorization factor associated with the token and the token is associated with the third party merchant then the CHD access system can provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD associated with the token. Thus in some embodiments the third party merchant must be registered with the tokenization provider system and have been granted access to the CHD by the merchant .

In one embodiment the admin identifies the merchants or users to the tokenization provider system that the merchant can potentially provide token access. In one embodiment the admin identifies to the tokenization provider system the employees of the merchant environment that can share token access with other merchants or users.

In one embodiment the authorization factor is presented to the third party merchant via a human detection test such as a captcha reverse Turing test or other challenge response test. In one embodiment the authorization factor is presented to the third party merchant via a RSA hardware authenticator. In one embodiment after providing the authorization factor a phone verification system not shown associated with the tokenization provider system can contact the third party merchant to request verification that the third party merchant is attempting to access the CHD associated with a token. In some embodiments use of the phone verification system can advantageously prevent attempts at automated CHD access by malicious programs.

In one embodiment one or more of the token access system the CHD access system and the authorization factor generator can be located at the merchant environment .

As one example non limiting use case of an embodiment of the present disclosure assume that the merchant environment represents an electronics store and the third party merchant environment represents an extended warranty provider. The extended warranty provider is contracted with the merchant environment to provide extended warranties to customers of the merchant environment who opt to purchase an extended warranty with their electronic purchase. A customer who is attempting to purchase a television may provide CHD to the merchant environment . The merchant environment may then provide the CHD to the tokenization provider system . The tokenization provider system processes the transaction and returns a token associated with the CHD to the merchant environment which stores the token and associates the token with the customer. Now assume the customer decides to purchase the extended warranty for the television. The merchant environment can authorize the third party merchant environment to use the token. The third party merchant environment can then access the tokenization provider system and request the CHD associated with the token thereby enabling the third party merchant to process the extended warranty transaction for the customer. Alternatively the third party merchant environment can request that the tokenization provider system process the extended warranty transaction using the CHD associated with the token.

The process begins at block where for example the token access system receives CHD from the merchant . At block the token access system generates a token. This token can be any piece of random or pseudo random globally unique data that can be stored by the merchant in place of the CHD. In one embodiment the token can include alphanumeric characters symbols pictures sounds video etc. For example the token may include a set of four words that may be English words words in any other language or words from multiple languages. A user can provide the token to a system such as the token access system using a user interface configured according to the type of token. For example if the token includes a set of words the user interface may include a set of text fields. As a second example if the token includes sounds the interface may receive input from a musical keyboard or may map different keys on a computer keyboard to different sounds. Advantageously in some embodiments the keys that map to the sounds may differ each time the user attempts to provide the token using the user interface thereby reducing the possibility that a user can learn a set of letters in place of the sound based token.

In some cases the token can be based on a theme. Advantageously in some embodiments using easily remembered tokens such as English words associated with a theme e.g. animals colors etc. facilitates a user remembering the token. As described in more detail below such as with respect to the process of accessing the CHD using the token may require authentication of a user as well as determining the user s authorization to use the token. Thus in some embodiments using a token that is designed to be relatively easy to remember does not reduce the security benefits of tokenization. In some cases the token may include multiple types of data e.g. the token could be any combination of words images sounds or video. For example the token may include a word a set of random characters and five musical notes. Generally there exists no correlation between the token value or contents and the contents of the CHD thereby making it impossible to determine the CHD from the token itself. However in some embodiments one or more pieces of the CHD can be used to facilitate generating the token. In one embodiment the token differs from an encrypted version of the CHD and thus cannot be manipulated to obtain the CHD. In one embodiment the token can be an encrypted form of the CHD or a combination of encrypted CHD and false non CHD.

In some cases the token may be formatted in a card swipe compatible format. Further in some cases the token may be formatted to be processed by one or more systems e.g. Point of Sale systems as if the token were CHD. Moreover the token may be configured to replace CHD or a Primary Account Number PAN included with the CHD with a surrogate value. Typically this surrogate value is unique and is generated to not include a valid PAN or CHD.

In some embodiments a single token exists at any given time per CHD. However at different points in time a different token may be associated with a particular CHD. In some embodiments the token is at least in part algorithmically generated.

At block the token access system associates the token with the CHD. In some embodiments the relationship between the token and the CHD is stored at the token CHD relationship repository . In some embodiments the token access system may also associate the token with the merchant . This relationship may also optionally be stored at the token CHD relationship repository . In some cases there may exist a number of tokens and sets of CHD data. For example there may be one a hundred a thousand ten thousand a million or more tokens and sets of CHD data. Thus the token access system for example may maintain relationships between a number of tokens and sets of CHD data including one a hundred a thousand ten thousand etc. Generally one token is associated with one set of CHD data. However in some embodiments a token may be associated with multiple sets of CHD data and or a set of CHD data may be associated with multiple tokens. For example multiple merchants may have obtained a set of CHD from a customer and as a result if more than one of the merchants uses tokenization it is possible for multiple tokens to be associated with one set of CHD.

At block the token access system provides the token to the merchant . In one embodiment providing the token to the merchant enables the merchant to perform transactions without the CHD. The merchant can identify the token and provide transaction details for example to the gateway or the token access system . The gateway can then process the transaction on behalf of the merchant . In some embodiments the merchant can store the token at the token repository . Advantageously in some embodiments once the CHD has initially been provided to the token access system the merchant can perform a transaction using the CHD without directly accessing viewing or maintaining a copy of the CHD at the merchant environment .

At block the token access system receives a request to associate the token with a second merchant such as the third party merchant . In some embodiments the request comprises receiving one or more of an identifier contact information and account information associated with the third party merchant . Generally this information does not include information that the third party merchant uses to access the tokenization provider system . For example the identifier or account information may include a public identifier that the third party merchant can share with merchants who wish to grant the third party merchant with token access but generally the public identifier is distinct from an identifier the third party merchant uses to identify itself to the tokenization provider system . However in some embodiments the public identifier and the login identifier may be the same. Further in some embodiments the request comprises receiving the identity of the token. Alternatively the request comprises receiving a copy of the token.

The token access system authorizes the second merchant e.g. the third party merchant to access the token at block . In some embodiments authorizing access to the token comprises authorizing access to the CHD. In some embodiments block can also comprise informing the second merchant that the second merchant or an account associated with the second merchant is authorized to access the token and or CHD. In some embodiments informing the second merchant of the authorization can comprise emailing texting leaving a voice message or providing an alert via the POS the computing system or an account page associated with the third party merchant at the tokenization provider system . In some embodiments authorizing the second merchant to access the token comprises providing a copy of the token and or an identifier associated with the token to the second merchant. In some embodiments the token access system stores the relationship between the second merchant and the token and or CHD at the token access repository .

The process begins at block where for example the CHD access system receives user authentication information associated with for example the third party merchant . This user authentication information can generally include any information that can be used to authenticate the third party merchant . For example the user authentication information can include a user name a password a RSA token code e.g. a code produced by an RSA SecurlD hardware authenticator and the response to a challenge response test such as a human detection test response e.g. a captcha response or an answer to a security question.

At decision block the CHD access system determines based at least in part on the user authentication information if the third party merchant is authorized to access the tokenization provider system or any system associated with the tokenization provider system . If the third party merchant is not authorized to use the tokenization provider system the CHD access system rejects the third party merchant at block . In one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant can comprise initiating a registration process that enables the third party merchant to register with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant can comprise providing an error message to the third party merchant .

If the third party merchant is authorized to access the tokenization provider system the CHD access system receives a token from the third party merchant at block . Alternatively at block the CHD access system accesses the token pre associated with the third party merchant by the merchant from the token access repository . In one embodiment receiving the token comprises receiving a token identifier associated with the token. In one embodiment receiving the token includes receiving a request to access CHD associated with the token.

At decision block the CHD access system determines if the third party merchant is authorized to use the token. In one embodiment to determine if the third party merchant is authorized to use the token the CHD access system determines if the third party merchant is associated with the token at the token access repository .

If the third party merchant is not authorized to use the token the CHD access system rejects the third party merchant s request to access the CHD associated with the token at block . In one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant s request can include logging the third party merchant s request at the CHD access log repository . Further in one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant s request can include informing the merchant of the third party merchant s attempt to use the token and or access the CHD associated with the token. In one embodiment in response to the third party merchant s failed attempt to access the CHD the tokenization provider system can replace the token at the tokenization provider system and the merchant environment with a new token.

If the third party merchant is authorized to use the token the CHD access system provides access to CHD associated with the token at block . In one embodiment providing access to the CHD comprises providing the CHD to one or more of the POS and the computing system . In one embodiment if given access to the CHD the third party merchant can view the CHD. Alternatively the third party merchant can initiate a transaction using the CHD at the POS but without viewing the CHD. In one embodiment providing access to the CHD comprises the gateway performing a transaction using the CHD on behalf of the third party merchant . In one embodiment providing the third party merchant with access to the CHD can include logging the third party merchant s access of the CHD at the CHD access log repository .

At block the CHD access system removes the third party merchant s authorization to use the token and consequently the third party merchant s authorization to access the CHD at the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment removing the third party merchant s authorization to use the token can comprise disassociating the token and the third party merchant at the token access repository . In one embodiment the threshold for removing the third party merchant s authorization to use the token can be based on any predetermined event. For example authorization can be removed after the third party merchant uses the token or accesses the CHD a pre determined number of times such as once or five times. As a second example authorization can be removed after a pre defined time period such as 15 minutes from the time merchant authorizes the third party merchant to use the token or 10 minutes from the time that the third party merchant access the CHD using the token. In one embodiment block is optional.

The process begins at block where for example the token access system receives user authentication information associated with the merchant . This user authentication information can comprise any information necessary for the token access system to authenticate the merchant . For example the user authentication information can comprise a user name a password and a RSA token code to name a few.

At decision block the token access system determines if the merchant is authorized to grant a second merchant access to a token. In one embodiment granting the second merchant access to the token can include granting the second merchant the ability to use the token to process a transaction. In one embodiment decision block comprises determining if the merchant is authorized to access one or more of the tokenization provider system the token access system and the gateway . In one embodiment the merchant may have access to the tokenization provider system without having permission to access all of the systems associated with the tokenization provider system . For example the merchant may have access to the gateway enabling the merchant to process transactions for a customer but may not have access to the token access system thereby preventing the merchant from providing token access to a second merchant. In one embodiment the admin determines the merchant s level of access to the tokenization provider system . The admin can configure an account associated with the merchant and the tokenization provider system to restrict the merchant s level of access to one or more of systems tokens and CHD associated with the tokenization provider system .

If the merchant is not authorized to grant a second merchant access to a token the token access system rejects the merchant from further accessing the token access system at block . If the merchant is authorized to grant token access to a second merchant the token access system receives the identity of a token from the merchant at block . Receiving the identity of the token can comprise receiving a token or receiving a token identifier associated with the token. Further receiving the identity of the token may include receiving a customer record that is associated with a token. Advantageously in some embodiments by providing a customer record or portion thereof such as a customer record identifier that is associated with a token to the token access system the merchant can grant token access without knowing the token value knowing that a token exists or having any understanding of how tokenization works.

In one embodiment the token access system verifies that the merchant provided a token associated with the merchant or the merchant environment . If the token is not associated with the merchant or the merchant environment the token access system can reject the token. In one embodiment the token access system can also lock the merchant out of the tokenization provider system log the merchant s actions at the CHD access log repository report the access attempt to the admin or combinations of the same.

At block the token access system receives the identity of the third party merchant the user whom the merchant wishes to grant token access. In some embodiments the token access system receives the identity of the third party merchant environment or an organization associated with the third party merchant environment . In one embodiment receiving the identity of the third party merchant comprises receiving the identity of a merchant account associated with the tokenization provider system and the third party merchant . As previously described the identity can include any information that identifies the third party merchant or third party merchant environment to the tokenization provider system . This can include for example a unique identifier selected by the tokenization provider system or the third party merchant . As additional examples the identifying information may include an e mail address a phone number or any other contact information. Advantageously in some embodiments providing contact information as an identifier enables the merchant to identify a third party merchant that has not yet registered with the tokenization provider system or without knowing the third party merchant s unique identifier.

The token access system may also receive a time based or event based set of conditions associated with the third party merchant that limits the third party merchant s access to the CHD. For example the conditions may limit the time period in which the third party merchant can access the CHD or the number of times the third party merchant can access the CHD using the token. Further in embodiments where the tokenization provider system provides CHD access by performing transactions on behalf of the third party merchant the conditions can include a monetary limit. Advantageously in some embodiments setting a monetary limit can prevent a third party merchant from quoting one price to a customer or merchant while charging a higher price once access to the CHD is obtained. The admin may also pre define the set of conditions such that each time the merchant provides a third party merchant with CHD access the set of conditions are automatically associated with the CHD access.

At decision block the token access system determines if the third party merchant is authorized to access tokens. This determination can comprise determining if the third party merchant is registered with the tokenization provider system and or if the third party merchant is authorized to access tokens associated with the merchant environment . If the third party merchant is not authorized to access tokens the token access system rejects the merchant selection of the third party merchant at block . In some embodiments rejecting the merchant selection can comprise sending a registration request to or initiating a registration process with the third party merchant . In some embodiments rejecting the merchant selection can comprise requesting that the admin authorize the third party merchant to access tokens associated with the merchant environment if so desired.

If the third party merchant is authorized to access tokens the token access system generates a set of random words at block using for example the authorization factor generator . Alternatively the token access system can generate any other type of authentication factor using for example the authorization factor generator as described above with respect to . At block the set of random words are associated with the token identified at block . At block the set of random words are associated with the third party merchant . In one embodiment the set of random words are associated with a merchant account associated with the third party merchant environment . An employee associated with the third party merchant environment that has access to the merchant account can then use the set of random words and obtain access to the token and associated CHD as described with respect to .

At block the set of random words are provided to the third party merchant . In one embodiment the set of random words can be provided by any type of communication. For example the token access system can provide the set or random words by email text or voicemail to name a few. In one embodiment the set of random words are provided to the merchant . The merchant can then provide the set of random words to the third party merchant . In one embodiment performing block can further comprise performing block as described with respect to .

In one embodiment the set of random words are provided in an encrypted format to the third party merchant . The third party merchant can then decrypt the encrypted set of random words. In one embodiment the set of random words can be provided in clear text. However in some embodiments because the set of random words are associated with the third party merchant or the merchant account at the tokenization provider system malicious users are prevented from using the set of random words to access the token and or CHD associated with the token.

The process begins at block where for example the CHD access system receives user authentication information associated with the third party merchant . This user authentication information can generally include any information that can be used to authenticate the third party merchant . For example the user authentication information can include a user name a password a RSA token code and the response to a challenge response test such as a captcha response or an answer to a security question.

At decision block the CHD access system determines based at least in part on the user authentication information if the third party merchant is authorized to access the tokenization provider system or any system associated with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment decision block can include determining if the third party merchant is registered with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment decision block can include determining if the merchant or the admin has provided the third party merchant with access to tokens associated with the merchant or the merchant environment .

If the third party merchant is not authorized to use the tokenization provider system the CHD access system rejects the third party merchant at block . In one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant can comprise initiating a registration process that enables the third party merchant to register with the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment rejecting the third party merchant can comprise providing an error message to the third party merchant .

If the third party merchant is authorized to access the tokenization provider system the CHD access system receives a set of words from the third party merchant at block . Alternatively or additionally the CHD access system receives any authorization factor generated by the authorization factor generator and provided to the third party merchant as part of the implementation of the process .

At decision block the CHD access system determines if the set of words received from the third party merchant match a set of random words associated with a token. In one embodiment the third party merchant also identifies the token. Alternatively the CHD access system identifies the token by determining if there exists any token associated with a set of random words that match the received set of words and if so the CHD access system determines if the third party merchant is authorized to access that token.

If the set of words received from the third party merchant do not match a set of random words associated with a token the CHD access system rejects the third party merchant at block . Rejecting the third party merchant can comprise causing an error message to be presented to the third party merchant . Further in some embodiments rejecting the third party merchant can cause an account associated with the third party merchant to be deactivated or suspended.

If the set of words received from the third party merchant matches a set of random words associated with a token the CHD access system at block accesses the token associated with the set of random words at for example the tokenization provider repository system . At block the CHD access system obtains CHD associated with the token.

At block the CHD access system provides the third party merchant with access to the CHD over a secure connection. In one embodiment the CHD is provided via the network . In one embodiment the CHD is provided to the computing system at block . The computing system can then provide the CHD directly to the POS and or cause the CHD to be presented to the third party merchant . In one embodiment the CHD is provided to the POS at block . The POS can then provide the CHD to the credit card processor to complete a transaction.

In one embodiment providing the third party merchant with access to the CHD can comprise the CHD access system receiving transaction information associated with a requested transaction. The CHD access system can then provide the CHD and the transaction information to the gateway which can then process the transaction using the credit card processors . Advantageously in some embodiments the third party merchant is able to use the CHD without the CHD being presented to the third party merchant . In one embodiment a subset of the CHD is presented to the third party merchant enabling the third party merchant to log the transaction and or to verify that the transaction is associated with the correct CHD or customer. In some embodiments the CHD access system may verify that the value of the transaction does not exceed a pre defined transaction limit associated with the third party merchant s access of the CHD. If the transaction limit is exceeded the CHD access system can reject the transaction. Further the CHD access system can report the attempted transaction to the merchant or the admin . The CHD access system can also report successful transactions to the merchant thereby enabling the merchant to verify that the third party merchant processed the transaction for the merchant s customer.

In one embodiment the CHD access system logs each access and or attempted access of the token and or CHD at the CHD access log repository . Advantageously in some embodiments if there is a disputed credit card use the CHD access log repository can be accessed to determine what parties may have accessed the token and or CHD around the time associated with the disputed credit card use.

At block the CHD access system disassociates the set of random words from the token and the third party merchant . In one embodiment disassociating the set of random words can include deleting or removing the words from the tokenization provider system . In one embodiment block is performed in response to the third party merchant accessing the token and or CHD. In one embodiment block is performed in response to a pre defined event. This pre defined event can include any event associated with the token and or CHD. For example the pre defined event can comprise the number of times the set of random words have been provided by the third party merchant to the tokenization provider system e.g. once or five times the length of time since the set of random words were associated with the token e.g. 15 minutes or the length of time since the third party merchant first accessed the token and or CHD to name a few.

Further in some embodiments the CHD access system may disassociate the set of random words from the token without the third party merchant having ever accessed or attempted to access the CHD. For example if the pre defined event is a time limit or time period the CHD access system can disassociate the set of random words from the token at the expiration of the time limit or time period whether or not the third party merchant accessed the CHD. In addition if the owner of the token e.g. the merchant ceases to trust the third party merchant the token owner can access the tokenization provider system and remove the third party merchant s authorization to access the token and thus the CHD associated with the token. Removing the authorization to access the token may include disassociating the set of random words from the token prior to the pre defined event occurring.

In one embodiment the third party merchant can communicate with the CHD access system using any secure system. For example the third party merchant can provide the user authentication information or the set of random words using a secure portal or webpage associated with the tokenization provider system . Alternatively the third party merchant can use a virtual private network VPN or a secure application obtained from the tokenization provider system to access the tokenization provider system and to provide the user authentication information or the set of random words to the CHD access system .

Advantageously in some embodiments a merchant can use the process or to reduce CHD misuse or the misappropriation of CHD by a malicious user because the CHD is not stored with the merchant. Further in some embodiments using the process or the merchant can provide CHD to a third party merchant who may not be a customer of the tokenization provider system or who may not be capable of interacting with the tokenization provider system due to for example differing CHD processing systems or legal regulations in the third party merchant s country or jurisdiction. Similarly in some embodiments the merchant can use the process or to require CHD to complete a transaction with a bank or credit card processor whose payment card processing systems may not be capable of interacting with the tokenization provider system.

The flow begins at event with the customer providing CHD to the merchant . This CHD is then provided by the merchant to the tokenization provider system at event . At event the tokenization provider system generates a token and associates the token with the CHD. This token is provided to the merchant at event . Generally but not necessarily the merchant can store the token in place of the CHD and can destroy or not save any copies of the CHD that the merchant received. In other embodiments the merchant generates the token or at least a portion of the token instead of or in addition to the tokenization provider system .

At event the customer provides a product or service request to the merchant for a product or service that may be provided by the third party merchant . For example the request may be for opera tickets flowers or for an appointment at a spa. At event the merchant authorizes the third party merchant to access the token at the tokenization provider system by communicating the authorization to the tokenization provider system . The tokenization provider system at event generates an authorization factor such as a set of four random words and associates the third party merchant with the authorization factor and the token.

At event the tokenization provider system provides the authorization factor to the merchant such as by email or through a web portal. The merchant provides the authorization factor and the customer s product or service request to the third party merchant at event . At event the third party merchant authenticates with the tokenization provider system . The third party merchant also provides the authorization factor to the tokenization provider system at event . In some embodiments authenticating and providing the authorization factor may be two separate events.

Assuming that the third party merchant is authenticated and that the tokenization provider system determines that the third party merchant is authorized to access the token the tokenization provider system provides access to the CHD associated with the token at event . In some embodiments providing access to the CHD may include providing the CHD to the third party merchant .

The flow of information illustrated in is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting. For example in some cases instead of or in addition to the tokenization provider system providing the authorization factor to the merchant at event the tokenization provider system can provide the authorization factor to the third party merchant .

A user such as the third party merchant can access the interface screens illustrated in using a POS a computing system or the like. In some embodiments some or all of the interface screens may be included as part of a web based or Internet based software application that is accessed via a network . Alternatively some or all of the interface screens may be part of a client side software application stored locally such as on the computing system which can communicate over the network with a server side application stored on for example the token access system .

The user login interface includes a registration link . This registration link can be used to direct an unregistered user to a registration screen such as the user registration interface depicted in . Further the user login interface can also include a login link that can be used to direct a user e.g. the merchant who is registered with the tokenization provider system to another login interface. This additional login interface can be user by subscribers of the tokenization provider system to manage token access such as to grant token access to third party merchant organizations and or users.

In some embodiments a merchant or an organization associated with the merchant environment that is a customer of the organization associated with the tokenization provider system can use the user registration interface to register an account with the token access system . Advantageously in certain embodiments this enables merchants to share access to CHD and or tokens with other merchants whether or not the other merchants are customers of the tokenization provider system .

In some embodiments the merchant selection interface enables the third party merchant to select any organization or user registered with the tokenization provider system . Alternatively the merchant selection interface may be configured to enable the third party merchant to select organizations or users that are currently sharing a token with the third party merchant . In some cases the third party merchant may be able to select any organization or user that has shared a token with the third party merchant at some point whether or not the organization is currently sharing a token with the third party merchant .

The merchant selection interface can include an existing connections panel . The existing connections panel can list some or all of the users or organizations with whom the third party merchant is currently connected. In some embodiments the existing connections panel may list organizations that are sharing a token with the third party merchant . Alternatively the existing connections panel may list any organization with which the third party merchant has established a connection. In some embodiments the third party merchant can select organizations with which to connect. For some embodiments organizations that are sharing tokens with the third party merchant or an associated organization are automatically connected to the third party merchant and may automatically be listed on the existing connections panel .

The existing connections panel can list connections in any order. For example the existing connection panel may list the organizations that are currently sharing a connection before displaying other connections. Alternatively for example organizations may be listed in alphabetical order by frequency of access or based on when the organization was added to the list.

In some implementations the merchant selection interface can include one or more search fields for locating organizations that may have shared a token with the third party merchant or an associated organization . These search fields can include for example a name field a city field an address field or a product or service field e.g. electronics hospitality restaurants etc. to name a few. In some cases the search fields may be used to search for an organization that is known to the tokenization provider system or that has registered with the tokenization provider system .

The results list can list the organizations identified based on the information supplied to the search fields . Although illustrated as a drop down list the results list is not limited as such and may include any type of GUI element or other interface element for displaying the list of results. For example the results list may include a dialog box pop up dialog box a combo box or other GUI element.

The CHD access interface may also include a challenge response mechanism . This challenge response mechanism can include any mechanism for preventing automated systems such as Internet bots from accessing CHD using the CHD access interface . For example the challenge response mechanism can include a security question a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart CAPTCHA as illustrated in combinations of the same or the like.

In some embodiments the CHD provisioning interface includes GUI fields for specifying a transaction. Advantageously in certain embodiments the tokenization provider system can perform the transaction for the third party merchant . Thus in some embodiments the CHD provisioning interface may not present the CHD to the third party merchant . However the CHD provisioning interface may present the status of the transaction including a confirmation value.

Similar to the token sharing environment the token sharing environment can include a tokenization provider system a merchant environment and a third party merchant environment . Further the token sharing environment may include one or more merchant environments . In addition although not depicted the token sharing environment may include a number of credit card processors.

Although does not illustrate any systems or subsystems associated with the tokenization provider system in certain embodiments the tokenization provider system may include some or all of the systems included by the tokenization provider system . Further the tokenization provider system may include some or all of the embodiments described above with relation to the tokenization provider system . Similarly the merchant environment and the third party merchant environment may each include some or all of the embodiments described above with relation to the merchant environment and the third party merchant environment .

The one or more merchant environments may include any number or type of systems and configurations. In some cases some or all of the merchant environments may include at least some systems and configurations associated with the merchant environment the merchant environment the third party merchant environment and or the third party merchant environment . Further at least some of the merchant environments may use tokenization or include a token access system or other system associated with accessing and or sharing tokens.

In some embodiments a merchant associated with the merchant environment may obtain a token for a set of CHD. The merchant may obtain this token by for example swiping a credit card through the POS or entering CHD into the POS which is then provided to a tokenization system e.g. the tokenization provider system which provides the token to the merchant or to a system associated with the merchant environment e.g. the POS or the token repository .

The merchant using for example the token access system may cause the token to be associated with the third party merchant environment and or one or more of the merchant environments . Associating the token with the third party merchant environment may occur in response to a request from the third party merchant or another employee of the third party merchant or in response to a request from a customer of the merchant environment who for example may be considering using the services of the third party merchant environment . Advantageously in some embodiments by sharing the token with the third party environment the customer or an employee of the merchant environment can purchase products or services from the third party merchant environment without accessing the CHD. In some cases associating the token with the third party merchant environment may occur in response to a request by the merchant . Advantageously in certain embodiments the merchant can cause the token to be associated with the third party merchant environment before or without the third party merchant requesting access to the token.

Associating the token with the third party merchant environment can include generating an authorization factor using for example the authorization factor generator . Once the authorization factor is generated it may be provided to the third party merchant under the control of the merchant or in response to the merchant associating the token with the third party merchant environment . In some embodiments the authorization factor generator can include some or all of the features described above with respect to the authorization factor generation .

In some situations the third party merchant may require access to the CHD associated with the token. For example the third party merchant may want access to the CHD before completing a transaction to provide a service or product to a customer of the merchant . As described previously in some cases accessing the CHD may include obtaining the CHD. In some cases accessing the CHD may include the ability to use the CHD but may or may not include obtaining the CHD or having the ability to view the CHD. Although in some cases the inability to view the CHD prevents a merchant from viewing all the CHD in many cases at least some of the CHD may be viewable. For example although the third party merchant may not be able to view an account number the third party merchant may be able to view the name of the cardholder.

To use or access the CHD the third party merchant may use the computing system to communicate with a token access system associated with the merchant environment . In some cases the computing system may include a token access client . In other cases the token access client may be implemented as a separate system from the computing system . For some cases where the token access client is a separate system the third party merchant may access the token access client directly. In other cases the third party merchant may access the token access client via the computing system .

The computing system can generally include any type of computing system. In some implementations the computing system may be a general purpose computing system such as a desktop laptop or tablet which may include the functionality of the CHD access system and or the token access client through for example a software application or a hardware add on e.g. a dongle an expansion card or a USB connectable device . In other implementations the computing system may be a special purpose computing system which may include one or more hardware or software modules configured to provide the functionality of the CHD access system and or the token access client . In some embodiments the computing system can include some or all of the features described above with respect to the computing systems and .

The token access client can generally include any system that is capable of identifying a token source for obtaining access to a token associated with CHD. For example the token source may include the merchant environment or the tokenization provider system . In some cases the token access client may identify the token source based on the authorization factor provided to the third party merchant environment by the merchant environment using for example the token access system . In other cases the third party merchant may configure the token access client with the identity of the token source. In some cases the token access system may identify the merchant environment as the token source when providing the authorization factor to the third party merchant or the third party merchant environment .

Using the token access client the third party merchant may request access to a token from the merchant environment . This request may be provided to the token access system . The token access system can include any system that can generate tokens and provide access to the tokens to a merchant or employee of a merchant environment including the third party merchant environment . As illustrated the token access system may be located at the merchant environment in its entirety. However in some cases the token access system may be a distributed system. Further in some cases the token access system may be split between the merchant environment and the tokenization provider system . In some implementations the token access system may represent a thin client which can provide an Application Programming Interface API or any other type of interface for accessing a third party token access system which may be hosted by another merchant environment a tokenization provider system a token hosting service provider not shown or any other system that can store and or regulate access to tokens. In some embodiments the token access system can include some or all of the features described above with relation to the token access system . The token access system can include an authorization factor generator which as described above can provide an authorization factor associated with a token. In some embodiments the token access client may determine the merchant environment or token access system of the merchant environment to contact based on one or more of an authorization factor a merchant identifier or indication of the third party merchant . Thus the token access client can determine whether to communicate with the token access system or a token access system associated with one of the merchant environments .

As part of the request to access the token from the merchant environment or in response to a prompt from the token access system the third party merchant may provide an authorization factor to the token access system . If the token access system determines that the third party merchant or another employee of the third party merchant environment is authorized to access the token the token access system may provide the token to the third party merchant environment . The third party merchant can then use the CHD access system to access CHD associated with the token. Accessing the CHD can include the CHD access system providing the received token to the tokenization provider system and requesting access to the associated CHD. The tokenization provider system may then provide the third party merchant with access to the CHD associated with the token. As previously described providing access to the CHD can include providing the CHD to the third party merchant or enabling the third party merchant to complete a transaction using the CHD with or without providing the CHD to the third party merchant .

In some embodiments the token access system may include the CHD access system . In some cases in response to the request to access the token the token access system may use the CHD access system to obtain access to the CHD on behalf of the third party merchant . The third party merchant can provide transaction details such as the price of a product to the token access system at the merchant environment and the token access system can complete the transaction for the third party merchant environment and provide a confirmation to the third party merchant . In some embodiments the CHD access system can include some or all of the features described above with respect to the CHD access system .

In some embodiments some or all of the process and or the process may be performed by a system associated with the merchant environment to associate a token with the third party merchant environment . For example in some embodiments the token access system may be configured to perform one or more of the operations associated with the process and or the process . For instance the token access system may receive a request to associate a token with the third party merchant environment . If the third party merchant environment is authorized to access the tokens of the merchant environment the token access system may generate a set of random words or some other authorization factor and associate the set of random words with the token and the third party merchant environment or an employee thereof e.g. the third party merchant . The token access system can then provide the set of random words to the third party merchant environment or the third party merchant .

The process begins at block where for example the token access system receives a set of words from a user e.g. the third party merchant associated with the third party merchant environment . The token access system can compare the received set of words to a set of words associated with tokens stored at the token repository to determine if the user is authorized to access one or more of the tokens. Although the process is described with respect to a set of words it is possible to perform the process using any type of authorization factor including those previously described above. Further in some cases multiple checks may be performed. For instance the process can include determining whether a password matches a user and if so the process can then include a token identification check based on for example a set of words as described above.

In some embodiments the block includes authenticating the user. Authenticating the user may also include determining whether the user or the third party merchant environment is authorized to provide the set of words or to access the tokens of the merchant environment associated with the token access system . Some embodiments for authenticating the user and for determining the user s authorization are described above with respect to the blocks and .

At decision block the token access system determines whether the set of words match a set of random words associated with a token. If the set of words do not match the set of random words the token access system rejects the user or the user s request to access the token at the block . In some embodiments the decision block can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the decision block . Further in some embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the block .

If the token access system determines that the set of words match a set of random words associated with the token the token access system can provide the user with the token associated with the set of random words at block . In some cases the block may further include determining whether the token is associated with the user prior to providing the user with the token. In some embodiments the block may include providing the user with access to the token with or without providing the user with the token. For example the token access system may inform the user that the user has obtained access to the token and that in response to the user providing transaction details the token access system can complete the transaction for the user using the token. Advantageously in certain embodiments the third party merchant can complete a transaction using a token and CHD associated with the token without ever viewing or accessing the token or CHD.

At block the token access system can disassociate the set of random words from the token and the user. In some cases the block can include disassociating the token with the user e.g. the third party merchant . In certain embodiments some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the block may apply to the block .

The process begins at block where for example the computing system at the third party merchant environment using for example the token access client provides a set of words to a token access system hosted by the merchant environment . In certain embodiments the block may be part of an authentication process for accessing the token access system . Examples of authentication elements and processes that may be used herein are described in The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol draft ietf oauth v2 25 dated Mar. 8 2012 located at http tools.ietf.org html draft ietf oauth v2 25 last accessed Mar. 23 2012 and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In other embodiments the block may include an authentication process for authenticating the third party merchant . The set of words may then be used to identify the specific token to be accessed.

In some embodiments the block may include a process for determining the token access system and or merchant environment to access or to provide the set of words. In some cases determining the merchant environment to access is based on the set of words. In other cases the merchant environment is selected by the third party merchant . Alternatively the merchant environment is preselected by for example an administrator. In some cases the process may be performed in response to a system hosted by the merchant environment such as the token access system communicating with a system hosted by the third party merchant environment such as the computing system . In some cases the merchant environment may be selected via merchant specific identifiers such as a merchant account number. The merchant account number may be specified by a user associated with the third party merchant environment e.g. the third party merchant . Alternatively the merchant account number may be associated with the set of words or provided by the merchant who provided the set of words to the third party merchant environment .

At block the computing system receives a token associated with a set of cardholder data from the token access system . In some embodiments receiving the token may include receiving a copy of the token. Alternatively or in addition receiving the token may include receiving access to the token and or permission to use the token but in some embodiments does not include receiving a copy of the token. Advantageously in certain embodiments the third party merchant can use the token without the token being transmitted from the merchant environment or a system associated with the merchant environment to the third party merchant environment .

At block the computing system using for example the CHD access system may provide the token to a tokenization provider system to obtain access to the CHD associated with the token. At block the computing system may receive access to the CHD from the tokenization provider system . In some cases receiving access to the CHD may include receiving a copy of the CHD. The copy of the CHD may include an encrypted copy of the CHD which may be decrypted by for example the CHD access system . In other cases receiving access to the CHD may include obtaining permission to use the CHD at the tokenization provider system . In such cases the third party merchant using for example the computing system or POS may provide transaction details to the tokenization provider system . The tokenization provider system may then complete the transaction on behalf of the third party merchant . Advantageously in some embodiments the third party merchant can complete a transaction using the CHD without obtaining a copy of the CHD.

In some embodiments the third party merchant may provide the transaction details to for example the token access system hosted by the merchant environment . The token access system may then provide the transaction details and the token to the tokenization provider system which may complete the transaction on behalf of the third party merchant . Advantageously in some embodiments the third party merchant can complete a transaction using the CHD without ever obtaining a copy of the CHD or the token associated with the CHD.

The token access system can include an authorization factor generator a CHD access system and an interactive voice response IVR system . The authorization factor generator and the CHD access system of token access system can include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to the authorization factor generator and the CHD access system .

The IVR system can include any system that enables a user to interact with the token access system using voice input. The voice input can include voice commands as well as any information or data that can be provided by voice. Further the IVR system can prompt a user to provide commands and or data via an audio prompt. Although configured for voice input and audio output in some embodiments the IVR system can be configured to interact with a user via other methods and mechanisms. For example in some cases the IVR system can be an interactive voice and video response IVVR system capable of interacting with a user via both voice and video. In some cases the IVR system can interact with the user via static images and or an interactive user interface which may include audio video or images.

A user can use one or more of a telephone dumbphone a feature phone a smartphone and a computing device e.g. a laptop desktop tablet etc. to interact with the IVR system . For example a user can use a system or service that utilizes Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP to interact with the IVR system . Further in some embodiments a computer or computing system can interact with the IVR system . Advantageously in certain embodiments configuring a computer system to interact with the IVR system enables interacting with the IVR system using an automated system and or process.

The process begins at block where for example the token access system authenticates a user via the IVR system . Authenticating the user can include requesting the user provide information associated with the user to the IVR system . This information can include a unique identifier e.g. a social security number a unique account number etc. a pin number an answer to a security question a name or any other information that can be used to help identify the user or verify the user s specified identity. If the user is not successfully authenticated the process may end provide the user an opportunity to re authenticate and or alert an administrator. Generally the user is a human. However in some cases the user may be an automated system or a computing system.

At block the IVR system prompts the user to provide a token. The IVR system receives the token from the user at block . This token can include any string of alphanumeric characters and symbols that may be supplied via a phone and or keyboard and can be associated with CHD. At decision block the token access system determines whether the user is associated with the token. In some embodiments determining whether the user is associated with the token can include determining whether the user is identified as an owner of the token. Further in some cases determining whether the user is associated with the token can include determining whether the user is authorized to share the token with other users.

If the user is associated with the token the IVR system provides the user with the authorization factor at block . Providing the authorization factor to the user enables the user to share token access with a another user or third party user to whom the user provides the authorization factor. In some embodiments the third party user may be prevented from accessing the token regardless of whether the third party user has the authorization factor. For example if the third party user is not registered with the token access system having access to the authorization factor may not be sufficient to use the token or access CHD associated with the token. In some embodiments the block can include the user identifying or registering the third party user to whom the user intends to share the authorization factor thereby enabling the token access system to verify that a user providing the authorization factor to the token access system is authorized to access the token. Advantageously in certain embodiments registering the intended recipient or third party user with the token access system creates a multi factor authorization system as the third party user should be registered with the token access system and should have access to the authorization factor before accessing a token.

The authorization factor provided at the block can include any type of authorization factor that may be provided by an IVR system . For example the authorization factor can include a set of words characters numbers or sounds. Moreover in some cases the authorization factor provided by the IVR system can include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to authorization factors. For example the authorization factor may be associated with a theme such as colors animals or places. In some cases an authorization factor may be easier to remember than a token. Thus in certain cases a user may use the process to obtain an authorization factor for his or her own use to facilitate accessing a token. Moreover in certain cases the authorization factor may be used as the token.

If the user is not associated with the token the token access system rejects the user at block . Rejecting the user can include the IVR system informing the user that the user is not authorized to access the token. In some embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the blocks and .

The process begins at block where for example the token access system authenticates a user via the IVR system . Authenticating the user can include requesting the user provide information associated with the user to the IVR system . This information can include a unique identifier e.g. a social security number a unique account number etc. a pin number an answer to a security question a name or any other information that can be used to help identify the user or verify the user s specified identity. If the user is not successfully authenticated the process may end provide the user an opportunity to re authenticate and or alert an administrator. Generally the user is a human. However in some cases the user may be an automated system or a computing system. In certain embodiments the block is optional.

At block the IVR system prompts the user to provide one or more pieces of CHD. This CHD can generally include any type of CHD such as a card number an expiration date a card security or verification code e.g. a CVC code a CVV2 code a CVC2 code etc. a cardholder name etc. In some cases the requested CHD may depend on the type of card and or the entity associated with the token access system or using the token access system . The IVR system receives the CHD from the user at block . Subsequent to receiving the CHD the token access system verifies the CHD at block . Verifying the CHD can include any process that may be used to verify at least a subset of the CHD. For example verifying the CHD can include performing one or more algorithmic checks on the CHD e.g. a Luhn test contacting a provider of the card associated with the CHD and performing a micro transaction or a small transaction using the CHD. In some embodiments the block may be optional.

At block the token access system generates a token. In some embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the block . Further the token can include any type of token as has previously been described. Typically the token is unique. However in some cases a token may be a duplicate token or a reused token. For example a token associated with expired CHD may be re associated with CHD that is not expired. Moreover although the token generally includes a random or pseudo random value that is unrelated to the CHD in some cases the token may be based at least in part on the CHD. For example the first portion of the token may include a portion of CHD e.g. the first 4 digits of a card number or may be generated based on the portion of the CHD.

The token access system associates the token with the CHD in a repository at block . This repository can include any repository or data store designed to store a relationship between a token and CHD. For example the repository can include the token CHD relationship repository . In some cases the block can include storing the CHD and the token in the repository. In certain embodiments the block can include one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to the block .

At block the authorization factor generator generates an authorization factor associated with the token. The authorization factor can include any type of authorization factor as previously described with respect to . Further in some cases the authorization factor can include a set of random or pseudorandom words as described with respect to the block . For example the authorization factor may be the following set of four words green dog circle grape. Generally the authorization factor is unrelated to the token. However in some cases the authorization factor may be generated based at least in part on the token. For example the authorization factor generator may use portions of the token as an index for selecting words or values in a dictionary of available options. This dictionary may be predefined or it may itself be generated as for example part of the block . Advantageously in certain embodiments the authorization factor can serve as an anglicized token or a simplified token that is easier to remember than the token generated at the block which may include for example a string of random letters numbers and or symbols. Moreover in certain embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments described with respect to the block .

The token access system associates the authorization factor with the token in a repository at block . This repository may be the same repository described with respect to the block that stores the association between the token and the CHD. Alternatively the authorization factor and token relationship may be stored at another repository such as the token access repository . In certain embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments described with respect to the block . Further in certain embodiments the block can include associating the authorization factor with the user. In such embodiments the block may include one or more of the embodiments previously described with respect to the block . Moreover in certain embodiments the block can include associating the authorization factor with one or more additional users specified by the user.

At block the IVR system provides the authorization factor to the user. The authorization factor may be presented to the user via audio images video or any combination thereof. Further in some cases the authorization factor may be provided to one or more additional users whom the user has specified as being authorized to access the token. In certain embodiments the block can include one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to the block . Instead of or in addition to using the IVR system to prevent the authorization factor to the user the token access system may provide the authorization factor to the user via any other communication mechanism for providing information to a user. For example the token access system can provide the authorization factor to the user via a text message an email a voicemail message or an instant message to name a few.

In some embodiments the token access system is operated by a different entity than each of the tokenization provider systems. Alternatively the token access system may be part of one of the tokenization provider systems or operated by an entity that operates one of the tokenization provider systems. The remaining tokenization provider systems may then rent or purchase the use of the token access system from the tokenization provider system or the entity that operates the tokenization provider system. For example the token access system may be part of the tokenization provider system and the operators of tokenization provider systems and may contract to use the token access system from the operator of the tokenization provider system . Advantageously in certain embodiments the entities that operate the tokenization provider systems and may provide the service of enabling their tokens to be shared without managing their own token access system by using the token access system associated with the tokenization provider system .

The tokenization provider systems can communicate with the token access system via the network . Further the merchants and can communicate with the token access system and the tokenization provider systems via the network . In some cases at least one of the merchants can be a third party merchant environment e.g. the third party merchant environment as previously described. In some cases the merchant may serve as a third party merchant to the merchant and vice versa.

In certain embodiments the token access system can create authorization factor pools e.g. four word pools image pools sound pools that are uniquely associated with one of the tokenization provider systems. Thus each tokenization provider system can be associated with a unique pool of authorization factors. For example assuming that the authorization factor is based on sets of words the tokenization provider system may be associated with a word pool that includes words starting with letters A H the tokenization provider system may be associated with a word pool that includes words starting with letters I N and the tokenization provider system may be associated with a word pool that includes words starting with letters O Z .

The token access system can include multiple authorization factor pool repositories that can be associated with the tokenization provider systems. Each of the tokenization factor pool repositories can include the authorization factors that can be used or randomly selected for enabling a merchant or third party merchant to obtain access to a token from a particular tokenization provider system. For example the tokenization provider system may be associated with the authorization factor pool the tokenization provider system may be associated with the authorization factor pool and the tokenization provider system may be associated with the authorization factor pool . In some embodiments each of the authorization factor pools may be stored in the same repository. Alternatively each of the authorization factor pools may be stored in separate repositories which may or may not be stored at the same location. In some embodiments each authorization factor pool may include different authorization factor types and or algorithms. For example the authorization factor pool may include an algorithm for selecting random words the authorization factor pool may include an algorithm for selecting random digits and the authorization factor pool may include an algorithm for selecting a combination of images and pass phrases.

Advantageously in certain embodiments by associating different authorization factor pools with each tokenization provider system tokens may be further protected because the authorization factors would be specific to the tokenization provider system associated with the authorization factor pool. Thus for example an authorization factor generated based on one authorization factor pool would not be meaningful or understood by tokenization provider systems not associated with the authorization factor pool.

Each time a merchant such as merchant requests an authorization factor to be provided to a third party merchant such as the merchant to enable the third party merchant to access a token the token access system can determine which tokenization provider system generated the token. The authorization factor generator can then generate an authorization factor such as a set of words using the authorization factor pool associated with the tokenization provider system that generated the token. For example if the token access system determines that the token identified by the merchant was generated by the tokenization provider system the authorization factor generator can generate an authorization factor using authorization factor pool .

In some embodiments the authorization factor is associated with the token or a reference to the token at the token access repository . Alternatively or in addition the authorization factor may be associated with the token or the reference to the token at the authorization factor pool corresponding to the tokenization provider system that generated the token.

As previously described in certain embodiments a third party merchant provides the authorization factor to the token access system to obtain access to the corresponding token associated with the authorization factor. The token access system can determine the tokenization provider system communicate with to obtain access the token corresponding to the authorization factor based on the authorization factor. For example if the authorization factor is a set of words and each of the words starts with a letter from A H the token access system can determine that it should access the tokenization provider system . In some embodiments the merchant attempting to obtain access to the token can specify the tokenization provider system when providing the authorization factor. The token access system can then determine if the selected tokenization provider system is the tokenization provider system associated with the authorization factor. If so the token access system can proceed with a process e.g. the process for granting the merchant with access to the token or associated CHD. If the token access system determines that the user or third party merchant identified the wrong tokenization provider system the token access system can prevent access to the requested token or CHD.

In some embodiments after obtaining access to the token corresponding to an authorization factor the token access system can provide the third party merchant with access to the corresponding CHD using the CHD access system which can include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to the CHD access system and or . Alternatively or in addition the tokenization provider system that generated the token provides access to the CHD associated with the token. As previously described providing access to a token and or CHD can in some cases include providing a user or merchant with a copy of the token and or CHD. In other cases providing access to a token and or CHD can involve enabling a user or merchant to use the token and or CHD without enabling the user or merchant to view the token and or CHD.

The process begins at block where for example the token access system receives the identity of a token from a merchant e.g. the merchant . In some embodiments the block can include some or all of the embodiments as previously described for receiving the identity of a token such as the embodiments described with respect to the block . Further in some embodiments the process may include identifying the merchant or user and determining whether the merchant is authorized to grant token access as described previously with respect to for example the process .

At bock the token access system identifies a tokenization provider system e.g. the tokenization provider system that generated the token identified at the block . In some embodiments the token access system may identify the tokenization provider system based on the identified token data received from the merchant information stored in one or more repositories e.g. the token access repository by querying one or more tokenization provider systems or by any other method for identify a tokenization provider system that generated a token.

At block the authorization factor generator generates an authorization factor based on the authorization factor pool associated with the tokenization provider system identified at the block . For example assuming the tokenization provider system is associated with the authorization factor pool and that the token identified at the block was generated by the tokenization provider system the authorization factor generator may generate the authorization factor based on an algorithm or pool of eligible authorization factors stored at the authorization factor pool . Generating the authorization factor can include selecting an authorization factor either randomly pseudo randomly or programmatically based on an algorithm. These authorization factors can include any type of authorization factor as previously described with respect to for example and or the block . For example the authorization factor can be a set of one or more random words or a set of images.

At block the token access system or the authorization factor generator associates the authorization factor with the token. In some embodiments the association between the authorization factor and the token may be stored at the token access repository . In other embodiments the association may be stored at the authorization factor pool associated with the tokenization provider system that generated the token. Alternatively or in addition the association may be stored at the tokenization provider system that generated the token. Further in such cases the token access system may provide the authorization factor to the tokenization provider system and the tokenization provider system may associate the authorization factor with the token. In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block .

At block the token access system receives the identity of a merchant e.g. the merchant . Generally although not necessarily the merchant identified at the block differ from the merchant that provided the identity of the token at the block . In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block . Further as previously described with for example the process the process may in some embodiments include determining whether the merchant identified at the block is authorized to access tokens.

The token access system at block associates the authorization factor with the merchant identified at the block . In some embodiments the tokenization provider system that generated the token may perform the block in response to receiving the identity of the merchant from the user and or the token access system . In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block .

At block the token access system provides the authorization factor to the merchant identified at the block . In some embodiments the token access system provides the authorization factor to the merchant that identified the token at the block who can then provide the authorization factor to the merchant identified at the block . In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block .

The process begins at block where for example the token access system receives an authorization factor from a user e.g. the merchant or a representative thereof . In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block . Further in some embodiments the process may include receiving authentication information from the user and determining whether the user is authorized to access the token access system or a tokenization provider system associated with the authorization factor and or corresponding token as described previously with respect to for example the process .

At block the token access system identifies a tokenization provider system associated with the authorization factor. Identifying the tokenization provider system associated with the authorization factor can include accessing an authorization factor pool associated with the authorization factor. Determining the tokenization provider system and or authorization factor pool corresponding to the authorization factor may be based on the authorization factor the identity of the user and or information received from the user. For example if the authorization factor is a set of images the token access system may determine that the relationship between the authorization factor and the token is stored at the authorization factor pool and that the tokenization provider system generated the token.

At block the token access system identifies a token associated with the authorization factor at the tokenization provider system identified at the block . In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block and or .

At block the token access system provides the user with access to the token associated with the authorization factor. In some embodiments the block may include the CHD access system providing the user with access to the CHD associated with the token. In some cases the user is provided with access to the token and or CHD without enabling the user to view the token and or CHD. Further in some cases the block can include causing the tokenization provider system that generated the token to provide the user with access to the token and or corresponding CHD. In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block and or .

The token access system disassociates the authorization factor from the token and the user at block . Disassociating the authorization factor from the token and the user can include disassociating the authorization factor from the token and or user at one or more of the authorization factor pool repository and the tokenization provider system corresponding to the token. In some embodiments the block may include some or all of the embodiments previously described with respect to for example the block . In some embodiments the block is optional.

The process begins at block where for example the token access system accesses an authentication factor associated with a token. Accessing the authentication factor can include generating the authentication factor such as was previously described with respect to the block . Further as has previously been described the authentication factor can include any type of authentication factor including a set of random or pseudo random words. In some embodiments accessing the authentication factor associated with the token can include performing one or more of the previously described embodiments for associating a token with a merchant or a third party merchant who did not initiate creation of the token such as the embodiments described with respect to the process .

At block the token access system accesses an identifier associated with a merchant who is associated with the authentication factor. This merchant is typically a third party merchant e.g. the third party merchant who has been granted access at least temporarily to a token created for another merchant e.g. the merchant . However in some cases the merchant may be the same merchant for whom the token was created.

At block the token access system generates a machine readable code that includes the authentication factor and the merchant identifier. In some embodiments the machine readable code may include the authentication factor without including the merchant identifier. Further in some cases the machine readable code may include a URL or URI for accessing a network page or webpage associated with the tokenization provider system . This webpage may be configured for receiving the authentication factor for providing access to the token and or for providing access to CHD associated with the token. In some cases the machine readable code may include an expiration date and or time or a creation date and or time .

The machine readable code can include any type of machine readable code. In some embodiments the machine readable code may include any code that is sufficiently dense so as to be capable of encoding the information described above with respect to the block within a particular size code. In some cases the machine readable code may be a linear code e.g. U.P.C. MSI Code 128 etc. or a stacked linear code e.g. a stacked barcode . Alternatively or in addition the code may be a matrix or 2D type code. In certain embodiments using a matrix type code enables more information to be encoded in the machine readable code. Some examples of matrix type machine readable codes that may be used herein include Quick Response QR codes Aztec Codes ShotCodes MaxiCodes PDF417 codes SmartCodes In some embodiments machine readable code may include a combination of machine readable codes.

At block the token access system provides the machine readable code to the merchant identified at the block e.g. the third party merchant . Providing the machine readable code to the merchant includes emailing the machine readable code to the merchant presenting the machine readable code via a webpage presenting the machine readable code via an application such as an application for a mobile device or for a POS system.

The process begins at block where for example the POS accesses a machine readable code associated with a token. The POS may include a scanner that can scan the machine readable code. In some cases the machine readable code may be displayed on a screen of a computing system such as the computing system enabling the machine readable code to be scanned from the screen. In other cases the machine readable code may be scanned from a handheld device e.g. a smartphone of a merchant e.g. the third party merchant .

At block the POS extracts an authentication factor from the machine readable code. For instance the POS may extract a set of words encoded into the machine readable code. In some cases the POS or other system capable of scanning the machine readable code may scan the machine readable code and provide information extracted from the machine readable code to another computing system e.g. the computing system .

At block the POS or the computing system provides the authentication factor to the tokenization provider system . In some cases the block includes determining the tokenization provider system that manages the token associated with the authentication factor and providing the authentication factor to the identified tokenization provider system. In some embodiments providing the authentication factor to the tokenization provider system includes extracting a URL or URI from the machine readable code opening a webpage associated with the URL or URI and automatically providing the authentication factor via the webpage. In other cases the computing system may display the authentication factor to a user e.g. the third party merchant thereby enabling the user to enter the authentication manually into the webpage.

At block the computing system authenticates the merchant user e.g. the third party merchant to the tokenization provider system . Authenticating the merchant user can include accessing a digital certificate from a secure area of the computing system and providing the digital certificate to the tokenization provider system . Alternatively or in addition authenticating the merchant user may include presenting the merchant user with a challenge response authentication page provided by the tokenization provider system for authentication the merchant user. In some embodiments the block may be optional.

At block the POS receives from the tokenization provider system access to the CHD associated with the token that is associated with the authentication factor provided at the block . In some cases the receiving access to the CHD includes receiving a copy of the CHD to use for a transaction and or for a limited period of time. In other cases receiving access to the CHD includes being able to use the CHD at the tokenization provider system by for example providing information for performing a transaction to the tokenization provider system which can then complete the transaction using the CHD on behalf of the merchant user.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a system for sharing cardholder data CHD . Further in some embodiments the system includes a token access client associated with a first merchant or a first merchant environment. The token access client may be configured to provide a request to obtain access to a token associated with CHD to a token access system associated with a second merchant or a second merchant environment. The request can include an authorization factor. In response to providing the request the token access client may receive access to the token from the token access system. Further the token access system can initiate a transaction using the token thereby enabling the first merchant to initiate the transaction without receiving a copy of the CHD.

In some embodiments receiving access to the token includes receiving a copy of the token. Further the token access client may be configured to initiate the transaction by providing transaction information to a tokenization provider system. In some cases providing the transaction information to the tokenization provider system enables the tokenization provider system to perform the transaction. In some embodiments the tokenization provider system generated the token.

In some embodiments receiving access to the token includes receiving authorization to use the token without receiving a copy of the token. Further the token access client may be configured to initiate the transaction by providing transaction information to the token access system. In some cases providing the transaction information to the token access system enables the token access system to initiate the transaction.

In some embodiments the request to obtain access to the token can include the transaction information. Further the token access client may initiate the transaction by providing the request to the token access system.

In some embodiments the token access client may be configured to identify or to select a token access system from a plurality of token access systems. In some cases the token access client may identify or select the token access system based at least in part on the authorization factor. Alternatively or in addition the token access client may identify or select the token access system based at least in part on a user configuration of the token access client. For example the user may identify the token access system or a merchant associated with the token access system at or near a time of the request to obtain token access. As a second example the user may configure the token access client to identify the token access system based on a set of codes a type of transaction or any other information that can be associated with a particular token access system.

Although the authorization factor and the token are described above as including random or pseudo random values one or both of the authorization factor and the token may include non random values. For example a formula or algorithm may be used to identify one or more words from a dictionary to use as an authorization factor.

Further as has been described above obtaining access to a token in some cases can include obtaining a copy of the token. In other cases obtaining access to the token may include obtaining authorization to use the token but may not include obtaining a copy of the token. Further in some cases obtaining access to the token may include obtaining permission to use the token whether or not a copy of the token is obtained.

Although merchants have been described as employees of merchant environments e.g. retail establishments or entities in some cases merchants may include the merchant environment. Further in some cases the merchant may be a single individual an organization or a plurality of individuals. Moreover the merchant may be associated with a brick and mortar store a network based e.g. Internet based store or any other provider of goods or services.

A number of the processes described above describe one or more systems interacting with a user. For example the process describes receiving user authentication information associated with the third party merchant at the block . However in certain embodiments some or all of the previously described processes can be performed by one or more systems interacting with one or more additional systems. For instance again using the block as an example the user authentication information may be associated with the computing system . Alternatively or in addition the user authentication information may be associated with the third party merchant and may be received from the computing system either in response to a user command or through an automated process.

A number of computing systems have been described throughout this disclosure. The descriptions of these systems are not intended to limit the teachings or applicability of this disclosure. Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. For example the token access system the CHD access system and the authorization factor generator can each be implemented as separate servers or computing systems or alternatively as one server or computing system. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Further various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise the data repositories shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any of the subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

Each of the various illustrated systems may be implemented as a computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices e.g. physical servers workstations storage arrays etc. that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor or multiple processors that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non transitory computer readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application specific circuitry e.g. ASICs or FPGAs of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices these devices may but need not be co located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices such as solid state memory chips and or magnetic disks into a different state. Each service described such as those shown in may be implemented by one or more computing devices such as one or more physical servers programmed with associated server code.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

