---

title: Tracking career progression based on user activities
abstract: A method for generating career progression information for a user participating in one or more activities in a processing device is disclosed. User progress in the activities is tracked. The activities include game activities and non-game activities. Achievement scores for the user based on the game activities and the non-game activities are determined. The achievement scores are aggregated across the game activities and the non-game activities to generate an aggregated career score for the user. Career progression information is generated for the user, based on the aggregated career score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08814672&OS=08814672&RS=08814672
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08814672
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130910
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 820 975 filed on Jun. 22 2010 entitled TRACKING CAREER PROGRESSION BASED ON USER ACTIVITIES which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The console and personal computer based video game experience has evolved from one in which an isolated gaming experience was provided into one in which users on a variety of processing devices such as personal computers and mobile devices can interact with each other to share a common game experience. One example of a system that enables users to communicate with each other is Microsoft s Xbox 360 Live online game service. Using such systems users are provided with a rich interactive experience which may be shared in real time between friends and other gamers. For example users can track their own and their friends progress via different applications maintained by the online game service through the concept of game scores and achievements.

Technology is disclosed by which a user s progress and accomplishments across one or more activities may be tracked based on a user s participation in one or more activities on a variety of processing devices. The processing devices may include for example a gaming and media console a mobile device such as for example a cell phone a web enabled smart phone a personal digital assistant a palmtop computer or a laptop computer a personal computer and the like. The activities may include game related activities such as for example single player games or multiplayer games executing in the user s processing device or non game related activities such as online transaction activities or other group interaction activities that a user may wish to participate in. Information about a user s accomplishments across all game activities and non game activities is utilized to generate career progression information for the user. The career progression information is displayed via a user interface in the user s processing device to the user.

In one embodiment a method for generating career progression information for a user participating in one or more activities in a processing device is provided. The user s progress in one or more of the activities is tracked. The activities include game activities and non game activities. Achievement scores for the user based on the game activities and the non game activities are determined. The achievement scores are aggregated across the game activities and the non game activities to generate an aggregated career score for the user. Career progression information is generated for the user based on the aggregated career score.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Disclosed herein is a method and system by which career progression information for a user participating in a variety of activities in a processing device is generated. The career progression information includes information about a user s accomplishments across all game activities and non game activities that the user participates in. In one embodiment of the disclosed technology a user on a processing device may invoke a career progression service executing in a multiplayer gaming service to participate in one or more activities via a user interface in the user s processing device. The career progression service may generate career progression information for the user based on the user s participation in a variety of activities. The career progression information may include achievement scores related to game and non game activities related to the user an aggregation of the achievement scores across all game activities and non game activities that the user participates in and career milestones and career awards assigned to the user. In another embodiment of the disclosed technology the career progression information may be displayed to the user via a user interface in the user s processing device.

As depicted in console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display such as monitor via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet. The broadband capabilities can also be provided wirelessly through a broadband network such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. In an example illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons and two triggers . These controllers are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

In one implementation a memory unit MU may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters for use when playing on other consoles. In this implementation each controller is configured to accommodate two MUs although more or less than two MUs may also be employed.

Gaming and media system is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from an optical disk media e.g. from an online source or from MU .

During operation console is configured to receive input from controllers and display information on display . For example console can display a user interface on display to allow a user to participate in a multiplayer game using controller .

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The details of the bus that is used in this implementation are not particularly relevant to understanding the subject matter of interest being discussed herein. However it will be understood that such a bus might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and portable media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types can also be applied in the alternative.

A graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in console includes a controller support subassembly for supporting four controllers . The controller support subassembly includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device such as for example a media and game controller. A front panel I O subassembly supports the multiple functionalities of power button the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of console . Subassemblies and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . In other implementations console can include additional controller subassemblies. The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals that can be communicated to module .

MUs and are illustrated as being connectable to MU ports A and B respectively. Additional MUs e.g. MUs are illustrated as being connectable to controllers and i.e. two MUs for each controller. Controllers and can also be configured to receive MUs not shown . Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into console or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller . A system power supply module provides power to the components of gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within console .

An application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . When console is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU wherein application is one such example. Various applications can be stored on hard disk drive for execution on CPU .

Gaming and media system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to monitor a television a video projector or other display device. In this standalone mode gaming and media system enables one or more players to play games or enjoy digital media e.g. by watching movies or listening to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface gaming and media system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community as discussed in connection with .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Mobile device may include for example processors memory including applications and non volatile storage. The processor can implement communications as well any number of applications including the applications discussed herein. Memory can be any variety of memory storage media types including non volatile and volatile memory. A device operating system handles the different operations of the mobile device and may contain user interfaces for operations such as placing and receiving phone calls text messaging checking voicemail and the like. The applications can be any assortment of programs such as a camera application for photos and or videos an address book a calendar application a media player an internet browser games an alarm application or other third party applications. The non volatile storage component in memory contains data such as web caches music photos contact data scheduling data and other files.

The processor also communicates with RF transmit receive circuitry which in turn is coupled to an antenna with an infrared transmitted receiver and with a movement orientation sensor such as an accelerometer and a magnetometer . Accelerometers have been incorporated into mobile devices to enable such applications as intelligent user interfaces that let users input commands through gestures indoor GPS functionality which calculates the movement and direction of the device after contact is broken with a GPS satellite and to detect the orientation of the device and automatically change the display from portrait to landscape when the phone is rotated. An accelerometer can be provided e.g. by a micro electromechanical system MEMS which is a tiny mechanical device of micrometer dimensions built onto a semiconductor chip. Acceleration direction as well as orientation vibration and shock can be sensed. The processor further communicates with a ringer vibrator a user interface keypad screen a speaker a microphone a camera a light sensor and a temperature sensor . Magnetometers have been incorporated into mobile devices to enable such applications as a digital compass that measure the direction and magnitude of a magnetic field in the vicinity of the mobile device track changes to the magnetic field and display the direction of the magnetic field to users.

The processor controls transmission and reception of wireless signals. During a transmission mode the processor provides a voice signal from microphone or other data signal to the transmit receive circuitry . The transmit receive circuitry transmits the signal to a remote station e.g. a fixed station operator other cellular phones etc. for communication through the antenna . The ringer vibrator is used to signal an incoming call text message calendar reminder alarm clock reminder or other notification to the user. During a receiving mode the transmit receive circuitry receives a voice or other data signal from a remote station through the antenna . A received voice signal is provided to the speaker while other received data signals are also processed appropriately.

Additionally a physical connector can be used to connect the mobile device to an external power source such as an AC adapter or powered docking station. The physical connector can also be used as a data connection to a computing device. The data connection allows for operations such as synchronizing mobile device data with the computing data on another device. A global positioning service GPS receiver utilizing satellite based radio navigation to relay the position of the user applications is enabled for such service.

Multiplayer gaming service includes one or more applications which may include one or more game applications and user account records . Multiplayer gaming service may also include a third party application programming interface which allows third party application developers to provide their own applications which may include one or more game applications in conjunction with the multiplayer gaming service . Various components of the applications may be run on the multiplayer gaming service and or the consoles or processing devices. In one embodiment third party gaming developers having applications may register the applications with the multiplayer gaming service via a registry . In alternative embodiments multiplayer games may be administered and provided directly by third party developers but utilize services of the multiplayer gaming service such as the download agent and the connection service to allow users having access to consoles to connect to each other. Third party developers may provide one or more applications and game management services at . Game management services can provide updates on user sessions including where game play lobbies and rooms of users gather for multiplayer game connections various episodes and games including episodic content various gaming channels rooms for basic intermediate and advanced players and the like. User account records may include the user s friend list individual game records and a record of the user s career progression information . In one embodiment and as will be discussed below the user s career progression information may include game and non game achievement scores aggregated career score information career milestone information and career award information for users participating in one or more activities in the processing devices A X.

In one embodiment users on processing devices A X may invoke a career progression service in the multiplayer gaming service to participate in one or more activities in the processing devices A X. In one embodiment users on processing devices A X may invoke the career progression service via a user interface in the user s processing device. illustrate various user interface screens that enable a user to perform one or more operations of the disclosed technology. In one embodiment one such service for enabling users to participate in a variety of activities access game related content movie trailers video footage multimedia content and the like may be provided by the Halo Waypoint application developed for Microsoft s Xbox 360 video game system.

In one embodiment a user interface may be provided to the user via a career progression application in the user s processing device. The career progression application may be provided to processing devices A X utilizing the download agent . This allows the career progression application to be stored and run on the individual processing devices or the career progression application may be provided to users on processing devices A X directly through the web server .

In accordance with the disclosed technology the career progression service may interact with a game activity tracking service a non game activity tracking service and a user activity service to generate career progression information for a user participating in one or more activities in processing devices A X. In one embodiment career progression information may include information about a user s accomplishments across all game activities and non game activities that the user participates in. The career progression information may be stored in user accounts records . In one embodiment the career progression service the game activity tracking service the non game activity tracking service and the user activity service may be implemented as software modules to perform the operations of the disclosed technology.

The user activity service provides users on processing devices A X with one or more activities which may include game activities and non game activities. Game activities may include for example one or more game applications executing in the multiplayer gaming service that may be provided to users on processing devices A X by the user activity service . Alternatively game activities may be provided to users on processing devices A X via one or more game applications stored locally on the user s processing device or directly through the web server . Non game activities may include but are not limited to online transaction activities book activities news and event activities movie activities and group interaction activities that may be provided to users on processing devices A X by the user activity service . Online transaction activities may include for example transactions of game or non game related content transactions of products or merchandise such as game apparel or game accessories or transactions of books or movies by users book activities may include book reviews provided by users news and event activities may include for example previews of web episodes game play videos and gameplay related strategies provided by users movie activities may include trailers and videos and group interaction activities may include for example chat sessions between users.

The game activity tracking service in the multiplayer gaming service tracks a user s progress in a game activity in the user s processing device and determines an achievement score related to the game activity for the user. The non game activity tracking service in the multiplayer gaming service tracks a user s progress in a non game activity in the user s processing device and determines an achievement score related to the non game activity for the user. The career progression service may then generate career progression information for a user based on the achievement scores received from the game activity tracking service and the non game activity tracking service . The technique of determining achievement scores and generating career progression information is discussed in .

Multiplayer gaming service may also include a user authentication service wherein each user on one or more of the processing devices A B N X has associated therewith a unique user identifier such as a gamer tag which is used to uniquely identify the user within the multiplayer gaming service . When a user seeks to play or interact with one of the applications or with other users on other processing devices connection by and or between the users is controlled by first requiring each of the users to authenticate themselves to the multiplayer gaming service via the user authentication service . The connection service allows different users on different processing devices to participate in activities resident on those devices with other users and maintains connections between the users. An exemplary connection service is Microsoft s X Box Live service provided by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash.

Console X illustrates functional components of applications and activities which may be occurring on any one or more of the devices A B N X. Console X may include a number of game applications executed by the processing device of the console X. In one embodiment console X may also include a career progression application as discussed above. Each device X may include a content engine which executes one or more functions to enable gameplay and or application usage on the processing device X. The content engine can include for example parental controls reminders status updates an internal messaging system and networking capabilities to enable the devices to couple to the internet or other network .

At step a user may be prompted by a user interface in the user s processing device to select a game activity. illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that enables a user to select a game activity. In one embodiment the user interface screen may be provided to the user via the career progression application in the user s processing device. If the user selects to participate in a game activity at step the game activity is provided to the multiplayer gaming service to track in step . illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that displays one or more game activities for users on processing devices A X. Specifically the game activity tracking service in the multiplayer gaming service may track a user s progress in the game activity and determine an achievement score related to the game activity for the user. At step a user receives an achievement score related to the game activity from the multiplayer gaming service . At step the achievement score is displayed to the user on the user s processing device. illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that displays an achievement score related to a game activity for a user. The technique of determining an achievement score for a game activity is discussed in .

If at step the user does not select to participate in a game activity then at step a check is made as to whether the user has selected to participate in a non game activity. As discussed above a non game activity may include for example online transaction activities book activities news and event activities movie activities and group interaction activities that may be provided to users on processing devices A X by the user activity service in the multiplayer gaming service . illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that displays one or more non game activities for users on processing devices A X. At step a user may be prompted by a user interface in the user s processing device to select a non game activity. illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that enables a user to select a non game activity. If the user selects to participate in a non game activity at step the non game activity is provided to the multiplayer gaming service to track at step . At step a user receives an achievement score related to the non game activity from the multiplayer gaming service . At step the achievement score for the non game activity is displayed to the user. illustrates an exemplary user interface screen that displays an achievement score for a non game related activity for the user.

In one embodiment a user may also receive career progression information from the career progression service in the multiplayer gaming service at step . As discussed the career progression information includes information about the user s accomplishments across all game activities and non game activities that the user participates in. The technique by which career progression information may be generated by the career progression service in the multiplayer gaming service is discussed in detail in . In step the career progression information is displayed to the user. If the user does not wish to participate in a game activity at step or a non game activity at step then the user is returned to a user interface on the user s processing device at step .

At step a determination is made as to whether achievement criteria related to the game activity have been met by the user. As will be appreciated users may be awarded with game achievements based on mastering certain in game facets of the games they play. Game achievements may be awarded to users based on multiple criteria such as for example a first sign in to the game completing a first session with a game completing a first hour of a game completing one hundred sessions with a game completing ten hours with a game completing a game and the like. If it is determined that the user has met one or more achievement criteria then an achievement score related to the game activity is determined in step . In one embodiment an achievement score related to a game activity for a user is determined as a percentage of the total number of game defined credit points assigned to the game activity. The total number of game defined credit points for a particular game activity may be pre defined by the system . For example if the total number of game defined credit points assigned to a game is 100 credit points and the user completes a first session of the game the user may be awarded 25 of the 100 total game defined credit points or an achievement score of 25 in one embodiment.

In step the achievement score is provided to the user s processing device. In one embodiment the game activity tracking service in the multiplayer gaming service determines an achievement score related to the game activity for the user and provides the achievement score to the user s processing device. If at step it is determined that achievement criteria have not yet been met then the progress of the game activity is tracked at step until one or more achievement criteria are met.

If at step the user has not selected to participate in a game activity a check is made to determine if the user has selected to participate in a non game activity in step . A user may select to participate in a non game activity as discussed in step in and via the user interface illustrated in . If the user has selected to participate in a non game activity the non game activity is tracked at step . At step a determination is made as to whether achievement criteria related to the non game activity have been met by the user. Achievement criteria related to a non game activity may be defined in a manner similar to the achievement criteria related to a game activity as discussed above. For example achievement criteria for a non game activity may be determined based on criteria such as the number of movies watched by a user or the number of books purchased by the user in one embodiment.

If it is determined that the user has met one or more achievement criteria then an achievement score related to the non game activity is determined in step . In step the achievement score is provided to the user s processing device. In one embodiment the non game activity tracking service in the multiplayer gaming service determines an achievement score related to the non game activity for the user and provides the achievement score to the user s processing device. If at step it is determined that achievement criteria have not yet been met then the progress of the non game activity is tracked at step until one or more achievement criteria are met.

In accordance with the disclosed technology the achievement score for the game activity determined at step and the achievement score for the non game activity determined at step may be utilized to generate an aggregated career score for the user at step . In one embodiment the aggregated career score is a numeric value representing an aggregation of the achievement scores across one or more of the game activities and the non game activities related to the user. In step a career milestone is assigned to the user based on the aggregated career score. In one embodiment a career milestone represents a numeric achievement level of a user s progress across one or more of the game activities and the non game activities based on the aggregated career score. For example a user may unlock a certain career milestone when the user reaches a certain numeric value of the aggregated career score.

In step a career award may be provided to the user based on the career milestone. In one embodiment a career award is a title provided to the user that is representative of the user s accomplishments in a specific game or non game activity. A career award may be presented to a user when the user accomplishes a specific group of career milestones related to a game activity or a non game activity. For example a user may be awarded with a vehicle specialist award when the user completes a group of career milestones related to a game or non game activity related to vehicles. A career award tier may be associated with a career award in one embodiment. For example a user may earn a first tier of a career award by completing a specific number of career milestones. It is to be appreciated that a career award tier may not necessarily be associated with all types of career awards and all career awards may necessarily not include the same number of career award tiers. In step career progression information is generated for the user and provided to the user on the user s processing device. In one embodiment the career progression information may include for example the achievement scores related to game activities and non game activities the aggregated career score the career milestones and the career awards associated with the user. is a user interface screen that displays career progression information for a user.

In an alternate embodiment one or more groups of users in processing devices A X may wish to participate in activities such as game activities and non game activities with each other. Group career progression information including group game achievement scores group non game achievement scores group aggregated career scores group career milestones and group career awards may be generated for one or more groups of users in a manner similar to the disclosed technique of generating career progression information for individual users participating in one or more activities in processing devices A X as discussed above.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

