---

title: System and method for responding to service requests and facilitating communication between relevant parties
abstract: Various systems, methods, and computer program products for responding to service requests and facilitating communication between relevant parties are provided. The system may receive a request from a user, obtain a user location, identify a service provider such as an emergency response center based on the location, facilitate coordination of response efforts, and provide a page that is shared between various parties such as the user, contacts of the user, an operator, and a responder. The various parties may provide to the system inputs such as video to capture what is currently happening. The page may be updated with the inputs, include a status of the service request such as whether responders have been dispatched, and include a current location of the responders and other users. Using the page, various parties may obtain real-time situational awareness of an event that culminated in the service request and communicate with other users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792867&OS=08792867&RS=08792867
owner: beamSmart Inc.
number: 08792867
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130116
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 740 826 filed Jan. 14 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to responding to service requests and facilitating communication between relevant parties that are related to the service request.

Requesting services may be cumbersome especially for services such as emergency or roadside service that require a location of a user making the service request. The user in many instances may be unable to personally initiate or respond to emergency operators or services. In addition coordination between the user emergency service providers e.g. 911 service in North America and or family and friends of the user may be difficult to achieve in real time during an emergency or other event that may require service.

Furthermore such communication may require large amounts of communication bandwidth and may be dependent on the availability of particular communication channels. For example a good telephone connection may be required.

As such what is needed is to be able to respond to a service request and facilitate communication among various relevant parties. What is further needed is to be able to facilitate coordination of response efforts while maintaining communication between the relevant parties. These and other problems exist.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks relates to a system and method for responding to service requests and facilitating communication between relevant parties. In some embodiments a user may generate a service request such as an emergency request a roadside assistance request and or other type of request. A page server may receive the request and identify an appropriate service provider based on a location of the user and or the type of request being made. In order to facilitate communication between different users the page server may create a page that is shared among different users and entities such as the user making the request an operator who dispatches responders responders who service the request and contacts such as family members who may be interested in receiving updates. Each of the users and entities may provide input to the page server which may update the page based on the input and communicate the updated page to the various users. By providing a platform by which various users and entities may communicate with one another the system may facilitate enhanced communication and status updates between the various parties provide real time situational awareness to responders and allow the various parties to receive updates as the situation unfolds.

In some embodiments the page server may be programmed with various computer program modules to provide the features and functions described herein. For example the page server may be programmed with a registration module a page creator module a recipient selector module a communication channel selector module a page sharing module a workflow module a page update module and a voice and text conversion module.

In some embodiments the registration module may obtain information about the user that may be useful for first responders or other service personnel responding to the user s request. The generated page may include the obtained information so that responders and others have access to this information.

In some embodiments the registration module may register service providers such as a 911 call center a roadside assistance provider and or other providers in order to add providers to the system as appropriate. In this manner different providers may be added to the system from which the user may select to request services.

In some embodiments the page creator module may receive the service request from a user device and may obtain a location of the user via for example the location of the user device . In some embodiments the location may be obtained from the user device from which the request is made. In other embodiments the location may be obtained from a locator service such as for example a mobile service provider an internet service provider and or other service that can locate the user device.

In some embodiments the page creator module may obtain information about the user information related to the location of the user such as ambient conditions and crime reports related to the location and or other information that may be related to the service request.

In some embodiments the page creator module may receive media such as video audio pictures text and or other media content. The media may be received from the user device and or other device such as a device used by a contact an operator or a responder. For example a user having an emergency situation may stream video and or send a video file in association with an emergency request. The video audio pictures etc. may capture the situation in order to document what is happening and help responders obtain real time situational awareness of an event that led to the service request.

In some embodiments page creator module may retrieve a template that serves as a basis for creating a page. The template may be associated with the type of service being requested. For example an emergency request may be associated with an emergency service template and a roadside assistance request may be associated with a different template. A template may be configured to suit each type of service and may be provided by a service provider.

In some embodiments different templates may be created and used for different communication channels. For example a page that is to be shared via a broadband communication channel may be formatted differently than a page that is to be shared via Short Message Service SMS text. For example a page shared over SMS text may include less detail and content than a page shared over a broadband connection.

In some embodiments the page creator module may generate different versions of the page based on the communication channel over which the page is to be communicated.

In some embodiments the page creator module may generate a page based on at least some of the obtained user information media files streams templates and or other information known or obtained about the user information related to the surrounding location and or other information from other users. In some embodiments the page may include a map overlaid with an indicator that indicates a location of the user device and or various other devices such as a device used by a responder. The page may display the type of service request being made an indication of the status of the service request information obtained about the user and or information obtained about the location of the user.

In some embodiments the recipient selector module may identify service providers users such as contacts and or other entities that should receive the generated page. For example the recipient selector module may determine the type of service being requested and identify an appropriate service provider based on the type of service and or location of the user.

In some embodiments the communication channel selector module may determine which communication channel to use in order to share the generated page. Communication channels may include various mobile telecommunications networks such as without limitation fourth generation telecommunication network 4G third generation telecommunication network 3G the Internet Public Switched Telephone Networks Short Message Service messaging over mobile communications networks peer to peer networks ad hoc networks and or other technologies that allow data or voice communication. The communication channel may be selected based on current availability and or configurable rules that define which communication channel to use. In some embodiments certain communication channels may be preferred over others.

In some embodiments the page sharing module may share the page to recipients identified by the recipient selector module. In some embodiments the page sharing module may share the page via one or more communication channels selected by the communication selector module.

In some embodiments the page sharing module may allow the requestor using the user device or other users using other devices to share the page with other users not identified by recipient selector module. This allows the requestor or other user such as a police officer to dynamically share the page with additional users such as an emergency medical technician after the page is generated and shared.

In some embodiments the workflow module may create and manage workflows by providing integrated workflow tools. The workflow module may allow users such as service provider operators managers responders and others to view and update the current status of a request.

In some embodiments an operator responder and or others may interface with the workflow tools to update the workflow status manage next steps that should be performed assign assets such as responders to the service request review assigned tasks to be completed and or perform other tasks related to responding to the service request. In the emergency request example an operator of an emergency call center may dispatch responders such as officers fire personnel and or others to respond to the emergency request. The responders may use the workflow tools to input their status such as being on the way a current location an estimated distance from the requestor an estimated time to the requestor an on scene indicator and or other information. The responders may use the workflow tools to request additional responders communicate with the operator dispatcher and or perform other tasks related to responding to the service request.

In some embodiments the page update module may receive updates from various users related to the generated page. Updates may be streamed provided periodically at predetermined intervals and or initiated by a user providing the update.

In some embodiments the page update module may receive an update via the workflow module. For example the operator of a service provider may update the page to indicate that help has been dispatched and is on the way or otherwise communicate information to other users that share the page. In another example a responder of the service provider may update the page to indicate an estimated time of arrival.

The updated page may be propagated to users for which the page has been shared. For example the updated page is propagated to the user making the service request user contacts operators responders and or other users for whom the page has been shared.

In some embodiments the page update module may update the page in various ways. For example media may be added to updated or removed from the page as appropriate. Messages to and from various users who share the page may be updated. A map indicating the location of the user responders route responders are taking will take estimated time distance of arrival of responders hospitals routes to hospitals from the location of the user and or other information relevant to the service request may be updated. In some embodiments the page update module may tag or associated each update with a timestamp so that the service request and associated events may be tracked retrieved and viewed throughout the course of the service request and afterward e.g. for training purposes gathering statistics related to response times etc. .

In some embodiments the voice and text conversion module may perform voice to text and or text to voice processing to facilitate communication between various users. For example the voice and text conversion module may receive text from the user device and may perform text to speech to initiate a live call to an emergency service in addition to or instead of sending a page to the emergency service. In some embodiments the voice and text conversion module may receive audio from the user and perform speech to text in order to transcribe the user s voice into text to be included in the page. Similarly text from a user may be converted to audio or other formats to be included in the page.

Other objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the following drawings and detailed description.

Various systems methods and computer program products for responding to service requests and facilitating communication between relevant parties. In one embodiment the system may be used to receive a request obtain a location of a user making the request identify an operator based on the location facilitate coordination of response efforts and provide a communication platform using a page that is shared between various users.

The page includes an integrated set of content which may include information that describes the type or nature of the request and information that is related to the user. Information related to the user may include information about the user that is pre stored in the system or information currently learned about the user. For example the information related to the user may include a medical history demographic information a current location of the user and or other information related to the user that may be pre stored in the system or learned about the user.

In some embodiments the page may be agnostic to a communication channel that is used to communicate the page to various users. In this manner even if one communication channel such as a data channel is unavailable another communication channel such as a Short Message Service SMS channel may be used to provide the page to a user.

Whichever communication channel is used the system may provide the page to various users including the user making the request and the operator thereby facilitating communication and updates between the various users in real time. Different users may receive the page over different communication channels.

In some embodiments the system may identify various other users with whom the page should be shared. For example the system may identify responders who service the request contacts of the user and or others who may be interested in the request or otherwise may be involved in responding to the request. The users with whom the page is shared may update the page and the updated page may be provided to the various users. In this manner each user with whom the page is shared may provide updates to other users.

Other implementations and uses of the system will be apparent based on the disclosure herein. Having provided a broad overview of a use of the system various system components will now be described.

In some embodiments page server may include one or more computers programmed to execute computer program modules. Through these program modules page server may receive and process a service request. For example page server may include a registration module a page creator module a service selector module a communication channel selector module a page forwarding module a page update module a workflow module a voice and text conversion module and or other modules for performing the functions described herein.

In some embodiments registration module may obtain information about the user that may be useful for first responders or other service personnel responding to the user s request. In some embodiments the user information may include personal information medical information emergency contact information contact share information authentication information and or other types of information known about or received from the user.

Personal information may include a name an address a phone number a date of birth and or other personal or demographic information of the user. Medical information may include a blood type a pre existing medical condition a medical history including family medical histories a medication being taken an allergy and or other information related to the user s medical condition. Emergency contacts may include an emergency contact name not to be confused with for example a 911 operator an emergency contact phone number a physician name insurance name information and or other information that may be useful in an emergency.

Contact share information may identify other users or entities for which a page should be shared. For example the user may specify family members friends colleagues and or users or entities for which a generated page should be communicated. In this manner if the user requests assistance the contacts of the user may be notified of the request via the page. In some embodiments the contact share information may specify roles of the contacts such that different roles receive different types of pages. For example a role may specify that pages related to all types of requests should be communicated to a user assigned with the role and another role may specify that only pages related to particular types of requests should be communicated to a user assigned with the other role.

In some embodiments various functions of the system may require authentication such as entry of a personal identification number PIN or other predefined secret from the user. As such registration module may receive and store the authentication information for later authentication.

In some embodiments registration module may register service providers such as 911 call centers roadside assistance providers and or other providers in order to add providers to the system as appropriate. In this manner different service providers may be added to the system and offered to the user. The collected service provider information may include a location or territory in which a service provider operates e.g. jurisdictions in which emergency call centers such as 911 call centers operate or locations where roadside assistance companies operate type of service provided electronic addresses to which communications should be directed and or other information known about or received from the service provider. In some embodiments each service provider may provide its own Application Programming Interface API not illustrated in that may be used to access its data. In these embodiments the service provider information may include information used to access the API.

In some embodiments the registration process may include installation of one or more computer program modules that configure a device of a registrant to generate an interface for exchanging communications as described herein. Such computer program modules may include mobile applications operating on a mobile device an application executing on a desktop laptop or other device and or other instructions that program a device to display communications or otherwise perform functionality described herein. The registration process may include an initial registration as well as updates to the user information.

In some embodiments page creator module may receive a service request from a user device . The service request may be an emergency request a request for roadside assistance a concierge request and or other types of service requests for which a page may be shared among the requesting user an operator responders and or other users. In order to route the service request to an appropriate service provider the service request may include the type of service request being made such as whether the request is an emergency request .

In some embodiments page creator module may authenticate the user making the request also referred to hereinafter as requestor based on previously supplied user credentials such as a PIN or other secret. For example page creator module may authenticate the user when an emergency request is made to verify that the user e.g. instead of somebody else using the user s device is legitimately making an emergency request.

In some embodiments the service request may include a location of a user device such as user device from which the request is made. For example the user device may obtain its location via GPS or other location technique and supply the location to page server . In other embodiments the service request does not include the location of the user device. For example the user device may be unable to obtain the location or may otherwise not include the location with the service request. In these embodiments page creator module may generate query locator service to determine the location of the user device. Locator service may include a mobile network service carrier that may locate the user device based on the base station with which the user device is connected. In some embodiments locator service may include an internet service provider that may determine a location of the user device based on an Internet protocol address or other identification that allows a location to be determined. In some embodiments page creator module may request the user to input the location via voice text and or other inputs.

In some embodiments page creator module may obtain information about the user information related to the location of the user such as ambient conditions and crime reports related to the location and or other information that may be related to the service request. For example page creator module may query user database to obtain all or a portion of user information that was stored during the registration process. In some instances page creator module may obtain only information that is relevant to the type of service request being made.

In some embodiments page creator module may receive media such as video audio pictures text and or other media content from user device . For example via user device a user having an emergency situation may stream video and or send a video file in association with an emergency request. The video audio pictures etc. may capture the situation in order to document what is happening and help responders understand the situation.

In some embodiments page creator module may retrieve a template that serves as a basis for creating a page. The template may be associated with the type of service being requested. For example an emergency request may be associated with an emergency service template and a roadside assistance request may be associated with a roadside assistance service template. A template may be configured to suit each type of service and may be provided by a service provider. The template may include default information to include or exclude . In some embodiments all templates may have at least some information or elements that are common to each template.

In some embodiments different templates may be created and used for different communication channels. For example a page that is to be shared via a broadband communication channel may be formatted differently than a page that is to be shared via Short Message Service SMS text. For example a page shared over SMS text may include less detail and content than a page shared over a broadband connection. In some of these embodiments page creator module may generate different versions of the page based on the communication channel over which the page is to be communicated.

In some embodiments page creator module may generate a page based on at least some of the obtained user information media files streams templates and or other information known or obtained about the user information related to the surrounding location and or information from other users. In some embodiments the page may include a map overlaid with an indicator that indicates a location of user device . The page may display the type of service request being made an indication of the status of the service request information obtained about the user and or information obtained about the location of the user. A non limiting example of a page generated by page creator module is illustrated in . The created page may be updated when service providers user contacts and or the user provide updates to the page as set forth in more detail below.

In some embodiments page creator module may generate the page in a format such as extensible markup language. In these embodiments the communicated page may include content of the page that can be parsed by recipient devices such as device device operator device and responder device to generate the page according to local device capabilities. For example a particular recipient device may be unable to display video and may ignore any video feed and or may request that page server transmit audio or text versions of the video feed if possible.

In some embodiments recipient selector module may identify service providers users and or other entities that should receive the generated page. For example recipient selector module may determine the type of service being requested and identify an appropriate service provider based on the type of service and or location of the user. In a particular example for a user making an emergency request recipient selector module may determine the location of the user and identify an appropriate 911 call center e.g. a call center that is responsible for 911 calls originating from the location of the user based on the determined location. The 911 call center may be registered with the system such that an operator device may be configured with computer program modules to access and update the generated page. In another example recipient selector module may identify various tow services that may provide service to the user s location. In another example recipient selector module may not use the user s location to identify the service provider. For example when the requested service is to a particular service provider such as a nationwide concierge provider recipient selector module may not use the user s location to identify the service provider.

In some embodiments recipient selector module may identify contacts such as emergency contacts user specified contacts and or other users who should receive the generated page. In some embodiments contacts may be identified based on context. For example the generated page may not be shared with an emergency contact such as a physician or a contact such as a parent for a roadside assistance request. On the other hand the generated page may be shared with a contact such as a friend for the roadside assistance request. Thus using various logic or rules which may include specifications by the user during registration recipient selector module may identify various contacts with whom a page should be shared.

In some embodiments communication channel selector module may determine which communication channel to use in order to share the generated page. Communication channels may include various mobile telecommunications networks such as without limitation fourth generation telecommunication network 4G third generation telecommunication network 3G the Internet Public Switched Telephone Networks Short Message Service messaging over mobile communications networks peer to peer networks ad hoc networks and or other technologies that allow data or voice communication.

In some embodiments the communication channel may be selected based on current availability and or configurable rules that define which communication channel to use. In some embodiments certain communication channels may be preferred over others. For example communication channel selector module may preferentially use a broadband communication channel such as fourth generation telecommunication network 4G if available. If 4G is unavailable communication channel selector module may use a third generation telecommunication network 3G . If neither is available communication channel selector module may share the generated page using Short Message Service SMS text format PIN to PIN messaging and or other communication channel that may be available to share pages to intended recipients.

In some embodiments communication channel selector module may determine whether a communication channel is available by sending a communication over the channel and waiting for a response. If a send failure message is received or if no response is received within a timeout period communication channel selector module may determine that the communication channel is unavailable. In this manner even when certain communication channels are down due to congestion or other reason pages may be shared among intended recipients including the original requestor so long as a viable communication channel is available. Communication channel selector module may share the page over the communication channel s that are available and use the appropriate version created by page creator module for the communication channel. In some embodiments a particular service provider may provide services to remote locations that may not have available traditional communication services. In these embodiments a rule for the service provider may specify that satellite communications or other communication channel that does not require traditional terrestrial based communication infrastructure should be used.

In some embodiments if the service request is an emergency request and a required PIN input is incorrect after a predetermined number of times including one then communication channel selector module may connect the user device with an emergency service operator via voice line instead of sending a page. In this manner if the user of user device is experiencing an emergency but could not enter the correct PIN due to duress for example the system may still connect the user with an emergency service operator without generating and or sharing a page with the emergency service operator.

In some embodiments page sharing module may share the page to recipients identified by recipient selector module . In some embodiments page sharing module may share the page via one or more communication channels selected by communication selector module .

In some embodiments page sharing module may allow the requestor using user device to share the page with other users not identified by recipient selector module . This allows the requestor to dynamically share the page with additional users after the page is generated and shared.

In some embodiments page sharing module may allow a user other than the requestor to share the page with another user not identified by recipient selector module . This may allow users with whom the page has been shared to share the page with another user. For example an operator using operator device of service provider may share the page with a responder using responder device . In a particular example an emergency service operator may share the page with an emergency responder such as police fire rescue etc. In this manner the responder may be given background and real time situational awareness related to the emergency request which may include the location of the user making the emergency request media from the user making the request and or other content of the page. In another particular example one responder may share the page with another responder. For example police responding on scene may request an ambulance and share the page with a nearby ambulance. A responding ambulance may share the page with a local emergency room and so forth. In this manner entities who may be involved in or related to the service request whether an emergency request a roadside assistance request a concierge request etc. may share the page with one another. The user or entity receiving the shared page may be apprised of the current situation as well as previous and future updates to the page.

In some embodiments page sharing module may use configurable roles to implement who may share the page with other users. In some embodiments all or only a portion of users may be associated with a role that allows them to share a page. For example only registered users who are responders or operators may be associated with a role that authorizes them to share the page with other users. In some embodiments a user may specify who may share pages created for the user during the registration process.

In some embodiments the recipients with whom the page has been shared may be registered users themselves operating a device that is configured with computer program modules . In other embodiments a recipient may not be registered with the system but may still receive the page via for example a webpage secured by a secret such as a password a uniform resource locator that is not publicly known and or other technique in which to share a secure webpage or other interface.

In some embodiments workflow module may create and manage workflows by providing integrated workflow tools. Workflow module may allow users such as service provider operators managers responders and others to view and update the current status of a request. For example and without limitation a workflow status may include case open dispatched on scene and closed to indicate the general status of a service request.

In some embodiments workflow module may provide various workflow tools. An operator responder and or others may interface with the workflow tools to update the workflow status manage next steps that should be performed assign assets such as responders to the service request review assigned tasks to be completed and or perform other tasks related to responding to the service request. In the emergency request example an operator of an emergency call center may dispatch responders such as officers fire personnel and or others to respond to the emergency request. The responders may use the workflow tools to input their status such as being on the way a current location an estimated distance from the requestor an estimated time to the requestor an on scene indicator and or other information. The responders may use the workflow tools to request additional responders communicate with the operator dispatcher and or perform other tasks related to responding to the service request.

In some embodiments workflow module may create educated scenario predictions to help minimize or prevent disasters. An educated scenario prediction may employ machine learning instructions based on analyzing previous request data related to previous requests with incoming request data related to a current request in order to predict an appropriate response to the current request. The request data may include information that describes the situation related to the request. For example the request data may include sensor data such as sensor information indicating that an automobile airbag has deployed audio data such as a recording of an emergency call image data such as an image of an accident location data such as a location of an accident and or other information that describes a situation that culminated in service request.

For example the machine learning instructions may correlate sensor information indicating that an airbag has deployed at a particular location with severe accidents that require deployment of police and emergency medical assets. In this manner when incoming sensor information related to a current request indicates that an airbag has deployed and incoming location information indicates that the airbag was deployed at the particular location the educated scenario prediction may include a prediction that police and emergency medical assets should be deployed. Based on the prediction the police and emergency medical assets may be deployed. In some embodiments such deployments may be made automatically based on the educated scenario prediction without intervention by a user such as an operator or the user making the request. In some embodiments such deployments may be recommended to an operator who orders the deployments.

In another example the machine learning instructions may correlate an automobile description e.g. year make model etc. with a particular towing requirement such that appropriate tow trucks are deployed for the particular automobile in the context of towing service requests. Automatically ordering and or recommending outcomes based on educated scenario predictions may be used in other contexts and examples as well.

In some embodiments page update module may receive updates related to the generated page. Updates may be streamed provided periodically at predetermined intervals and or initiated by a user providing the update.

In some embodiments page update module may receive an update from the requestor. The update from the requestor may include a location update e.g. whether the requestor has moved or remains stationary media updates e.g. new video audio image text etc. information updates e.g. I m OK now and or other information that is related to the page.

In some embodiments page update module may receive an update via workflow module . For example the operator of service provider may update the page to indicate that help has been dispatched and is on the way or otherwise communicate information to other users that share the page. In another example a responder of service provider may update the page to indicate an estimated time of arrival.

The updated page may be propagated to users for which the page has been shared. For example the updated page is propagated to the user making the service request user contacts operators responders and or other users for whom the page has been shared. In some embodiments the updates to the page may be made as they are received. In this manner page update module may facilitate communication between users with whom the page has been shared. In some embodiments page update module may send out a communication independent from the page e.g. via an email to a contact s email address indicating the updates.

In some embodiments page update module may update the page in various ways. For example media may be added to updated or removed from the page as appropriate. Messages to and from various users who share the page may be updated. A map indicating the location of the user responders route responders are taking will take estimated time distance of arrival of responders hospitals routes to hospitals from the location of the user and or other information relevant to the service request may be updated. In some embodiments page update module may tag or associate each update with a timestamp so that the service request and associated events may be tracked retrieved and viewed throughout the course of the service request and afterward e.g. for training purposes gathering statistics related to response times etc. .

In some embodiments voice and text conversion module may perform voice to text and or text to voice processing to facilitate communication between various users. For example voice and text conversion module may receive text from user device and may perform text to speech to initiate a live call to an emergency service in addition to or instead of sending a page to the emergency service. In some embodiments voice and text conversion module may receive audio from the user and perform speech to text in order to transcribe the audio e.g. user s voice into text to be included in the page. Similarly text from a user may be converted to audio or other formats to be included in the page.

Although particular examples such as an emergency request or roadside assistance request have been described with respect to the use of page server the examples should not be viewed as limiting and were merely for convenience and understanding. Various other implementations and uses of system are contemplated.

For example in some embodiments page server may be used for crisis management. In these embodiments a field agent on scene at a crisis situation may generate a request via user device . Operator in this example may include a command center set up by a crisis or relief management organization and responder device may include other responders or assets for that may be responsible for responding to the crisis.

In some embodiments page server may be used for company management and planning. In these embodiments an employee of the company may generate a request via user device . Operator device in this example may be used by a group manager and responder devices may be used by other employees to complete a task.

Other uses and implementations of page server will be apparent to those having skill in the art based on the disclosure herein. Having provided an overview of implementations and components of page server various other components of system will now be described.

In some embodiments page server may include or otherwise access various databases to store and or retrieve information. The various databases may include for example a user database a template database a page database a services database and or other databases. User database may store information known or obtained about a user such as user information received during the registration process. Template database may store templates used to create a page. Page database may store information related to a page. For example when page creator module generates a page a page identifier that identifies the page may be generated and stored in page database . The page identifier may be associated in page database with various content and updates to the page such as for example an identity of the requestor a location of the requestor or other users status updates workflow updates media content and or other information related to the generated page.

In some embodiments page database stores a record of users e.g. operators contacts responders etc. with whom the page has been shared. In this manner page database allows retrieval of content related to a generated page as well as an identification of users who had access to the page. At least some records stored by page database may be time stamped such that page content may be generated in real time and or a historical timeline of events related to the page may be generated. Services database may store information about service providers. For example emergency service providers and their respective service locations may be stored in services database so that appropriate emergency service call centers or operators may be identified. In some embodiments service database may store any API interface calls that a service provider may use to access its systems.

In some embodiments user device contact device operator device and responder device may each be or may include a mobile device one or more computing devices e.g. specialty computing systems desktop computers personal computers mobile computing devices tablet computing devices smart phones or other computing devices having one or more processors e.g. microprocessors memory devices e.g. hard disk RAM EEPROM etc. input output components and or other computing components for performing the features and functions described herein and or other features and functions . Each of the foregoing devices may have one or more user interfaces such as a keypad a display a voice recognition microphone and speaker to interact with a distressed user. In some embodiments each of the foregoing devices comprises a processor coupled to a memory over a bus to carry out the features and functionalities of the embodiments described herein. In some embodiments each of the foregoing devices comprises one or more computer program modules residing in the memory thereof and generating a display that is displayed to the user via the display. Each of the foregoing devices may have an antenna to wirelessly communicate with other components of system over network or independent of network .

In some embodiments user device contact device operator device and responder device may each include a Global Positioning System GPS unit to determine its location allowing each device to transmit its location to other components in system . Alternatively or additionally each of the foregoing devices may be Global System for Mobile Communications GSM enabled to convey its location. Other techniques for locating these devices may be used such as multilateration and input by an operator of each device.

In some embodiments user device contact device operator device and responder device may each be programmed with one or more computer program modules used interchangeably with application or user application to display pages update pages communicate with page server and other users and or perform other functions related to a page as described herein.

In some embodiments user application may provide a programmed device with general functionality that may be common to all of the programmed devices. For example user application may provide an audio and or visual interface to communicate with other components of system via one or more input components e.g. hard or soft buttons tabs voice recognition inputs etc. . The one or more input components may be responsive to touch voice or other forms of user inputs. In some embodiments user application may display or otherwise provide control of one or more of the generated pages. For example in some embodiments user application may display a map with various location based identifiers and indicators that show the location of various entities and assets such as responders as discussed herein.

In some embodiments user application may provide functions that are specific to the context in which they are used. For example a responder device may include functionality that a contact device may not have and vice versa. It should be noted that user application may provide the same functionality to a contact device and user device . For example a user of contact device may be registered to send out a service request and a user of user device may be a contact of the user of contact device .

In some embodiments user application may program user device to include an interface for generating a service request or alert message. User device may display a user interface that includes a plurality of input components such as icons or buttons that may be selected by the user to initiate a service request or alert message corresponding to the input component. For example an input component may correspond to a type of service request. In some embodiments a user may configure e.g. during registration which services the user wishes to display on the interface. For instance a user may be subscribed to some services but not others. In some embodiments an emergency service is included in each user application operating on user device irrespective of user configurations.

In some embodiments one or more input components may be color coded or otherwise displayed differently from other input components to indicate various levels of urgency or various types of situations.

In some embodiments upon receiving a service request or other alert message user device may be programmed by user application to obtain a location of user device via GPS multilateration prompting the user to input a location such as an address and or other technique. In some embodiments user device may be programmed by user application to preferentially use some location techniques over others such as preferring more accurate techniques over less accurate techniques.

In some embodiments user device may be programmed by user application to prompt for a PIN or other secret to process the service request or alert message. For example upon receiving a selection of an input component corresponding to an emergency service request user device may be programmed to prompt for a PIN in order to verify that the user is legitimately requesting an emergency service. PIN validation may occur at the user device and or at page server . If the PIN is incorrect a predefined number of times including one user device may be programmed to directly dial 911 or equivalent in jurisdictions outside North America . In some embodiments service provider illustrated in as service providers A B . . . N may include various entities such as an emergency service call center and corresponding response units a roadside assistance provider a crisis management center such as national or local emergency management agencies a concierge service a private corporation s management system an emergency alert system such as an AMBER alert or security threat level alert system and or other entity that may manage requests or dispatch alerts via shared pages described herein.

In some embodiments service provider may include an operator device and responder devices . Component details of service providers B and N are omitted in for convenience but each may be configured in a manner similar to service provider A.

In some implementations operator device may be operated by a live operator to assist the user of user device . In some embodiments operator device may be provided with one or more pages generated by page server . Accordingly operator device may include a version of user application that enables display of and or other instructions with one or more of the generated pages. In some embodiments operator device may be located at a geographical location that is closest to user device as compared to other operator devices. Operator device may comprise a computer terminal used by a live operator that can connect to user device via network or independently. Operator device may include audio video or audio and video based communication interfaces e.g. microphone camera etc. to communicate with a user associated with user device and or other devices.

In some embodiments operator device may be programmed by user application to generate a workflow interface that provides an interface to functions provided by workflow module . For example an operator may receive a service request and view the generated page associated with the service request. The operator may assign the service request to one or more responders who may be able to assist the user making the request. The one or more responders may access the page associated with the request via responder device . A responder may include for example a police officer fire personnel a hospital a tow truck a hospital and or other user or entity that may respond to the service request.

In some embodiments responder device may be programmed by user application to accept assignments that are given to a corresponding responder view pages associated with the service request view service requests in the queue for which a responder may provide services volunteer to accept service requests and or otherwise interact with a page generated in association with a service request. Responder device may further be programmed to facilitate communication with the requestor the operator and or other users via the generated page and or via communication links unrelated to the generated page. In some embodiments responder device may be programmed to request backup or different types of responders. In these embodiments responder device may cause the page to be shared with other responders and or other service providers .

In some embodiments contact devices may be or include the devices used by contacts of the user of user device e.g. friends family co workers strangers etc. . In some embodiments contact device may be programmed by user application to allow users to provide updates in a manner that is similar to user device and or responder device . For example a user of contact device may supplement any known information about the requestor with additional information such as a newly acquired medical condition or other information that may not otherwise be known to the system. In some embodiments contact device may indicate that it too is on the scene or nearby user device . For example a user of contact device may take videos pictures descriptions etc. while on scene to supplement content provided by or add content on behalf of user device . A user of contact device may also communicate with the requestor via the generated page provide a location of contact device which may be indicated on a map displayed by the page indicated by text displayed by the page etc. and or update the page.

In some embodiments network may be or include a communications network capable of supporting one or more modes of communications including but not limited to wireless wired and optical communications. For example network may comprise cell phone towers or other wireless communication infrastructure public switched telephone networks PSTN active and passive optical networks and combinations thereof. Examples of such networks may include computer implemented networks such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN etc.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that user device contact device operator device and responder device may each comprise one or more processors one or more interfaces to various peripheral devices or components memory one or more storage devices and or other components coupled via a bus. The memory may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other memory. The memory may store computer executable instructions to be executed by the processor as well as data that may be manipulated by the processor. The storage devices may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage devices for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

The databases described herein may be include or interface to for example an Oracle relational database sold commercially by Oracle Corporation. Other databases such as Informix DB2 Database 2 or other data storage including file based or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Standard Query Language a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access or others may also be used incorporated or accessed. The database may comprise one or more such databases that reside in one or more physical devices and in one or more physical locations. The database may store a plurality of types of data and or files and associated data or file descriptions administrative information or any other data.

The foregoing description of the various components comprising system is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting. The invention described herein may work with various system configurations. Accordingly more or less of the aforementioned system components may be used and or combined in various implementations.

In an operation process may include receiving a request for service. In an operation process may include determining whether the request includes a location of the user. If the request does not include a location of the user process may include obtaining the location of the user in an operation . For example the request may include an identifier such as a mobile phone number associated with a mobile device from which the user made the request. Process may request from a location database which may be maintained by one or more mobile communication service providers a current location of the mobile device. The location database may determine an estimated location based on cell towers in communication with the mobile device. Processing may proceed to an operation when the location has been obtained.

In some embodiments the request may include the location. For example the mobile device may obtain the location via GPS or other location determining technique and include the location along with the request. Returning to operation if the request includes the location of the user processing may proceed to operation .

In operation process may include obtaining information related to the user. The information may include for example a medical history demographic information and or other information related to the user. The information may be pre stored and or may be learned from the user via the request e.g. the user may enter relevant information as part of the request .

In an operation process may include generating a page based on the location and information related to the user. In an operation process may include identifying an operator that can handle the request based on the location and or the type of request. For example the operator may be identified based on whether the request is a 911 emergency request or a roadside assistance request. The operator may be further identified based on the current location of the user. For example the appropriate 911 operator or an appropriate towing service provider may be identified based on the user s current location.

In an operation process may include identifying additional users who should receive the page. For example a user may have previously or currently specified that a family member or friend should have access to and be provided with the page. In another example an operator or responder may share the page with another responder.

In an operation process may include providing the page to the various users. In an operation process may include receiving input from the user making the request the operator the responder the contact and or other user. The input may include audio video pictures text and or other types of input. In an operation process may include updating the page based on the received input. In an operation process may include providing the updated page to the various users.

In an operation process may include determining whether the request has been serviced. For example process may receive an indication that a 911 requestor is safely delivered to a hospital the user s car has been towed and or other event that otherwise indicates that the request has been serviced.

If the request has been serviced process may include closing the page or otherwise providing an indication on the page that the request has been serviced in an operation . Returning to operation if the request has not been serviced process may include returning to operation where further input from the various users may be received.

In some embodiments the interfaces and or various components thereof illustrated in may be communicated from page server to various executing devices that display the interfaces. The various executing devices may include for example user device contact device operator device responder device and or other device that is communicably coupled to page server and able to display the interfaces and or components. The interfaces and or components may be communicated via a webpage executed by a browser interfaces instructions executed by a mobile application and or other program such as user application that can read and execute instructions for generating the interfaces components.

In some embodiments the various interface components illustrated in the Figures may cause the executing device to perform corresponding functions described herein and or may cause the executing device to request from page server and or other computing device remote from the executing device to perform the corresponding functions described herein.

In some embodiments the various interface components illustrated in the Figures may be context specific. For example different functions may be imparted to a component based on whether the component is displayed by a device that is a user device a contact device an operator device a responder device or other type of device. For example the asset component may reveal all assets at the disposal of an operator when selected via an operator device while the same component may display only assets assigned to a request when selected at a user device as will be described in more detail below.

Referring to in some embodiments search component may be configured to receive one or more search terms. Upon input of the search terms search component may cause the executing device to execute a search query using a search engine and or using page server . For example search component may be configured to receive a search term hospital and a resulting list of hospitals nearby the requestor or other location may be displayed.

In some embodiments a toolbar may include various tools to view various aspects of a request. For example toolbar may include a page component a people component an assets component a places component a tools component and or other components.

In some embodiments page component when selected may cause the executing device to display one or more pages to which the user operating the executing device has access. A user making the request for example may view a listing of current or past requests made by the user. An operator may view pages for which the operator is assigned requests. A responder may view pages for which the responder is tasked to respond to the request or event. A user contact may view pages for that a requesting user has shared with the user contact. If only one page has been shared with the user selection of the page component may cause the executing device to display the page instead of a listing .

In some embodiments people component when selected may cause the executing device to display people associated with a page. For example when selected while a page is being viewed people component may cause the executing device to display a listing of the requesting user an operator a responder a user contact and or other people related to the page. Upon selection of a particular person additional details about that person may be made available. For example upon selection of the user making the request the medical history and or other information known or obtained about the user may be displayed.

In some embodiments assets component when selected may cause the executing device to display assets related to a page. For example assets may include various responders such as an ambulance a police car a tow truck a food emergency supply vehicle and or other responders who are tasked with servicing the request. In some embodiments the assets component may be context specific. For example an operator device listing assets based on selection of the assets component may include all assets at the operator s disposal while a user device may have access to only assets related to the page that was created to service the requesting user s request.

In some embodiments places component when selected may cause the executing device to display places related to a page. For example when selected places may cause a hospital emergency shelter and or other places relevant to a page to be displayed.

In some embodiments tools component when selected may cause the executing device to display various tools such as a user information manager to be displayed. For example using tools component a user may set or update various user information such as display preferences user authentication information medical history information and or other information that is specific to a user.

In some embodiments a page management component may include various components for managing a page. For example page management component may include a locate component a connect component a manage component and or other components.

In some embodiments locate component when selected may cause the executing device to initiate a locate function. The locate function may request a location of various people assets places and or other items that may be located. For example an operator may request to locate a particular responder. The request may be made to page server and or directly to the responder. In some embodiments locate component may be used by the operator to request a location of a user making the request. For example if the request does not include a location locate component may be used to make a request to locator service to locate the user e.g. locate user device making the request and or other user or asset. Other users may similarly request a location of various users assets as well.

In some embodiments connect component when selected may cause the executing device to initiate a connection with various users or assets. For example a user making the request may wish to connect with a responder. Selection of connect component may cause a direct connection to be established between the user and the responder. Other users may similarly request a communication with various users assets as well.

In some embodiments manage component when executed may be used to manage various people assets places etc. For example when selected on an operator device manage component may cause the executing device to display requests from requesting users in order to dispatch responders. When selected on a responder device manage component may cause the executing device to display requests that have been assigned to the responder or otherwise display requests for which the responder may volunteer to service. When selected on a user device manage component may cause the executing device to display users with whom the page should be shared. Other users may similarly manage their respective aspects of a page using manage component .

In some embodiments communication management component may include various components for managing communications related to a page. For example communication management component may include a hangup component a video component a picture component an audio component a text component and or other components.

In some embodiments hangup component when selected may discontinue a communication between the executing device and a device remote from the executing device. For example if a requesting user established a communication with a contact using connect component the requesting user or the contact may terminate the established communication via the hangup component. In some embodiments hangup component may terminate the page. For example the user making the request may terminate the page thereby indicating that the service requested is no longer needed was in error or otherwise should be closed.

In some embodiments video component when selected may cause the executing device to initiate a video capture device to begin recording and or streaming video. For example the user making the request may begin to stream and or record and send video that will be included on the page. In this manner the user making the request and or other user may update the page with video captured via the executing device.

In some embodiments picture component when selected may cause the executing device to initiate a photo capture device which may include the same or different device than the video capture device to take a picture. The executing device may communicate the picture to be included in the page.

In some embodiments audio component when selected may cause the executing device to initiate a microphone or other audio recording device to record or stream audio. The executing device may communicate the picture to be included in the page.

In some embodiments text component when selected may cause the executing device to display a keypad or keyboard for inputting alphanumeric or other characters to be included in the page.

Thus using various input components communications management component may allow a user to record stream or otherwise communicate various forms of media to page server or other remote device for updating the page. The communicated media may be included as part of the page so that other users are able to access the media in an integrated display with other content related to the page.

Various users may each use the search component toolbar page management component and communication management in order to view update and or otherwise interface with the page in order to communicate with other users and obtain information related to the user making the request.

In some embodiments a request component C may include an I m OK or other indication that communicates that the user making the request is fine and or that an open page should be closed. Other types of request components may be added as well. In some embodiments a user of user device may sign up for various different types of services administered by page server .

In some embodiments upon receiving a selection of a request component user device may be programmed to generate a request to page server . The request may include the type of request being made. In some embodiments user device may be programmed to determine a location of user device and include the location within the request. Upon receipt of the request by page server the page server may then generate a page and route the page to an appropriate operator based on the type of request and or the location as described herein.

In some embodiments request components illustrated in as request A B . . . N may display for example a date time of receipt of a request and details concerning the request. For example each request component may display a type of request a location of the user e.g. location of a user device used to make the request and or other information related to the incoming request.

In some embodiments the request component is selectable so that the operator may open a page that was generated by page server based on the request. Using the page an operator may use various tools with respect to toolbar to dispatch assign various assets to service the request.

In some embodiments map display may display a map which may be displayed coincident with graphical objects e.g. graphical objects may be embedded overlaid etc. onto the map or the map may be overlaid onto the graphical objects .

In some embodiments user location indicator may indicate a location of the user making the request. In some embodiments the user location indicator may be selected to reveal information related to the user such as a geographic coordinate or other location indication medical information and or other information known or obtained about a user.

In some embodiments people assets places location indicators may indicate a location of various people such as user contacts assets such as responders and places such as hospitals. For mobile ones of the foregoing the location indicators may be updated in real time or based on a predefined interval. In this manner each user or entity with whom the page has been shared may view a location of relevant people assets places. For example the user making the request may be updated with a location of a responder or a contact who may be on the way. An operator may obtain a full understanding of the situation and location of assets.

In some embodiments people assets places location indicators may be selectable such that when selected page interface may display information known or obtained about the corresponding person asset or location. For example selection of an asset location indicator cause to be displayed a description of the type of asset e.g. police fire rescue tow truck etc. an estimated time of arrival a distance away a name of a responder and or other information known or obtained about the asset.

In some embodiments a people assets places location indicator may display an icon photo or other indication that indicates whether the indicator corresponds to a person an asset or a place.

In some embodiments user location indicator and or people assets places location indicator need not be selected to reveal the information known or obtained about the user person asset or place. For example space and format permitting user location indicator and or people assets places location indicator may display any or all of the known or obtained information.

In some embodiments information component may be selected to obtain information related to the page. For example information component may display page details such as information known or obtained about the user assets places and or other users or entities related to the page.

Referring to in some embodiments workflow status monitor may display a status of the response to a request. For example workflow status monitor may include various statuses illustrated in as status A B C . . . N . Status A may indicate that the page has been opened. Status B may indicate that responders have been dispatched. Status C may indicate that responders are on scene. Other statuses may indicate various states of the page such as a closed state e.g. serviced terminated by the requestor etc. . As illustrated workflow status monitor indicates that status B is achieved. The various statuses may be pre defined or may be dynamically added by a user such as an operator. In some embodiments the various statuses may be configured based on the type of request e.g. an emergency request may have different status states than a roadside assistance request .

In some embodiments media component may display various media related to the page. Although only one media component is illustrated in page interface may include more than one media component which may each display different content.

Referring to media component may include content and content control . Content may include video photo audio text and or other media provided by the user making the request a user contact a responder an operator a place and or other user or entity with whom the page has been shared. In some embodiments the displayed media may include news clips and or other content related to the location or other information gathered from sources other than the users with whom the page has been shared. In this manner disaster relief efforts for example may integrate news and or other content related to an area related to the page. Content control may include various controls illustrated in as controls A B . . . N .

Because each user with whom the page has been shared may view information location of users entities places media content and other information included with a page all parties involved in the page may be apprised of the current situation related to the request that culminated in creation of the page. The operator responder may obtain a fuller understanding of the needs and situation of a user making the request.

The various user interface components described herein may include hard e.g mechanical or soft e.g. touch screen or touch pad buttons text inputs icons selection lists and or other user interface objects that may be used to receive an input and or provide an output. As used herein the term selection select selected selecting etc. with respect to user interface components may include for example pressing a hard or soft button clicking highlighting hovering over or otherwise indicating an interest in executing one or more functions related to the selected user interface component.

In the Figures like numerals represent equivalent elements or features. Other embodiments uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

