---

title: Word guessing games for market research
abstract: A system is described for a computer-based word-guessing game that can be used to elicit market-research data, specifically sentiment and awareness data. The two-person game involves a clue giver and a guesser, each playing on their own mobile device. The clue giver sends clues to induce the guesser to guess a given target word or phrase before a countdown clock runs out. The clues used and the guesses made can be analyzed to reveal the opinions and knowledge that the players have about products, brands, and people. The game features a novel mechanic in which the clue words are categorized according to how obvious they are. Using more-obvious clues causes the countdown clock to decrement faster, thereby making the game play more strategic and entertaining, while also incentivizing the clue giver to use less-obvious, sentiment-oriented words that are more useful for market-research purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480908&OS=09480908&RS=09480908
owner: UPFRONT ANALYTICS INC.
number: 09480908
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20131101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 722 882 filed Nov. 6 2012 entitled Word Guessing Games for Market Research which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

There is a general need in commerce for companies and individuals to acquire business intelligence related to their products brands and markets. For decades this has been done via the primary market research methodologies of surveys focus groups and diary studies. However these methods all suffer from similar shortcomings very small sample sizes unrepresentative sampling an emphasis on stated opinion versus revealed opinion and high cost as skilled individuals are needed to design and implement market research studies.

Analysis of blog postings and tweets has emerged recently as a new way of tracking sentiment and awareness on all kinds of topics. Although techniques such as Twitter mining purport to capture opinions on a scale that is vastly greater than that possible with standard survey methods they are problematic for several reasons such as the opinions often come from a vocal minority and can be skewed to extremes and even with the best algorithms it is difficult to classify accurately the topic and polarity of free form text fragments.

Recently some companies have developed games that serve to elicit market research or business intelligence data from players. For example guessing games are one type of game that may be used to collect business intelligence. A word guessing game is a game in which the objective is to guess a target word or phrase that describes an object a person or a concept. Typically these games are played co operatively by two or more players one player the clue giver knows the target word phrase but cannot tell the other s the guesser s explicitly what it is. However the clue giver can help the guessers arrive at the target word phrase with the help of clues. A classic example of such a guessing game is charades where a person who knows the topic or item such as a famous person gives indirect clues to others until someone or no one can guess the topic or item.

KNOWSY is an example of a game that was designed specifically to elicit market research or business intelligence data from players. One player ranks a list of favorite items around a theme such as award nominated movies New Year s resolutions or favorite sports teams. His partner tries to guess the order correctly. The rankings chosen by both players can be used to gauge the players sentiment awareness and preferences of products brands and people.

Another example of a game designed to elicit market research data is HowMutch . It is a single person game that poses a simple question How much would you pay for X X can be anything a product a dare or an activity. For example How much would someone have to pay you to lick the sole of your shoe or How much would you pay for an unlimited smartphone data plan Once the player enters an amount it is matched with other responses to the same question and a comparison of the player s price versus the median price is shown.

Board games can be a source of inspiration for guessing games that can elicit market research or business intelligence data. The board game TABOO from Hasbro Inc. is one such game. The objective of the game is for the clue giver to have the guessers guess a given target word on a card without using the word itself or five additional words listed on the card. For example the clue giver might have to get the guessers to say the word baseball without using the words sport game pastime hitter pitcher or baseball itself as clues. The clue giver may not say a part of a taboo word for example using base in baseball is taboo. The clue giver s hints may not rhyme with a taboo word or be an abbreviation of a taboo word.

Train of Thought from Tasty Minstrel Games is another board game whose mechanic is potentially useful for eliciting market research data. In this game the clue giver tries to get guessers to guess a given target word on a card by giving a three word clue one word of which is mandated and that cannot include the target word. In the first round the mandated word is specified on the card. If none of the current round of guesses is correct the clue giver creates another three word clue using one of the guessed words from the previous round and two other words. For example the clue giver might have to get the guessers to say the word cow by offering a three word clue that includes the word eats. So the clue giver might say what eats grass. If any of the guessers say cow then that person wins the game. If instead the guesses are sheep horse and lawnmower then the clue giver must use one of these words in a second three word clue and so on until someone guesses the target word phrase correctly.

Brown and Marks devised a Web based market research game called Cascadence that was based on classic word guessing games like Taboo and Train of Thought . As in those games the clue giver sends clues to induce the guesser to guess a given target word or phrase. In Cascadence the clue giver is presented with a continuous stream of clue words in a Web browser on a computer display with new words appearing at the top of the screen and old words scrolling off the bottom of the screen. The clue giver can choose which words from the visible part of the stream to send to the guesser to elicit a correct guess. The clue giver can also remove or reorder the words sent to the guesser to communicate further hints about the target word or phrase. The clue words chosen and their de selection and re ordering can be interpreted to generate market research data. However as in the above conventional board games there is no incentive for the clue giver to use words that are more revealing of sentiment or knowledge than other words. Moreover because the number of words visible at any point in the game play is restricted it is difficult for the clue giver to compare different words for their revelatory power before sending them as clues. Finally the implementation of the game on a Web browser limits the ability to play the game as users needed to have access to a suitable network connection computer and display.

There is therefore a need for a new guessing game on a new platform to collect primary market research data from consumers that is more revelatory of players opinions and knowledge and that is more accessible and engaging.

Embodiments include a word guessing game that both entertains and elicits market research or business intelligence data. It is designed as a two person game that involves a clue giver and a guesser but team play is contemplated. The clue giver sends clues to induce the guesser to guess a given target word or phrase before a countdown clock runs out. The clues used must all come from one of several clue word lists associated with the given target word phrase.

The clue giver can view the lists in their entirety at any time during the game. The clue lists are classified according to how obvious the clues are. Measures of obviousness include the standard information retrieval measure of usage frequency in spoken or written language or the frequency of clue selection within the game. As clues are selected by the clue giver the cost incurred for giving each clue is recorded in the system and may affect game play. For example in one embodiment using more obvious clues causes the countdown clock to decrement faster. The clue giver must therefore decide what mix of obvious and non obvious clues to use so as to minimize the time lost on the countdown clock before the guesser identifies the target word thereby making the game play more strategic and more entertaining than traditional games some of which are described herein. This mechanic also incentivizes the clue giver to use less obvious sentiment oriented words that are more useful for market research purposes.

High quality games are inherently engaging over long periods of time as dedicated players play their favorite games again and again. Mobile games are played by all demographics. And game play may tap into instinctual revealed preferences that are less susceptible than survey data to contextual issues and demand characteristics Why am I being asked this What do they want me to say How do I finish this task as quickly as possible . So by structuring games appropriately for market research purposes ambiguity and uncertainty in topic and polarity classification can be avoided by tapping into the broad demographics that play casual mobile games representative sampling can be performed and by weaving data collection into engaging game play revealed sentiment can be measured while avoiding the extremes that occur in unprompted expression. For these and other reasons data mining of specialized mobile games is an exciting new approach to gathering market research.

To this end the inventors have invented Name Game a word guessing game played on mobile devices like smartphones tablets etc. In one embodiment the game is played by two people but in other embodiments three or more can play. In the two player embodiment shown in the system comprises mobile client devices that are connected via a communications network to a game server running on a cloud computer . A game consists of multiple rounds of play. When a player activates the Name Game app on their mobile device the menu screen in is presented to them. From this screen they can choose via a screen button to play the game. At this point the player is informed via the screen in that the game server is looking for another player who is also waiting to play the game. The game server considers the data in the player database shown in when potentially pairing two players. The data in the database consists of player IDs demographic data and data about the players playing skill and interests . The pairing algorithm is shown in . The players waiting to play are stored in the game room . In step the player who has been waiting the longest is picked as player P1. Step checks if there is a candidate player P2 who is also in the game room and who has not yet been considered for pairing with player P1. If all the players have been considered and none is an ideal match then P2 is picked randomly and players P1 and P2 are paired . If a candidate partner P2 is identified at step then that player is tested for demographic compatibility with player P1 . For example two players would be considered as demographically compatible if they had similar values for their demographic attributes in the player database. If a candidate partner P2 is still in consideration after step then that player is tested for skill and interest compatibility with player P1 . For example two players would be considered as being compatible if they had similar values for their skill and interest attributes in the player database. If a candidate partner P2 passes both steps and then players P1 and P2 are paired . When player pairing happens at step the players are informed via the screen display in that they have a playing partner and the game is about to commence. The skill interests and past achievements in the game of the other player are depicted by the badge images so that each player has some knowledge about the skill and interests of the player with whom he is paired.

During each round of play in which one name or word is guessed one player is the clue giver and the other is the guesser. The clue giver is presented with a target word or phrase and must send clues to the guesser that induce him to guess the given target word phrase as quickly as possible. In the clue giver s screen is showing that the target word is Brand R which is worth 150 points to each player if the word is correctly guessed by the guesser. If the target word is too difficult the clue giver can opt to skip it by pressing the skip button . However skipping a target word reduces the maximum score achievable in a game.

In one embodiment the target word or phrase may be configured using objects or symbols images of objects virtual objects images generated procedurally and the like. For example the word tree may be illustrated using an image which may be made using virtually any image generation method such as a picture drawing painting lines dots and the like.

The object may also be represented by a negative or absence thereof or a collection of images to form the object. For example a tree outlined by a background or tree illustrated by a bunch of leaves that are not interconnected or a collage of other images formed to be a tree image.

In another embodiment the objects may be symbolic or added to create meaning. For example a banana milk shake where a banana is shown then the sign then a milk container then a sign then a shaking object with an sign at the end to convey the sum of the image meanings is a banana milk shake .

In one embodiment Name Game all the clues sent to the guesser by the clue giver are derived from one of three lists an obvious list where the clues are most helpful to the guesser shown in a mid level list with clues that are less obvious shown in and a sentiment list containing only generic sentiment words shown in . Included in all of these word lists are distractor words to force people to concentrate and think carefully about the words they select as clues. Words are chosen by selecting them via a touch screen or stylus. There is a cost incurred for each word chosen. The cost is recorded in the system and may affect game play. In this embodiment choosing a word from the obvious list decrements the countdown clock by 30 seconds a word from the mid level list decrements it by 10 seconds and words from the sentiment list do not incur any extra penalty hence those clue words are free . The game is thus structured to encourage the clue giver to provide sentiment associations over factual and obvious associations although these can also be useful from a market research perspective . The clue giver can move between these word list screens by selecting one of the appropriate tabs . The clue giver can adopt various strategies in choosing which combination of obvious mid level and sentiment words to send.

At the point in the game depicted in the clue giver has chosen the following clues to induce the guesser to guess Brand R crossfit from the obvious list jogging from the mid level list and cool and fashionable from the sentiment list.

The guesser s screen at the same moment in the game is shown in . He has received the clues sent by the clue giver. The guesser types in his guesses via the soft keyboard and sends it to the clue giver by pressing the submit button . In the game depicted the guesser s initial guess is sneakers .

When the countdown clock reaches zero the game ends and the results from the several rounds of play comprising one complete game are summarized in the results screen shown in .

As an example the selected clue words in the example scenario from show an awareness of a recent Brand R product initiative crossfit an association of Brand R with jogging and some positive sentiment about the brand. By integrating game play data from thousands of highly engaged players over days weeks or months we can discern significant patterns of awareness and sentiment. show hypothetical visualizations of such integrated data. contains two word clouds that show the relative frequency with which free sentiment oriented words were chosen for the target word Brand R on the left and the target word Brand P on the right. The word clouds show that Brand R s shoes are perceived as colorful and fashionable whereas Brand P s shoes are perceived as cheap and retro. contains two word clouds that show the relative frequency with which mid level activity words were associated with the target words Brand N on the left and Brand P on the right. The word clouds show that Brand N was associated primarily with running football and basketball whereas Brand P is associated primarily with soccer. Finally the chart in shows the relative selection frequency of the clue fuel for the target word Brand N by two demographic segments over a six month period in which Brand N introduced a new product called fuel . This visualization therefore tracks the degree to which the new product campaign has been noticed by males and females in the 18 24 age range males were more receptive to the campaign than females with both groups going from low initial name recognition to high recognition and then to the beginning of a decline in recognition as the marketing campaign slackened.

Finally the screen display in shows a list of power ups for the Name Game game. Power ups unlock entertaining game features that can be given to players as rewards or that can be sold to players for virtual or real currency. The power ups for Name Game listed in are 

In other embodiments the target words and clue lists presented to the players may depend on physical context. For example certain target words and clues may be associated with specific geographic locations e.g. sneakers and tennis shoes are the preferred terms for athletic shoes in different parts of the United States. The context may even be very local with different target words and clues used if the players are in different types of buildings such as a church workplace home hotel store restaurant and the like. The location data used to establish context may be derived from user supplied data in the player database or by using a technological method such as GPS IP address etc.

In one embodiment the domains of the target words presented to the players may be varied based on the interests listed in the user supplied data in the player database or in response to user input by the players. In another embodiment the reading level of the target words and clues presented to the players may be varied based on user supplied data in the player database or in response to user input by the players.

In order for the Name Game game to be as entertaining as possible and also for the game to elicit the most useful market research data care must be taken to derive suitable and varied target words and clue lists. The cost of deriving target words and clue lists for Name Game can represent a significant fraction of the development cost for the entire system. It is therefore advantageous to develop cost effective means for deriving target words and clue lists.

In one embodiment target words and clue words may be generated by crowdsourcing i.e. receiving responses to queries by teams of human contributors typically via the Internet. For example the clues may be generated by posing a question to a crowdsourcing service such as Amazon s Mechanical Turk and then retrieving answers. A question like what things are blue could be sent to several participants in the crowdsourcing system and their answers combined and filtered to improve quality. For example one player might answer water sky and berries while another might answer sky mold and jazz . By picking only words that are reported multiple times like sky in this example the quality and obviousness of the words can be improved.

In another embodiment target words and clue words for the Name Game game may be crowdsourced by having human contributors play a word game. For example a game like Pictionary could be used to get contributors to generate lists of words that describe the same drawn image.

Clues may also be generated by extracting words objects and the like from on line and physical documents. For example an OCR device may be configured to read documents to extract words or a Web bot could be configured to extract target words and clue words from documents on the World Wide Web.

In at least some embodiments a request from the client device can be received to an interface layer associated with a destination address of the request where the interface layer can include components such as routers load balancers application programming interfaces and the like. The interface layer can receive the request and direct information for the request to one or more computing resources such as one or more Web servers and or one or more application servers which can process the request using data in one or more data stores or databases in at least some embodiments. It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks as discussed and suggested herein. As used herein a data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. A server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between a client device and a resource can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depictions of various systems and services herein should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

Various aspects can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks. Various embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet a cellular network an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof. Server s may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java or C or any scripting language such as Perl or Python as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include any of a number of different database servers.

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

