---

title: Infrastructure correlation protocol
abstract: The performance and/or state of communication infrastructure that transmits data may be correlated with the transmitted data. In one implementation, a method may include receiving infrastructure data relating to a state of communication infrastructure; receiving identifiers corresponding to machine to machine nodes that transmit data using the communication infrastructure; storing the infrastructure data to associate the infrastructure data to the identifiers corresponding to the nodes; generating structured data that represents a correlation of the received data and the infrastructure data; and providing at least a portion of the structured data, to one or more devices relating to the plurality of computing nodes or the communication infrastructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413599&OS=09413599&RS=09413599
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09413599
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
Machine to Machine M2M communications refer to technologies that allow devices which may be referred to as nodes of an M2M network to communicate with one another over wired or wireless networks. An M2M node may include a sensor meter or other device that captures an event temperature inventory level etc. which is relayed through a network wireless wired or hybrid to an application that translates the captured event into meaningful information e.g. items need to be restocked .

Data from nodes in an M2M network referred to as M2M data herein may be received and analyzed at a central site referred to as an application server herein . The application server as used herein may refer to one or more server devices and or software components which may be physically distributed or located at a single location. Typically the application server or users associated with the application server may make decisions such as business or process decisions based on an analysis of the M2M data associated with some or all of the nodes in the M2M network. It can be important for the decision making process of the M2M network application server that the data received by the application server is not corrupted or otherwise adversely affected during the transport of the data from the M2M nodes to the application server.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Techniques described herein may provide for an analysis of the performance of infrastructure such as network infrastructure that may transmit data. The transmitted data may correspond to M2M data or more generally to data transmitted by any computing device across network infrastructure. The analysis may include correlating the operation of the infrastructure with the data. Based on the analysis actions may be taken and or reports may be generated. The analysis may be provided as a service by an operator of the infrastructure.

Assume that an operator of the application component notices or receives an alert regarding a questionable data point in the M2M data received by the application component. As shown in for example a plot of M2M Application data versus time e.g. a plot of sensed temperatures sensed soil moisture levels etc. versus time may include a section in which the M2M data exhibits an abrupt drop off which may indicate data loss. The operator of the application server may wish to investigate the source of the potential data loss. The operator may query the correlation component to view infrastructure data corresponding to the M2M data that exhibits the potential data loss. The operator may determine for example that a particular network element NE responsible for delivering the M2M data corresponding to the data loss may have been experienced an error over the time period corresponding to the data loss or an individual reporting device may have gone offline for some reason.

In this manner operators of the application server may be able to obtain infrastructure data relating to the M2M data received by the application server. Being able to obtain infrastructure data relating to M2M data may be useful in a number of scenarios such as when diagnosing the cause of M2M data loss or corruption or in viewing the robustness of the communication infrastructure over a particular time period. In general if the M2M data is somehow corrupt or data is missing and associated reasons for the data being missing are not understood the application server may process the data verbatim and undesirable results could occur. More specifically data received by the application server should not be corrupted should be received with awareness of the completeness of the data and should not be otherwise adversely affected during the transport of the data from the M2M nodes to the application server. The definition of what adequately constitutes a complete data set may be desirable for the ability of the M2M system to function properly.

In some implementations in addition to providing reports to the application server the correlation component may perform actions based on the analysis of the infrastructure data and or M2M data. For example the correlation component may determine that particular data items of the M2M data may have been lost in transmission and may request that the corresponding M2M nodes retransmit the data. As another example the correlation component may determine that a particular network section or network element is down and may correspondingly instruct one or more M2M nodes to delay sending M2M data.

In one implementation the correlation protocol as described herein may be used in the context of communications with respect to M2M systems. The example of environment will be particularly described in the context of M2M systems.

As illustrated environment may correspond to an environment in which one or more M2M networks are implemented. An M2M network may be defined as a number of M2M nodes that transmit data to one or more application servers.

A number of M2M networks through N N 1 which may be referred to collectively as M2M networks or singularly as an M2M network are illustrated in . Each M2M network may include one or more nodes illustrated as a circle in . The nodes of a M2M network may communicate via communication infrastructure with one or more application servers through J J 1 which may be referred to collectively as application servers or singularly as an application server . Correlation component may receive M2M data from nodes and infrastructure data from communication infrastructure . Additionally external data sources may supply data to one or more of M2M networks communication infrastructure application servers and or correlation component .

Each node may include a device that may implement one or more sensing components and a communication component. The sensing component may include for example a temperature sensor a humidity sensor a light sensor a camera a video camera a geo positioning element e.g. a GPS component and or other sensors that generate or monitor data that relates to the environment of a particular node . The communication component may include a wireless or wired communication circuit that allows node to transmit sensed data to another node and or to communication infrastructure . For example the communication component may include a cellular radio a short range radio circuitry to communicate over a wired link or another communication technology.

As one example of an implementation of environment M2M network may correspond to an agriculture based M2M network that monitors environmental conditions for a fruit farm and M2M network may correspond to M2M network that monitors inventory for a retailer and M2M network N may correspond to a healthcare based M2M network that monitors the status of equipment in a hospital.

Nodes are frequently implemented as relatively small and portable electronic devices and may be plugged in to a power outlet or powered based on battery power and or solar power. For example for an agricultural M2M network numerous nodes may be arranged in agricultural land e.g. a vegetable field grain field orchard etc. to provide information relevant to a farmer e.g. soil moisture readings temperature readings etc. . Each node in such a network may be a relatively small and inexpensive device and may be powered by a battery designed to last through a single growing season. Each node in an M2M network may communicate directly with communication infrastructure e.g. authentication infrastructure may include a wireless cellular network and each node may include a radio circuitry for communicating with the cellular network . Alternatively or additionally one or more nodes of a particular M2M network may be designated as relay nodes that communicate with communication infrastructure . Other nodes in the particular M2M network may transmit their sensed data to the relay nodes which may forward the data through communication infrastructure e.g. periodically and or on another basis such as when network bandwidth is available .

Communication infrastructure component may include one or more networks that act to connect M2M networks to application servers . The networks may include for example one or more networks of any type such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN and or another type of network. In some implementations the networks may include packet based Internet Protocol IP networks. In one implementation communication infrastructure may include a cellular network such as a long term evolution LTE based wireless network.

Application servers may include one or more computing devices designed to receive data from M2M networks process and or aggregate the data and present the data via a graphical user interface to one or more users associated with M2M networks . In some implementations based on the received data application servers may automatically control one or more other devices such as devices associated with a manufacturing process or agricultural process. Alternatively or additionally application servers may provide analytic services through which users of application server may monitor and or evaluate M2M system . In one implementation each application server may correspond to a single M2M system . Thus for example users of a particular agricultural based M2M network may interact with a first application server users of a particular healthcare based M2M network may interact with a second application server etc.

Correlation component may correlate infrastructure data from communication infrastructure to M2M data from nodes . Correlation component may provide the information determined based on the correlation to application servers which may in turn present the information to one or more users. Alternatively or additionally correlation component may act on the information such as by controlling communication infrastructure and or nodes . The operation of correlation component will be particularly described in more detail below. Although described as a component M2M infrastructure server may include any number of distributed or co located devices and or applications that are used to implement the functionality described herein for correlation component . For example correlation component be implemented in a distributed manner and may include a combination of routers switches packet data switching nodes PDSNs a network management platform e.g. one or more servers etc.

External data sources may include any external data sources such as commercial data providers or other sources of data which may include any external information that is used in the operation of M2M application server software applications and or correlation component or that may assist in the generation of structured correlation data. Correlation component may be implemented as part of communication infrastructure or separate from communication infrastructure e.g. by a third party relative to a service provider that controls communication infrastructure .

Although illustrates example components of an environment in other implementations environment may contain fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of environment may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of environment .

As shown in nodes may connect to base stations and or to a packet data network PDN . In an LTE environment base stations may take the form of evolved node Bs eNodeBs . The environment of may further include serving gateway SGW mobility management entity MME packet data network gateway PGW policy charging and rules function PCRF . Application server and correlation component may connect through PDN and or the EPS LTE network.

Base stations may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as calls audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from mobile device . Base stations and nodes may communicate over radio interfaces to form a radio access network RAN . Base stations may receive traffic from and or send traffic to PDN via SGW and PGW .

Base stations may be physically located to provide cellular coverage to nodes such that a node may seamlessly move out of range of one base station and into range of another base station . Each base station may simultaneously provide radio connectivity to multiple nodes .

SGW may include one or more computation and communication devices that route and forward user data packets. SGW may route and forward user packets and also act as a mobility anchor during inter base station handoffs.

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that perform signaling in environment . MME may for example be responsible for authenticating nodes maintaining location information for nodes and selecting a PGW to service a particular node . MME may also operate to establish bearer channels associated with a session with node to hand off node from the EPS to another network to hand off node from the other network to the EPS and or to perform other operations. MME may perform policing operations on traffic destined for and or received from node .

PCRF may include one or more server devices or other types of devices that aggregate information to and from the EPS network and or other sources. PCRF may receive information regarding policies and or subscriptions from one or more sources such as subscriber databases and or from one or more users such as for example an administrator associated with PCRF .

PGW may include one or more network devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For instance PGW may aggregate traffic received from one or more SGWs and may send the aggregated traffic to PDN and or to another network. PGW may also or alternatively receive traffic from PDN and or another network and may send the traffic toward node via SGW and or base station .

PDN may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example PDN may include an IP based PDN. PDN may include for example a WAN such as the Internet and or one or more other networks. Nodes may connect through PGW to data servers application servers or to other servers applications that are coupled to PDN .

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Alternatively or additionally one or more of the devices shown in may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of .

In one implementation data structure may be implemented by correlation component as a relational database. In general a relational database may include a database that has a collection of tables of data items which may be formally described and organized according to the relational model. In a relational database each table schema may identify a primary column used for identifying a row called the primary key. Tables may be related to one another by using a foreign key in one table that points to the primary key in another table.

As illustrated in data structure may conceptually include three sections which in the context of a relational database may be implemented for example as three tables. The three tables may include M2M node identifier table M2M data table and infrastructure data table .

M2M node identifier table may store information used to identify nodes of M2M systems . In some implementations instead of identifying M2M data at the node level M2M node identifier table may store information identifying M2M systems . Nodes may be identified by for example the IP address of the node a mobile device serial number for nodes that connect through a wireless network a telephone number associated with the node for nodes that connect through a wireless network or another identifier assigned by the operator of communication infrastructure and or the operator of a particular M2M system .

In one implementation when a node or M2M system initially begins to use or registers with correlation component correlation component may write an entry that identifies the node or the M2M system to M2M node identifier table . For example when a node associated with a mobile telephone number first transmits M2M data to M2M infrastructure component node may register with correlation component and in response correlation component may write the mobile telephone number to M2M nodes identifier table .

M2M data table may store the M2M data generated by nodes . As previously mentioned M2M data may generally include data sensed or otherwise generated by nodes . The values in M2M data table may thus include for example values representing temperature humidity light intensity images video geo positioning data or other information. Each entry in M2M data table may be associated with a foreign key that points back to M2M node identifier table e.g. a foreign key may be the identifier for a particular node as stored in M2M node identifier table . In this manner this foreign key may indicate from which node the data stored in a particular entry of table was received. In some implementations entries in M2M data table may be associated with additional information such as a timestamp value indicating when the M2M data was received by correlation component .

Infrastructure data table may include data relating to the state of communication infrastructure . The data stored in infrastructure data table may be stored in a way that associates particular items of infrastructure data to those of nodes to which the particular items of infrastructure data are relevant. For example the infrastructure data may include values describing the congestion level over time at a particular base station . This infrastructure dated may be particularly relevant to nodes that connect through a particular base station . Infrastructure data table may also include correspondences between particular infrastructure elements e.g. routers base stations network links and the nodes to which the infrastructure elements are relevant. For example when a node newly attaches to a particular base station infrastructure data table may be updated to include information indicate the attachment of the node to the base station. As is also illustrated in some entries in infrastructure data table may correspond to multiple nodes e.g. a link congestion level value may be relevant to multiple nodes and a single node may be associated with multiple entries in infrastructure data table .

In general the infrastructure data stored by infrastructure data table may relate to any information obtainable from communication infrastructure that may be relevant to the connectivity of nodes to application servers . Non limiting examples of the type of information that may be defined by the infrastructure data include 1 the operational state of network elements e.g. whether a particular routers switches base stations are online or offline etc. 2 congestion levels at various links in communication structure 3 congestion levels for radio links e.g. radio links between nodes and base stations 4 signal strength at nodes 5 and or an indication of the amount of operational redundancy of the various network elements communication infrastructure e.g. the number of backup links or the number of backup routers corresponding to a particular portion of communication infrastructure . In one implementation infrastructure data may be obtained from network elements in communication structure . Alternatively or additionally the M2M data transmitted by nodes may be augmented to include data that is measured by nodes such as an indication of the radio signal strength received by a node battery level of the node or other information that may be determined by node and that may be that may be relevant to the connectivity of node to an application server .

In some implementations the M2M data and the infrastructure data may be received from M2M nodes and from communication infrastructure using one or more protocols called correlation protocols herein that may define formatting reporting and or other features relating to the structure of the received information. The correlation protocol may exist and function alongside existing status communication protocols such as SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol or the correlation protocol may serve as the primary means for communicating and controlling status messages. By requiring data from M2M nodes and from communication infrastructure to conform to the correlation protocol correlation component may be able to efficiently and effectively process and use the information received from M2M nodes communication infrastructure and or external sources . As an example of the operation of the correlation protocol the correlation protocol may specify specific data formats specific values that should be included with the received correlation information e.g. a timestamp value and or specific categories or tags that should be associated with information received from M2M nodes and or communication infrastructure . For instance items of data received from M2M nodes may be explicitly identified by the transmitting M2M node with a specific data type such as a type field indicating that a particular data item is a temperature value humidity value soil moisture value altitude value velocity value etc. Similarly items of data received from communication infrastructure may be explicitly identified with a specific infrastructure data type such as a type field indicating that the data item defines a particular router performance metric defines a particular radio interface performance metric defines a particular network quality of service metric etc. As another example data items received from M2M nodes and communication infrastructure may each be associated with a field identifying the role of the network element that generated the data item e.g. a router firewall M2M node etc. .

A number of different techniques may be used to operatively connect correlation component to the M2M data application server and external source . illustrate example network architectures used to operatively connect correlation e component to the M2M data application server and or external source .

As illustrated in M2M data from nodes may be transmitted to correlation component which may then make the M2M data available to application server . For example the operator of correlation component may make available an application programming interface API to the operators of M2M systems . The API may include specific formats and or protocols that indicate how nodes are to initially register with correlation component and acceptable formats for M2M data received at correlation component . As is further illustrated in application server may query correlation component to obtain the M2M data as well as to obtain information relating to the correlation between the M2M data and the infrastructure data M2M data infrastructure data correlation information . For example with respect to the M2M data application server may subscribe or register to receive a particular subset of the M2M data in which application server is interested. Similarly application server or an operator of application server may determine to examine the information relating to the correlation between the M2M data on the infrastructure data application server may similarly query correlation component to obtain this information.

Process may include receiving identification information for the M2M nodes and or systems block . For example nodes may initially register with correlation component . The registration may include providing an identifier corresponding to each node e.g. an IP address cellular telephone number etc. . Alternatively or additionally the correlation between the M2M data and the infrastructure data as described herein may be performed on an M2M system basis. In this case the identification information may be for a single M2M system e.g. a set of two or more M2M nodes . As previously mentioned a correlation protocol may be used to coordinate and format the communications between correlation component nodes and communication infrastructure as relevant correlation data is prepared and transmitted. The correlation protocol may specify protocols for registration of nodes with infrastructure component and correlation component .

Process may include receiving M2M data block . As mentioned previously M2M data may be received by correlation component from nodes corresponding to one or more M2M systems . Correlation component may store the received M2M data along with an indication of the node and or M2M system associated with the M2M data. In some implementations correlation component may store only an indication that data was received from a particular node and may not necessarily store the actual M2M data that was sensed by the node . Different types of example M2M data that may be received by correlation component is described in more detail below with reference to .

Process may further include receiving infrastructure data corresponding to communication infrastructure block . The infrastructure data may include data describing the operation of communication infrastructure . In one implementation network elements in communication infrastructure may be configured to push relevant infrastructure data to correlation component . Alternatively or additionally correlation component may query the network elements of communication infrastructure structure to obtain the infrastructure data.

The received M2M data block and the received infrastructure data block may be stored in a relational database that includes a data structure similar to that discussed above with respect to . The receiving of the M2M data and the infrastructure data may also include validating the received data such as by checking the data for errors and compliance with the correlation protocol.

In some implementations data such as correlation data may be feed back into system to create a feedback loop. For example substantive M2M data generated by an M2M node may be analyzed by an external device or service potentially modified and then reintroduced into system . Such a scenario may create a loop in which the data is retransmitted to the external device or service. In some implementations the error checking performed in block may include checking for and correcting unstable feedback loops. A feedback loop factor value may be assigned to correlation data and is to be defined in the correlation protocol. A feedback decay factor can define attributes of feedback that are acceptable such as the passage of time passage of distance iterations of correlation data that contain some parts of repeated information. For example Node 1 transmits temperature T at time 0h00m00s 0h00m30s 0h01m00s . . . every 30 seconds . Node 1 also transmits its location but only once every 1 minute. So the location data for temperature sample T would be the same at times 0h00m00s 0h00m30s as temperature samples T are taken. The function of feedback control within the correlation protocol would be to set acceptable thresholds for certain data sets. In this example such measurements are acceptable. However if data is coming from the sensor itself and also coming from external subscription sources e.g. external data from external source and the same node N with same temperature T measurements are received the feedback loop correction function can manage such duplicates and parse remove data in the correlation as indicated by the correlation protocol. This may help to ensure that correlation data is not received and processed in such a way as to damage the value of data and or performance of the system.

Process may further include generating structured data that represents the correlation of the received M2M data and infrastructure data block . In one implementation correlation component may correlate the M2M data and the infrastructure data using the information received pursuant to the correlation protocol e.g. timestamp values data types for the data items received by M2M infrastructure component information identifying device that generated a particular data item etc. . As previously described a relational database may be used by the correlation component to store the received M2M data and infrastructure data and may be used to facilitate the generation of the structured data that represents the correlation of the M2M data and the infrastructure data.

In some implementations when determining the correlation between the received M2M data and infrastructure data models and or other functions e.g. externally supplied functions may be used to intelligently determine which data items associated with the infrastructure data affect the M2M data.

Process may further include receiving a request for the information relating to the correlation between the M2M data and the infrastructure data block . For example an operator of application server may desire to analyze the performance and or reliability of communication infrastructure with respect to the transmission of the M2M data received by application server . Application server may submit a request such as a request formatted according to an API provided by the operator of correlation component . In one implementation the request may include an indication of a time period that is of interest e.g. a start time and an end time a start time and a duration an end time and a duration etc. particular values of M2M data that are of interest and or particular nodes that are of interest. In some implementations correlation component may provide value added analysis features such as by providing summary information or charts e.g. via a web interface that provide a high level view of the operation of communication infrastructure with respect to the M2M data corresponding to application server .

In some implementations the request received in block may be a request that is stored by correlation component and that may be used to generate automatic actions by correlation component . For example correlation component may store rules that when triggered cause actions to be taken with respect to nodes communication infrastructure and or application servers . For example a trigger may be activated when a certain network link is detected to be down and may cause one or more affected nodes to be notified and or a user of an application server to be notified. As another example the trigger may cause a message to be sent to an external application that may in some way operate to control an M2M system .

Process may further include providing in response to the request the requested information relating to the correlation between the M2M data and the infrastructure data block YES block . As mentioned above correlation component may provide the information relating to the correlation between the M2M data and the infrastructure data via an API e.g. programmatically a web interface or through another interface. In one implementation correlation component may obtain the requested information based on the structured correlation data that is generated in block . Further as previously mentioned the requested information may be automatically provided in response to a rule that is automatically triggered based on the received M2M data and infrastructure data.

As illustrated in concepts described herein may be conceptually divided into the categories infrastructure correlation M2M applications M2M apps and external sources. The infrastructure category may refer to the various types of data items that may be received from communication infrastructure . The M2M applications category may refer to the various types of data items that may be received from nodes . Correlation category may refer to the operations by correlation component in generating and using the structured correlation data. The external sources category may refer to data generated by other entities such as external third party commercial private data providers and may be useful to the operation of correlation component in generating or using the structured correlation data. Note also that some correlation data may not be used in all cases in which case the correlation protocol will manage policies regarding use. In some cases for example location data may need to be truncated to protect privacy. In that case data sent to external sources or otherwise acted upon may require modification by correlation component .

Data in the infrastructure category may generally relate to communication infrastructure . As illustrated infrastructure data may include data relating to categories such as fixed e.g. wired core network security a wireless core network a wireless radio frequency RF network and hosting cloud components of communication infrastructure . As is further illustrated in each category may include multiple sub categories of data. The fixed core network category may include the sub categories routers switches circuits quality of service QoS caching and multicasting. The security category may include the sub categories firewall access control policies and physical access. The wireless core network category may include the sub categories cell base station BSC PDSN FA HA EHA infrastructure network and AAA. The wireless RF network category may include the sub categories cellular radio service handoff control session control and QoS. The hosting cloud category may include the sub categories servers OS and virtualization.

Data in the M2M applications category may generally relate to the M2M data generated by nodes . As illustrated in the M2M data may include data relating to categories such as environmental location proximity and device. The environmental category may include the sub categories temperature humidity wind speed direction soil moisture plant moisture seismic data and solar UV data. The location category may include the sub categories latitude longitude altitude velocity acceleration and direction of movement. The proximity category may include the sub categories devices nearby relative velocity relative acceleration and relative direction. The device category may include the sub categories hardware address IP address MAC address and timestamps.

The correlation category illustrated in may include functional components relating to the process shown in . The functional components may generally include a data intake component e.g. corresponding to the operations of blocks and correlation engine component e.g. corresponding to the operation of block and the components output action and reporting e.g. corresponding to the operation of blocks and .

As is further shown in the M2M applications category the infrastructure category and or the correlation category may also receive information from the external sources category which may include any external information that is used in the operation of M2M application servers and or correlation component or that may assist in the generation of the structured correlation data. As an example an external data provider may maintain data tracking soil moisture conditions around the country. The soil moisture data may be received by correlation component and incorporated into structured correlation data which may be used by M2M application servers without necessarily requiring an operator of the M2M application servers to need to incorporate soil moisture sensors in the nodes installed by the operator.

In this example assume that correlation component provides a graphical interface such as a web interface that provides various reports relating to M2M systems that are being monitored by correlation component . One such report may be a chart that presents a graphical view of the signal strength associated with nodes and M2M system . As shown in a map of the geographical area covered by nodes illustrated by circles in the map may be displayed. Next to each node a graphical indication of the current signal strength or another metric such as the average signal strength corresponding to the node over the last 24 hours may be presented. In this example the signal strength may be presented as a number of bars in which one bar indicates a relatively weak signal and five bars indicate a relatively strong signal and or by colored icons. In this manner an operator can quickly and efficiently view the status of the communication infrastructure relevant to the nodes in an M2M system that are relevant to the operator. The intent of is to demonstrate one of any number of ways information developed from the correlation component can be presented and used. The structured correlation data can also be used by any variety of applications to allow for graphical or analytical analysis and display of information and knowledge gained by correlation component .

As another example of correlation functionality between the M2M data and the infrastructure data by correlation component consider M2M data that includes a temperature plot of data points sensed by one or more nodes . Correlation component may provide information relating to the data points e.g. from the structured correlation data that was determined by correlation component such as the base stations associated with the sensing nodes network congestion at the base stations signal to noise ratio of the radio interface corresponding to the base stations etc.

As another example of the providing of correlation information between the M2M data and the infrastructure data for a given set of M2M data correlation component may provide a set of key performance indicator KPIs that summarizes the strength or robustness of the M2M data. For example for a user defined set of M2M data correlation component may provide an average level of network congestion and wireless signal strength corresponding to the data points in the set of M2M data.

As illustrated message may include a number of sections or fields including header section payload section s connected device identifier location data time data section and error checking section .

Header section may include data identifying the M2M node infrastructure device or other device that produced message . The identification data may correspond to the identification information received in block .

Payload section s may include one or more payload elements illustrated in as payload elements 1 through M. Each payload element may include the substantive data as well as other data that may be used by correlation component .

As an example each payload section may include a number of sub sections illustrated as correlation ID correlation category type and correlation data . Correlation ID may include a field or category value that specifies a source type associated with the substantive payload data e.g. infrastructure data M2M data external data . Correlation category type may include a field or category value that specifies a type of the substantive correlation data. For example category type may indicate that the substantive data is GPS location data a temperature measurement a network link latency value etc. Correlation data may include the substantive data e.g. the actual GPS location data the temperature reading the network link latency value etc. .

Connected device identifier may include information identifying other devices that are directly connected to the device that generates message . Connected device identifier may allow correlation component to dynamically construct the topography of communication infrastructure and or M2M networks without having to explicitly query the communication infrastructure and or M2M networks.

Location data may include information defining the geographical location of the device that generates message . Time date section may include a time and data stamp at which message was generated. Error checking section may include error checking information for message such as check sum data cyclic redundancy check CRC data or other error checking information. In implementations in which data relating to correlation information may be re circulated in system potentially creating unstable feedback loops error checking section may include information to restrict the potential feedback loops e.g. a feedback decay value a loop counter .

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface a radio interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while a series of blocks has been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

