---

title: Steering column for a motor vehicle
abstract: The invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle, wherein the steering column comprises a steering spindle bearing unit and a steering spindle mounted in the steering spindle bearing unit so as to be rotatable about a steering spindle longitudinal axis, and a support unit, which is provided in the motor vehicle for fixing the steering column and against which the steering spindle bearing unit is retained. The steering spindle bearing unit has a thread and can be adjusted by means of a motor along the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the support unit, wherein the steering spindle bearing unit, for adjustment thereof along the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the support unit, is connected by means of at least one drive belt or at least one drive chain to the motor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09421994&OS=09421994&RS=09421994
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AG
number: 09421994
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2013 003877 filed Dec. 20 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. DE 102013101045.8 filed Feb. 1 2013 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle wherein the steering column has a steering spindle bearing unit and a steering spindle which is mounted in the steering spindle bearing unit so as to be rotatable about a steering spindle longitudinal axis and a supporting unit which is provided for the fastening of the steering column in the motor vehicle and on which the steering spindle bearing unit is held and the steering spindle bearing unit has a thread and can be adjusted along the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the supporting unit by way of a motor.

In the case of generic steering columns the position of the steering wheel can be adjusted in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis by way of a motor in order to adapt the position of the steering wheel which is mounted on the steering spindle to the respective vehicle driver.

A generic steering column is presented for example in DE 36 36 315 A1. In said document the steering spindle bearing unit has a sleeve which is mounted in rotatable fashion on its outer surface. Said sleeve bears the thread and engages into a nut which is fixed to the supporting unit. To set said sleeve in rotation an electric motor is provided which drives the sleeve by way of a worm in order to rotate said sleeve about the steering spindle longitudinal axis. Rotation of said sleeve in the nut which is arranged fixedly on the supporting unit results in an adjustment of the steering spindle bearing unit together with the steering spindle in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis.

Utilizing the methods and systems described herein a steering column is provided having an alternative motor driven drive unit which is as quiet as possible but also takes up little installation space and which is configured to drive the steering spindle bearing unit so as to adjust the position of the steering column along a longitudinal axis of the steering spindle.

Said steering column is distinguished by the fact that the steering spindle bearing unit for its adjustment along the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the supporting unit is connected by means of at least one drive belt or at least one drive chain to the motor.

It is therefore a basic concept of the invention to transmit the rotational movement of the motor by way of at least one drive belt or at least one drive chain to the steering spindle bearing unit such that the latter is adjusted in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the supporting unit when it is correspondingly driven by the motor.

The motor is preferably an electric motor. The steering spindle is preferably of telescopic design. For example it may have at least two steering spindle sections which engage one inside the other so as to be non rotatable relative to one another but which are displaceable relative to one another preferably one inside the other in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis. That part or section of the steering spindle which bears the steering wheel connection for the fastening of the steering wheel is expediently mounted in the steering spindle bearing unit such that despite being rotatable about the steering spindle longitudinal axis it is not displaceable relative to the steering spindle bearing unit in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis. This type of design and mounting of the steering spindle in the steering spindle bearing unit is known per se from the prior art and does not need to be explained in any more detail.

It is expediently provided that the motor has a drive rotor by which it acts on the drive belt or on the drive chain. The steering spindle bearing unit may like the steering spindle be of telescopic design. In this context it is expedient if the steering spindle bearing unit is of multi part form wherein the parts of the steering spindle bearing unit are arranged so as to engage one inside the other in telescopic fashion in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis and that part of the steering spindle bearing unit which is situated closest to a steering wheel connection of the steering spindle has the thread. Said parts of the steering spindle bearing unit may like the steering spindle bearing unit as a whole be of tubular form and engage around or encase corresponding sections of the steering spindle.

The thread which serves for the adjustment of the steering spindle bearing unit in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis is in preferred embodiments formed on the outside of the steering spindle bearing unit. It is thus preferably an external thread. It is however alternatively also possible for said thread to be an internal thread which is formed internally in the steering spindle bearing unit. The steering spindle bearing unit is normally of tubular form and encases the one or more sections mounted rotatably therein of the steering spindle. By means of the steering spindle the rotational movement of the steering wheel is transmitted to the steering gear and thus to the wheels of the vehicle that are correspondingly provided for steering purposes. At any rate the thread is expediently of encircling form around the steering spindle bearing unit in the circumferential direction. It may but need not imperatively be formed over the entire circumferential direction. It is for example also possible for the thread to be formed in the manner of thread sections which are spaced apart from one another in the circumferential direction of the steering spindle bearing unit. Said thread sections are preferably of strip shaped form. Their longitudinal extent expediently runs parallel to the steering spindle longitudinal axis. To transmit the rotational movement generated at the drive belt and or the drive chain by the motor to the thread of the steering spindle bearing unit a nut is preferably provided. The nut can engage into the thread of the steering spindle bearing unit. The nut can be rotatable by means of the drive belt or the drive chain. The thread may be arranged fixedly and non rotatably on the steering spindle bearing unit. The thread is advantageously formed by multiple at least three thread sections of which preferably one or more thread sections is or are fixed to the casing tube so as to be displaceable in the direction of the longitudinal axis. In this case at least one individual thread section preferably exactly one single thread section are arranged on the casing tube so as to be non displaceable in the longitudinal direction whereas the other thread sections are arranged so as to be displaceable in the longitudinal direction. The displacement travel is in this case advantageously limited to the spacing of second thread flights to one another.

To illustrate the invention a belt tensioning system is advantageously provided which is in this case not illustrated in the figures.

Since for the movement of the steering spindle bearing unit in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis it is however ultimately merely of importance that the nut and steering spindle bearing unit perform a rotation relative to one another there is also in a departure from this the alternative variant in which the nut is fastened rotationally conjointly to the supporting unit or rotationally conjointly in some other way to the motor vehicle. It is then possible as presented in DE 36 36 315 A1 for the steering spindle bearing unit to have a sleeve which is mounted so as to be rotatable about the steering spindle longitudinal axis and which bears the thread of the steering spindle bearing unit. Said sleeve should then as is specifically also presented in DE 36 36 315 A1 be non displaceable in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the other parts of the steering spindle bearing unit. The drive of said rotatable sleeve of the steering spindle bearing unit may then in turn be realized by the motor via the drive belt and or the drive chain. In these cases the thread is thus fixedly and non rotatably arranged only on the sleeve and not on the other parts of the steering spindle bearing unit. Preferred embodiments of the invention provide in any case that the nut has an internal thread and engages by way of said internal thread into the thread of the steering spindle bearing unit. As already discussed in the introduction it is however also conceivable for the nut to have an external thread specifically if the steering spindle bearing unit has an internal thread. For a space saving design it is at any rate expedient for the steering spindle bearing unit to be led through the nut. To prevent rotation of the steering spindle bearing unit about the steering spindle longitudinal axis preferred embodiments of the invention provide that the steering spindle bearing unit is mounted in the supporting unit so as to be non rotatable relative to the supporting unit by way of a means for preventing rotation about the steering spindle longitudinal axis. The means for preventing rotation prevents the steering spindle bearing unit being rotated about the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the supporting unit.

Steering columns according to the invention may also have energy absorbing elements or apparatuses for a crash situation that is to say for an accident situation. Such energy absorbing elements for a crash situation are basically known in a wide variety of embodiments in the prior art. In this context preferred embodiments of the invention provide at any rate that the steering spindle bearing unit is held on the supporting unit with the interposition of a carriage wherein the carriage with the steering spindle bearing unit is mounted displaceably on the supporting unit with the interposition of an energy absorbing element for a crash situation.

Furthermore it is self evidently also possible for steering columns according to the invention to have a means for permitting height adjustment of the steering spindle or steering spindle bearing unit relative to the support unit. Said means for height adjustment may be operable purely manually or may be designed to be operable by motor. In this context particularly preferred embodiments of the invention provide that the steering column according to the invention has a height adjustment motor which drives corresponding height adjustment spindles for example.

The present disclosure will be discussed in further detail below with reference to the attached drawing figures related to an embodiment of the concepts disclosed herein.

In the exemplary embodiment of a steering column according to the invention shown here is depicted in perspective illustrations obliquely from above and obliquely from below respectively. shows the steering column in a side view. The exemplary embodiment shown here is a so called electrically adjustable steering column. Accordingly the steering spindle bearing unit together with the steering spindle can be adjusted along the steering spindle longitudinal axis in the longitudinal directions by means of the motor . The height adjustment motor serves for height adjustment in the height direction . Said motors are each electric motors. It is basically also possible for other motors to be used in order to realize the adjustment possibilities discussed in detail below.

The steering spindle is mounted in the steering spindle bearing unit so as to be rotatable about its steering spindle longitudinal axis . In general the steering spindle is of multi part form. It normally also comprises joint parts such as the fork shown in the example for forming a universal joint not illustrated in any more detail . The individual sections or parts of the steering spindle are arranged rotationally conjointly with respect to one another but so as to be displaceable preferably telescopically with respect to one another in the longitudinal direction. This is known per se in order that the steering spindle can be shortened in the event of a crash. In the section as per it is possible to see the two parts of the steering spindle which engage one inside the other in rotationally conjoint fashion. The mounting of the steering spindle in the steering spindle bearing unit does not need to be discussed in any more detail. Suitable bearing types are known in the prior art. To enable a steering wheel not illustrated here to be fastened to the steering spindle the latter has a steering wheel connection . It is also to be pointed out that that part of the steering spindle which has the steering wheel connection is mounted rotatably in the steering wheel side part of the steering spindle bearing unit such that the stated part of the steering spindle and the part of the steering spindle bearing unit are not displaceable relative to one another in the longitudinal direction . In the exemplary embodiment shown the steering spindle bearing unit is formed from two parts and which are displaceable relative to one another in the longitudinal direction that is to say along the steering spindle longitudinal axis and which in this case likewise engage one inside the other in telescopic fashion. The part points toward the steering wheel connection . The part leads to the steering assistance unit . The latter may be designed as is known per se from the prior art. In this case the steering assistance means can both realize a transmission ratio of the steer angle introduced into the steering spindle by way of the steering wheel as is known under the expression superposition steering and also impart torque assistance such as is known under the expression servo steering . Such steering assistance means are known in the prior art and do not need to be discussed in any more detail here. The invention can however also be applied to steering columns without steering assistance means. The steering column according to the invention may also be used in steer by wire steering systems or in steering systems in which the steering assistance is realized at some other position in the motor vehicle for example in the steering gear.

The steering spindle may also be rotatably mounted in the part of the steering spindle bearing unit . If the steering spindle is mounted in rotatable fashion in some other way it is however possible for both the bearing arrangement in the part and the part of the steering spindle bearing unit to be omitted entirely.

The supporting unit can be fastened to the body of the motor vehicle by way of the fastening lugs . Said supporting unit serves as a support for the steering spindle bearing unit . In the exemplary embodiment shown the steering spindle bearing unit is held on the supporting unit not directly but indirectly with the interposition of the carriage and the intermediate part . In a manner known per se an energy absorbing element is arranged between the carriage and the supporting unit which energy absorbing element serves for dissipating impact energy in the event of a crash that is to say in the event of a vehicle collision. Here as energy absorbing element all types of such elements known from the prior art may basically be used. In the exemplary embodiment shown the energy absorbing element is formed in the manner of a bending lug. One leg of the bending lug is fixed to the supporting unit . The other leg of the bending lug is fixed to the carriage . In the event of a crash the carriage together with the steering spindle bearing unit and the steering spindle is displaced in the direction toward the front wheels of the vehicle that is to say in the direction toward the fastening lugs wherein the impact energy is dissipated through corresponding deformation and possibly with an additional associated fracture of the energy absorbing element .

For height adjustment in height directions the steering spindle bearing unit together with the steering spindle is suspended on the supporting unit so as to be pivotable about the pivot axis . In the exemplary embodiment shown said pivotable suspension is realized by way of the rocker and the steering assistance means and the intermediate part which is suspended separately therefrom on the carriage . This is self evidently merely an example and may also be implemented in an entirely different way. For the height adjustment itself the steering spindle bearing unit is fastened to the carriage not directly but with the interposition of the intermediate part . The intermediate part together with the steering spindle bearing unit and thus also with the steering spindle can be adjusted relative to the carriage in height directions . In order that tilting of the intermediate part in the carriage does not occur during said height adjustment a slotted guide is provided in this exemplary embodiment. This can be seen particularly clearly in the side view in . Said slotted guide is a slot shaped guide groove in the carriage in which a guide peg of the intermediate part is guided in displaceable fashion. It is conceivable and possible for a guide of said type to be formed in some other way or omitted if not required. The height adjustment itself is realized by way of the height adjustment motor which drives one of the height adjustment spindles directly and drives the other height adjustment spindle indirectly via the toothed belt . The height adjustment spindles engage by way of their thread in each case into one of the height adjustment nuts . Said height adjustment nuts are each fixed to the carriage . All of this can be seen most clearly in the section in along the section line AA in . Rotation of the height adjustment motor causes both height adjustment spindles to be rotated. Owing to their meshing engagement into the height adjustment nuts an upward or downward movement in the height direction occurs depending on the direction of rotation of the height adjustment spindles whereby the intermediate part together with the steering spindle bearing unit and the steering spindle is raised or lowered in the carriage and thus the desired height adjustment in the height direction is realized. In the exemplary embodiment shown two height adjustment spindles one on the right and one on the left of the carriage are used in order to prevent lateral tilting of the intermediate part in the carriage . In the implementation of corresponding guides it is self evidently also possible to omit one of the height adjustment spindles . Other designs of the height adjustment arrangement such as are generally known in the prior art are conceivable and possible and may be combined with the steering column according to the invention.

To realize the length adjustment according to the invention in the longitudinal directions or along the steering spindle longitudinal axis it is provided that the steering spindle bearing unit has a thread which in the exemplary embodiment shown is realized as an external thread arranged on the outside of the steering spindle bearing unit . For their adjustment along the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the supporting unit the steering spindle bearing unit and thus also the steering spindle are connected by way of a drive belt to the motor . In the exemplary embodiment shown the thread is realized in the form of thread sections which are of strip shaped form and which are spaced apart from one another in the circumferential direction of the steering spindle bearing unit . The strip shaped thread sections are guided through leadthroughs in the intermediate part . The interaction of the thread sections and leadthroughs can additionally also act as a rotation prevention means which prevents the steering spindle bearing unit or its part which bears the thread from rotating about the steering spindle longitudinal axis relative to the intermediate part . It is also possible for any other type of rotation prevention means to be realized for example a peg type guide arrangement or tongue and groove guide arrangement between steering spindle bearing unit or the part thereof and the intermediate part .

For further discussion of the longitudinal adjustment according to the invention along the steering spindle longitudinal axis or the longitudinal direction reference will now be made to in particular. shows the section along the section line AA from .

Major parts of the steering column are not illustrated in so as to give a clear view of the intermediate part the motor and the steering spindle bearing unit or the part thereof. In the intermediate part is then also omitted. show only the nut with the drive belt and the drive rotor of the motor .

In the exemplary embodiment shown the steering spindle bearing unit or the part thereof is led through the nut wherein an internal thread realized on the nut engages into the external thread implemented in the form of the thread sections of the steering spindle bearing unit or of the part thereof. The nut can be rotated by way of the drive belt . For this purpose the motor by way of its drive rotor engages on or in the drive belt . In the exemplary embodiment shown for interaction with the drive belt the nut bears an external toothing into which the belt toothing engages. In this exemplary embodiment the drive rotor also bears a corresponding external toothing in order that it can likewise engage in positively locking fashion into the belt toothing . Alternatively the rotational movement of the motor or of its drive rotor may be transmitted to the nut in some other way. If provision is to be made of corresponding friction forces it is for example also possible for the belt toothing and the external toothings and to be omitted. The use of a drive chain as a replacement for the drive belt is also possible. The use of a toothed belt is however preferable as it generates very little noise during operation and has only a low weight and even with relatively low tolerance requirements can transmit adequately high torques.

Other than in a crash situation the nut is not adjustable in terms of its position along the steering spindle longitudinal axis that is to say along the longitudinal direction . In the exemplary embodiment shown said nut is for this purpose rotatably mounted in a recess which is correspondingly delimited in the longitudinal direction in the intermediate part . This ensures that as the nut rotates the part of the steering spindle bearing unit is displaced in the longitudinal direction whereas the nut is static as viewed in said direction.

The play setting means illustrated in serves for enabling the play of the steering spindle bearing unit or of the part thereof in the intermediate part to be restricted to the required extent or correspondingly set.

In the exemplary embodiment shown the nut bears two guide rings as an axial bearing and a spring ring which preloads at least one of the guide rings against the main body of the nut in the direction of the steering spindle longitudinal axis . This serves for eliminating the play of the nut in longitudinal directions in the intermediate part . This form of play elimination may possibly be dispensed with or implemented in some other way. The guide rings can perform not only the function of axial mounting but also the function of radial mounting. In this case it is also conceivable and possible for the axial and or radial mounting to be realized by way of rolling bearings which may then also replace the guide rings.

