---

title: Rebroadcasting of advertisements in a social network
abstract: The subject matter of this specification can be embodied in, among other things, a method that receives at a server a first request to rebroadcast a first sponsored content item that was displayed on the social network to the first user to a second user. A second request to display at least one sponsored content item to the second user when the second user accesses an electronic document associated with the social network is received at the server. The first sponsored content item is retrieved for rebroadcast from one or more sponsored content items indicated for rebroadcast to the second user. The first sponsored content item is output to the second user of the social network in response to the second request to display and without requiring the second user to select the first sponsored content item for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342844&OS=09342844&RS=09342844
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09342844
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130711
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 392 033 filed on Feb. 24 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Social networks offer individuals great opportunities to communicate and stay in touch with others. Monetizing the networks and supporting features offered to users however has been historically difficult. Often advertisements are not well targeted to users e.g. ads may be targeted to mostly static profile information which may lead to a static set of ads or a lack of diversity within the shown advertisements . Users typically begin to ignore the advertisements after a period of display. Further advertisers may not receive adequate feedback on the quality of their advertisements.

In general this document describes transmitting or rebroadcasting advertisements from one user of a social network to other users. For example a user may like an advertisement ad and select the ad for rebroadcasting to his or her friends. In this way the display of ads can incorporate a social aspect where users forward ads they think will be particularly relevant or of interest to their friends or other social network users.

One aspect of the disclosure features a computer implemented method that determines for a first user of a social network one or more second users of the social network having an acquaintance relationship with the first user and receives at a server from the first user a first request to rebroadcast a first sponsored content item that was displayed on the social network to the first user to a second user of the determined one or more second users. A second request is received at the server to display at least one sponsored content item to the second user when the second user accesses an electronic document associated with the social network. The first sponsored content item is retrieved for rebroadcast from one or more sponsored content items indicated for rebroadcast to the second user. The first sponsored content item is output to the second user of the social network in response to the second request to display the at least one sponsored content item and without requiring the second user to select the first sponsored content item for display.

Another aspect of the disclosure features a system including one or more servers to receive a request from a first user of a social network to rebroadcast a first sponsored content item that was displayed to the first user to a second user of the social network. The system also includes means for selecting the first sponsored content item from one or more sponsored content items indicated for rebroadcasting to the second user when the second user accesses an electronic document associated with the social network. The system further includes an interface to output the first sponsored content item for viewing by the second user.

Another aspect of the disclosure features a method that receives a generated sponsored content item for initial display to one or more first users of a social network and receives a request from at least a portion of the one or more first users that the sponsored content item be rebroadcast to a second set of users of the social network. The second set of users are related to the portion of first users through acquaintance relationships within the social network. The sponsored content item is output to the second set of users and presented in a format that enables the second set of users and subsequent recipient users to rebroadcast the sponsored content item to other users of the social network.

In some examples the first sponsored content item displayed to the second user further comprises a badge indicating that the first sponsored content item has been rebroadcast by the first user. The badge may be associated with a plurality of indicators that identify users who have rebroadcast the first sponsored content item for display to the second user.

In various examples the first sponsored content item is selected from a plurality of user generated and commercial entity generated sponsored content items.

In some examples the method receives from the second user a third request that the first sponsored content item be rebroadcast to a third user of the social network.

The method in some applications receives from the first user a message to be displayed with the first sponsored content item to the second user.

In various implementations the first request to rebroadcast the first sponsored content item to the second user is part of a request to rebroadcast the first sponsored content item to a group of users of which the second user is a member. In some examples the method outputs the first sponsored content item for display to each other user in the group. In various examples the method determines members of the group based on an identification of users having an acquaintance relationship with the first user. The method refines a selection of the members based on whether the users have interests that are associated with content of the first sponsored content item in some aspects. The method in various examples may determine the interests of the users based on content generated on the social network by the users.

In some examples the method receives an indication that the first user no longer desires to view the first sponsored content item. The indication may be generated based on an express action from the first user indicating that first user is not interested in the first sponsored content item.

In various examples retrieving the first sponsored content item from the one or more sponsored content items includes generating scores for each of the one or more sponsored content items and selecting for retrieval an sponsored content item having a highest ranked score.

In some examples a generated score is based on a first sponsored content item s history of rebroadcasts history of selections by a recipient user history of impressions shown or history of indications that a recipient user is not interested in the sponsored content item. A generated score is based on a second user s history of rebroadcasting the first user s rebroadcasts in some applications. In other applications a generated score is based on history information associated with the first sponsored content item or the first user the history information specific to interactions with the second user or all users.

The method outputs to the first user or to an entity associated with a creation of the first sponsored content item an indication of a penetration of the rebroadcast into the social network in some applications. In some implementations the method outputs to the first user or to an entity associated with a creation of the first sponsored content item an indication of a number of rebroadcasts of the first sponsored content item by other users. In various examples the method outputs to the first user or to an entity associated with a creation of the first sponsored content item an indication of a number of users that indicated a desire to no longer view the first sponsored content item in some applications.

The systems and techniques described here may provide one or more of the following advantages. First an alleviation of ad blindness may be provided. For example users of social networks may begin to ignore ads on social networks after a period of display. The interactive nature of rebroadcasting ads to other users may draw attention to the ads and consequently generate better responses from viewers e.g. click through rates . Another benefit may arise from direct feedback provided to advertisers on which ads are selected by users for rebroadcasting and which are not. An additional benefit may arise from a viral affect where popular ads cascade through the social network generating user interest and creating a buzz. A further benefit is the ability for advertisers to broadcast ads with the social network s own advertising system instead of a complex general advertisement system. Another benefit is that the system may encourage high quality content in ads.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document generally describes a social network where users of the social network can rebroadcast sponsored content items e.g. advertisements or ads that they have viewed to other recipient users. In some implementations a user may view sponsored content items on one or more pages of the social network. A user may select one of the sponsored content items displayed to the user and rebroadcast or electronically distribute the sponsored content item to other recipient users of the social network. For example a user may choose to rebroadcast the sponsored content item to specific users groups of users or networks of users.

In some implementations the sponsored content may include an advertisement for a commercial product or a commercial service. The sponsor of the content may not be a user of the social network. In other implementations the sponsored content may be provided by a user of the social network. The content or advertisement provided by the social network user may be commercial or non commercial in nature.

In some implementations a user rebroadcasting an advertisement i.e. an originating user may not specify recipient users and the social network can automatically determine the recipients. For example the social network may automatically determine that all friends of the originating user e.g. users agreeing to a social network relationship with the originating user should receive the rebroadcast advertisement. Further the social network may automatically determine that all friends of the friends of the originating user should receive the rebroadcast ad. In this implementation the social network may be said to broadcast to the users at a depth of two from the originating user.

In some implementations an originating user may enter a message with a rebroadcast ad for display to recipient users. In other implementations users of the network may trash an ad so that it will no longer appear to them. For example an ad may include a button that when clicked by a user causes the ad to either disappear immediately to not reappear to the user on the social network or to make it less likely that the ad will be shown to either his friends or other users.

The social network may present the rebroadcast ad to the recipient users. A badge may accompany the rebroadcast ad to indicate that the ad was rebroadcast by an originating user. In some implementations the badge may provide indicators of originating users that have selected the ad for rebroadcast to a recipient user. In some implementations recipient users may view a message sent by the originating user. For example the originating user may choose to rebroadcast an ad to recipient users with the message Great Advertisement The rebroadcast ad may then display to the recipient users accompanied by the message Great Advertisement 

Recipient users may repeat the process becoming originating users themselves and rebroadcasting the ad to new recipient users. In some implementations traditional advertising systems may create the content the broadcast ad social networking advertising systems may provide the ad or social network users may create the ad.

A user of the social network may view a page that is associated with user F. This page may display an advertisement . In some implementations a user clicking on the advertisement may prompt a dialog box for rebroadcasting the advertisement to recipient users.

In page is associated with user F. In some implementations this page e.g. an electronic document associated with the social network is a personal page of F that F or other users can view e.g. possibly only users with an acquaintance relationship to F can view the page . A personal page may contain user generated content such as F s picture and a list of F s friends among other personal information. A personal page may also be a page associated with a user but containing content generated by the network. For example the personal page may display recent activity of the user on the social network or include information associated with the user but generated by other users of the social network.

In some implementations page is a page that F may visit. For example page could be a personal page of F but could also be another user s personal page an advertiser s page a page for a group of users or a page for a network of users. In some implementations page resides within a separate associated social network.

Advertisement may include or be associated with interactive portions of page that when selected perform an operation. For example one such interactive portion may be a rebroadcast button that permits an originating user to rebroadcast the advertisement to recipient users. In one implementation clicking the rebroadcast button activates a dialog box . The dialog box may display options for rebroadcasting the advertisement. For example an address field may permit the originating user to select specific recipient users and a message field may permit the originating user to send a message to the recipient users.

In some implementations a message field may permit the originating user F to provide a message to the recipient users. For instance originating user F may provide the message Great Advertisement 

In some implementations the originating user may select as recipient users specific users specific email addresses all users of an originating user created group all users of a voluntarily associated group all users of a network or any combination of the above. For example in address field of social network originating user F is specifically rebroadcasting advertisement to recipient users F and F .

In some implementations an originating user may not specify recipient users and the social network automatically determines the recipients. For example the social network may automatically determine that friends of the originating user and all friends of the friends of the originating user should receive the rebroadcast advertisement. In this implementation the social network may be said to rebroadcast to recipient users to a depth of two from the originating user. In such example in social network users F F F F and F may receive a rebroadcast advertisement to a depth of two from originating user F. Recipient users F and F may be considered at a depth of two while recipient users F F and F may be considered at a depth of one. If for example recipient user F was also connected to originating user F by a link recipient user F may be considered at a depth of one.

In some implementations page includes for example a trash button associated with the advertisement . A user s selection of this button may indicate that the user no longer desires to view the advertisement. The advertisement may then disappear be replaced by another advertisement or remain on the page. The advertisement may then appear with less frequency in the future or never appear again. Trashing may impact the display of advertisements related to the trashed advertisement.

In some implementations the interaction portion of the page may be a link radio button mouse over area or other selectable portion of page or advertisement . In some implementations the interactive portion of the page is selected by clicking with a mouse pointer tapping on a touch screen hovering over a selectable area with a mouse pointer etc. In some implementations the dialog box may be provided as a separate page pop up box drop down dialog box expandable portion of the page etc.

Social network may display advertisement within pages of the social network e.g. page . This advertisement may include text image map sound gadget or video. In some implementations the advertisement includes a headline and a body. For example the headline may display like a news ticker. If a user selects the headline a body may reveal with additional information. In some implementations the advertisement includes a standard 250 250 pixel advertisement block.

In some implementations an advertisement may provide click throughs that stay within the social network. For example a user clicking on an advertisement may be directed to the advertiser s social network page or to a social network group or event. In some implementations the advertisement may provides click throughs that leave the social network for example to an advertiser s website or a third party website. In some implementations an advertisement provides no click throughs but instead may present text a pop up box animation sound etc. upon a user selecting the advertisement.

In some implementations the social network may be represented by a social network graph as discussed previously. The links of the graph may indicate various types of acquaintance relationships between users of a social network. In some implementations the acquaintanceship relationships may be bi lateral relationships. For example two users of the social network may have agreed to be acquaintances of each other or otherwise acknowledged or affirmed an acquaintanceship relationship. The link may indicate that the users have agreed to be social friends. For example one user may request to be the friend of a second user and the second user agrees. In some implementations the links indicate an acquaintance relationship where one user has merely requested to be the friend of another user where one user has sent a message to another user or where one user has viewed the personal page of another user.

Depending upon the acquaintance relationship linked users may access varying levels of information about each other. In some implementations both users may view personal information otherwise not shared with other users of the social network. Social network and social network graph present example representations of acquaintance relationships in a social network. For example a social network may contain more than six users users of a social network may have more than three friends and the number of depths may reach past two. In some implementations an acquaintanceship relationship may be a unilateral relationship. For example a user of the social network may have requested to be an acquaintance of or sent a message to another user that has not otherwise acknowledged an acquaintanceship between the two users.

The social network represented by nodal representation may reside within operate on or be accessed by server . It is understood that this server is only shown as a single device for illustrative purposes and may consist of numerous such devices.

In some implementations a badge may accompany advertisement that indicates that the advertisement was rebroadcast by one or more originating users. For example advertisement may display an expand button that is not present in advertisement of . In some implementations the badge may indicate which originating users have selected the advertisement for rebroadcast to a recipient user. For example rebroadcast list may indicate that user F and user F rebroadcast advertisement to user F.

In some implementations the badge may include or be associated with an interactive portion of page . For example clicking the expand button activates a dialog box . The dialog box may display a rebroadcasting list of users that rebroadcast to the recipient user the advertisement . In some implementations the page or dialog box may contain messages from one or more originating users. For example message in rebroadcasting list may be from user F and the same as message in .

In some implementations advertisement may include or be associated with a rebroadcast button similar to rebroadcast button . In some implementations advertisement may include or be associated with a trash button similar to trash button of . Pages and advertisements may contain functions and buttons similar to page and advertisement . Pages and may contain functions and buttons similar to page of .

In some implementations recipient users may repeat the entire process becoming originating users themselves and rebroadcasting the advertisement to new recipient users. For example recipient user F may rebroadcast to other social network users the advertisement rebroadcast by originating user F effectively making user F an originating user.

In box a determination is made whether a user request is received to rebroadcast an advertisement to one or more recipient users e.g. the user s friends . For example user F in may see an advertisement that he likes. The user F can select the rebroadcast button to rebroadcast the advertisement to other users. The server can detect the selection of the rebroadcast button and forward the advertisement to web pages that the users F F and F are viewing or may view in the future. If no request is received the process ends. If a request is received the process performs the operation of box .

In box a determination is made whether a request from a recipient user is received to display an advertisement. For example the social network in may receive a request from user F to display an advertisement on page . This may be an implicit request generated when a user F accesses page or the page being viewed by user F reloads or refreshes If no request is received the process performs the operation of box . If a request is received the process performs the operation of box . In some implementations the operation of box may wait until all recipient users request an advertisement before performing the operation of box .

In box an advertisement is retrieved from a plurality of advertisements that are marked for rebroadcast to the recipient user that requested to display an advertisement. For example advertisement in may be marked by user Fl for rebroadcast to user F and added to the plurality of advertisements marked for display. Further user F may mark a second advertisement not shown for rebroadcast to user F and similarly added to the plurality. One or more advertisements may then be retrieved from the plurality of advertisements.

In box the retrieved advertisement is displayed on the recipient user s page. For example advertisement in may be displayed on page of user F . In some implementations a first retrieved advertisement may be displayed for 10 seconds and then rotated with a second retrieved advertisement.

The user terminal may display to a user of a social network one or more pages of the social network. For example the user F in may use terminal of to access the social network and view page .

The user terminal may communicate with a social network frontend server to receive portions of a page of the social network. For example the portions of the page may include a picture of a user and a list of the user s friends. If for example the user F in accessed the social network through user terminal the user terminal may receive from the social network frontend server picture and friends list among other portions of the page . In some implementations the social network frontend server serves gadgets such as mini xml based applications that display content and allow a user to interact with the content. The gadgets for example may be used to display advertisements and permit users to rebroadcast the same.

In some implementations the user terminal may communicate with a broadcast frontend server to receive one or more advertisements. For example the user terminal may send a HTTP request for an advertisement to broadcast frontend server . The broadcast frontend server may communicate with two systems an unpaid advertisement broadcast system and a paid advertisement broadcast system to retrieve one or more advertisements. For example the broadcast frontend server may request an advertisement from either or both the unpaid advertisement broadcast system and the paid advertisement broadcast system .

In selecting whether to show a paid or unpaid advertisement the determination may be based upon a weight quality or relevance of the received advertisements. For example an advertisement may have a greater weight if the content is time critical or the advertisement will bring in greater revenue. The advertisement may have a greater quality if it has been rebroadcast several times. The advertisement may have a greater relevance if the user has rebroadcast similar advertisements in the past or users with similar preferences have rebroadcast the message. In some implementations the broadcast frontend server may provide both paid and unpaid advertisements or alternate between the two types of advertisements.

In some implementations an interface may be used to display the advertisements e.g. an http or a TCP IP interface used to transmit the advertisement for display . The interface may implement any application programming interface API or communication protocol. For example the interface may implement the OpenSocial API. A gadget that displays advertisements may use the OpenSocial API to get information from the social network. The information may include friend lists links to friends profile pages friend s profile picture etc.

In some implementations the unpaid advertisement broadcast system may include a social advertisements mixer server and one or more databases e.g. databases and . The social advertisements mixer server may provide unpaid advertisements to a broadcast frontend server for eventual display to a social network user on user terminal . The advertisements provided by the social advertisements mixer server may originate from users of the social network and may be broadcast or rebroadcast to other users of the social network. In some implementations the social advertisements mixer server may retrieve eligible advertisements rank them based upon data in the databases and return the highest ranked advertisement. The server may also record interaction statistics e.g. click through rates and store new unpaid advertisements.

In some implementations the social advertisements mixer server may interact with one or more databases for storing the advertisements and statistics on the advertisements use. For example the social advertisements mixer server may interact with a graph targeting database a relationship database a reputation database a content database a history database and a depth database . The databases may include history information and the server may use information in the databases to generate a score for one or more advertisements or broadcasters of the advertisement. An advertisement with the highest score may be displayed to a user requesting display of an advertisement. The score may be specific to interactions between the user requesting display of an advertisement and an advertisement or advertisement s broadcaster. The score may be a global score not specific to interactions with the user requesting display of an advertisement. In some implementations the score of an advertisement and a broadcaster of the advertisement may be combined.

In some implementations the graph targeting database may store a simple queue of reverse chronological advertisement broadcast identifications. In response to a social network user lookup the database may provide the most recent advertisements rebroadcast to the user by other users.

In some implementations the relationship database may accumulate counts of broadcast interactions between every pair of social network users as a proxy for the strength of their relationship. In other implementations the relationship database may store acquaintance relationship information such as information about friendship status between users of interactions between users e.g. the number of times a user viewed another user s profile whether one user sent or posted content to another user etc. whether users have common acquaintances whether users belong to the same or similar groups etc.

In some implementations the reputation database may accumulate global interaction counts for each user. The reputation database may serve as a roll up of the relationship database and may to indicate how influential a person is among his acquaintances.

In some implementations the content database may contain broadcast content and interactions. For example the database can include advertisements display information information about the number of times the advertisement is selected for rebroadcasting and to and from whom the advertisement is rebroadcast.

In some implementations the history database may contain a user s previous interactions with every broadcast or rebroadcast advertisement displayed to him.

In some implementations the depth database may contain statistics on the depth of advertisement penetration through the network. For instance the database may be indexed by a user identification number and contain counts on the interactions at every depth for advertisements broadcast or rebroadcast by a respective user. In some implementations the databases and include or are data stores data layers or tables.

In some implementations the paid advertisement broadcast system may include a paid advertisements frontend server an advertiser terminal an advertisements database and numerous servers providing specific services such as servers and which are each discussed in greater detail below.

The paid advertisements server may receive a request from the broadcast frontend server to provide advertisements and in return provides the advertisements to the broadcast frontend server .

In some implementations the paid advertisements frontend server communicates with additional servers to determine which advertisements to provide to the broadcast frontend server . For example the paid advertisement frontend server may communicate with a central advertisements server that communicates with several additional servers to determine one or more advertisements to provide to the frontend server . An eligibility server may provide a list of advertisements eligible for broadcast to the social network user at user terminal . For example eligible advertisements may have size requirements e.g. 250 250 pixels and content requirements e.g. no animation .

A user backend server may provide information about specific users. This information may include a specific user s history of rebroadcasting or trashing advertisements. An advertisement database may provide statistical information about users and advertisements in addition to that provided by user backend server . The advertisement database may hold the information described in relation to databases or . One or more of the servers contained within the paid advertisement broadcast system may communicate with the advertisement database .

An advertisement provider server may store and provide the requested advertisements. For example central advertisement server may weigh the list of advertisements provided by eligibility server and may request the chosen one or more advertisements from advertisement provider server . The central advertisement server may then receive from server the requested advertisement and provide it to server for eventual forwarding to the broadcast frontend server .

In some implementations an advertiser uses an advertiser terminal for requesting a broadcast of one or more paid advertisements on the social network. For example the advertiser terminal may communicate with a paid social advertisement frontend server that provides information and a page to the advertiser for purchasing the broadcast of advertisements on the social network. The paid social advertisement frontend server may communicate with the advertisement database to complete the purchasing and to provide information to the paid advertisement broadcast system to perform the broadcast of advertisements.

In some implementations the advertisements provided by the paid advertisement broadcast system originate from a general advertising system e.g. a non social network specific advertising system that also broadcasts advertisements on pages that are not specific to the social network . In some implementations the functions performed by a server in social network may be performed by more than one server. Further the functions performed by several servers in social network may be performed by a single server. One skilled in the art would recognize numerous possibilities for providing the functions recited above.

In various implementations a gadget served by the social network frontend server may display advertisements and receive requests for advertisements. The gadget may forward these requests to the broadcast front end the unpaid advertisement broadcast system or the paid advertisement broadcast system for the operations described above.

In box a user terminal loads a page of a social network from a social network frontend server. For example the user terminal of the system in may request that the social network frontend server provide a page of a social network. This page may provide information about a user of the social network be customized by the user and may include an ability to chat with the user.

In box a determination is made whether a broadcast frontend server receives a request to provide an advertisement to the user terminal. For example the user terminal in may load most of a page of a social network from the social network frontend server . The user terminal may not load an advertisement from the social network frontend server and may request this advertisement from the broadcast frontend server . If no request is received the process ends. If a request is received the process performs the operation of box .

In box the broadcast frontend server requests one or more advertisements. In some implementations the frontend server requests a paid advertisement in other implementations server requests unpaid advertisements and in still other implementations the server requests both paid and unpaid advertisements. If the request is for paid advertisements the operations of boxes may be performed. If the request is for unpaid advertisements the operations of boxes may be performed. The operation starting at boxes and may run concurrently.

In box the social advertiser mixer server has received the request for an advertisement and runs an auction among one or more advertisements. The one or more advertisements may include advertisements targeted to a requesting user. For example the social advertising mixer server in receives a request for an advertisement and runs an auction among one or more advertisements to determine which one or more advertisements to provide to the broadcast frontend server . For example the auction may take into account the information of the databases and in determining the winning advertisement or advertisements of the auction. The auction may provide to a user of terminal an advertisement rebroadcast by another user where the other user s advertisements have been rebroadcast frequently by the user of terminal . The auction may instead provide to the user of terminal the first advertisement that was rebroadcast to the user by another user of the social network.

In box the social advertisement mixer server provides to the broadcast frontend server the winning one or more social advertisements from the auction. For example the social advertisement mixer server in may provide a winning advertisement to the broadcast frontend server .

In box a paid advertisement frontend server receives the request for an advertisement and requests that a central advertisement server provide an advertisement. For example the paid advertisement frontend server of the system in may receive a request from the broadcast frontend server to provide it one 250 250 pixel graphic advertisement and one 120 character or less text advertisement. The paid advertisement frontend server then passes this information on to the central advertisement server and requests appropriate advertisements.

In box the central advertisement server selects an advertisement from a plurality of advertisements using user and advertisement statistics. For example the central advertisement server of may send the request for one 250 250 pixel advertisement and one character or less text advertisement to the eligibility server . The eligibility server which has been updated with information from the advertisement database may return a list of suitable graphic advertisements and a list of suitable text advertisements. The central advertisement server may then weight the lists of received advertisements or run an auction using statistics on the advertisement from the advertisement database and statistics on the user of terminal from the user backend server . The central advertisement server selects a winning graphic advertisement and a winning text advertisement. An actual content of the winning advertisements may be requested and received from an advertisement provider server .

In box the central advertisement server provides the selected one or more advertisements from the plurality of advertisements to the paid advertisements frontend server which then provides the advertisements to the broadcast frontend server. For example central advertisement server in may provide the winning graphic advertisement and the winning text advertisement to the paid advertisement frontend server which would then provide the same advertisements to the broadcast frontend server .

Although not shown auctions may be run that include both paid and unpaid advertisements. The unpaid advertisements may be assigned a default bid. An unpaid advertisement with a default bid lower than the bid for a paid advertisement may still win an auction. For example an unpaid advertisement with a default bit of 0.06 may win over a paid advertisement with a bid of 0.09 if the unpaid advertisement was broadcast or rebroadcast by a user with an acquaintance relationship to the recipient user the acquaintances of the recipient user have clicked through the unpaid advertisement or the recipient user has rebroadcast or clicked through similar unpaid advertisements. Similar bid modifications may occur for paid advertisements as well.

In box a determination is made whether the broadcast frontend server selects the one or more unpaid advertisements from the advertisements received from the social advertisements mixer server and the paid advertisement frontend server. For example the broadcast frontend server of may receive a graphic and text advertisement from the social advertisements mixer and a graphic and text advertisement from the paid advertisement frontend server . If the broadcast frontend server selects an advertisement from the social advertisements mixer server then the operation of box is performed.

If the broadcast frontend server does not select the advertisement from the social advertisements mixer server i.e. the broadcast frontend server selects the advertisement from the paid advertisement frontend server then the operation of box is performed. For example the broadcast frontend server in may select the graphic advertisement from the social advertisements mixer server because the advertisement has been rebroadcast by more users than the graphic advertisement provided by the paid advertisement frontend server . The broadcast frontend server may however select the text advertisement from the paid advertisement frontend server for similar reasons.

In box the user terminal displays the one or more advertisements received from the broadcast frontend server for display to a user terminal. For example the user terminal in may receive and display the unpaid graphic advertisement and the paid text advertisement on the same page to a user of terminal .

In some implementations page may be an example of page in . The first advertisement may be an example of advertisement rebroadcast button may be an example of rebroadcast button trash button may be an example of trash button and badge may be an example of badge . The second advertisement and the buttons and may serve similar functions.

For example a user desiring to broadcast an advertisement into the network may enter a desired headline for the advertisement in field and a desired body in field . The user may attach various images or interactive components to the advertisement using an attachment selector . For example a user may enter no additional information to the advertisement may attach an image display a video include a map display an event or incorporate a community into the advertisement. The user may broadcast the advertisement by selecting the send button .

A headline body and attachment corresponding to the information of fields and and attachment selector may appear in the example advertisement . The example advertisement may display a picture of the user broadcasting the advertisement.

The advertisement may appear on page as to recipient users on page of or page of . The broadcast advertisement may or may not include a badge indicating that the message has been broadcast. In some implementations the broadcast advertisement may be unpaid. The page may be a separate page of a social network or may be a pop up or dialog box presented on a social network.

The general statistics may include an indicator of how may advertisements a user has rebroadcast a total number of recipient users that viewed the user s broadcast advertisements a number of times recipient users trashed the broadcast advertisements and a number of times recipient users rebroadcast the advertisement originally broadcast by the user.

In some implementations the page may include an indication of how deep a broadcast has penetrated or spread among users of a social network e.g. broadcast spread info . For example the per broadcast spread information may include information about different broadcast penetrations for advertisements a user has sent e.g. an advertisement for Gustavo and the Streamrollers for Gustavo and the beer event and Gustavo s YouTube video . The information about broadcast may include an identifier of an advertisement that is the subject of the broadcast . The identifier may include the headline and body information input into fields or of for a particular broadcast. The information about broadcast may include a number of times an associated broadcast advertisement was rebroadcast and a number of times the associated broadcast advertisement was trashed .

In some implementations the information about broadcast may include depth information . The depth information may indicate the depth an advertisement has penetrated during broadcast e.g. the degree of separation from an originating node and the number of rebroadcasts at each depth. For example broadcast may have been broadcast to sixty recipient users at a depth of one degree of separation from the broadcasting node ninety five recipients at a depth of two one hundred and two recipients at a depth of three thirty one recipients at a depth of four and no recipients at a depth of five .

A depth can indicate a number of associations required to reach a user of the social network from an originating node of the broadcast advertisement. For example the users at a depth of one may include the users that have an acquaintance relationship with the originating user. The users at a depth of two may indicate users that have an acquaintance relationship with the users at a depth of one and are not the users at a depth of one e.g. friends of friends .

Users that rebroadcast advertisements may view a page to view information on the rebroadcast advertisements. The page may include information similar to general statistics and spread information but for advertisements that a user rebroadcast. Page can also include information about unpaid advertisements. In other implementations page includes implementations about paid advertisements.

In some implementations the page may report a number of selections of the advertisement by recipient users not displayed . Such selections or clicks may result in the recipient user viewing a broadcasting user s profile page or an advertisement s landing page.

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . The processor may be designed using any of a number of architectures. For example the processor may be a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computers processor a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer processor or a MISC Minimal Instruction Set Computer processor.

In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN peer to peer networks having ad hoc or static members grid computing infrastructures and the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. For example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

