---

title: Method for manufacturing a carbon nanotube field emission device with overhanging gate
abstract: A carbon nanotube field emission device with overhanging gate fabricated by a double silicon-on-insulator process. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08916394&OS=08916394&RS=08916394
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08916394
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130617
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 564 filed Jun. 17 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 936 049 filed 18 Jun. 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 008 034 filed 18 Dec. 2007.

The invention claimed herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

The present invention relates to electronic devices and fabrication technology and more particularly to field emission devices with carbon nanotubes.

Field emission devices cathodes serve as a source of electrons and are of use in various scientific and medical fields. Such applications may include sterilization systems gas ionization systems e.g. mass spectrometry klystrons flat panel displays cathode ray tubes scanning electron microscopes transmission electron microscopes and energy dispersive x ray analysis to name a few. As another example by radiating a target with an accelerated electron beam field emission devices may be used as a source of x rays. In many applications it is desirable that field emission devices provide a relatively high electron flux with relatively low power consumption are stable with a long life and which may be efficiently manufactured.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

For some embodiments the gate diameter the diameter of the hole at layer is in the neighborhood of 25 microns the depth of buried insulator layer is in the neighborhood of 0.5 microns the depth of buried insulator layer is in the neighborhood of 1 microns the depth of silicon device layer is in the neighborhood of 9 microns and the depth of silicon device layer is in the neighborhood of 2 microns. Although not shown in silicon device layer may be covered with a silicon dioxide layer having a depth in the neighborhood of 0.2 microns. Carbon nanotubes labeled in may actually each comprise a bundle of carbon nanotubes where for some embodiments the diameter of a carbon nanotube bundle is in the neighborhood of 2 microns and the typical spacing between carbon nanotube bundles is in the neighborhood of 5 microns. The separation between the gate and the nearest carbon nanotube bundles may be in the neighborhood of 1 2 4 or 8 microns for example.

Although it is difficult to see from the perspective of but shown in the perspective of there is an undercut so that the gate as defined by the hole at layer hangs over that part of silicon layer . forming a sidewall of the hole. For some embodiments this undercut may be on the order of 10 microns. This undercut will be made clearer when considering the other drawings.

These dimensions cited above are provided only as an example of an embodiment where other embodiments may have different sized layers gates undercuts and carbon nanotube intra bundle spacing and size.

In practice wafer is much larger than the hole illustrated in but the rectangular section of wafer illustrated in is used to provide a perspective illustration of silicon substrate buried insulator layers and and silicon device layers and . Imagining that the surface of layer in is substantially a plane the perspective illustrated in is from a direction that forms an oblique angle to this plane so that the hole formed in wafer appears oval even though it may be circular in some embodiments. A slice through the embodiment of taken perpendicular to this plane and taken along a diameter of the hole in wafer yields the perspective provided in . As with respect to the perspective provided in is simplified to illustrate an embodiment where various components of the embodiment are not illustrated to scale. The perspective in shows silicon substrate layer buried insulator layer silicon device layer buried insulator layer and silicon device layer . Also shown are carbon nanotubes . The array of carbon nanotubes may not necessarily be a regularly spaced array. In practice carbon nanotubes may vary in height within a particular embodiment and well in general not be linear cylinders as shown in the simplified illustration of .

In step photoresist layer has been formed and patterned on silicon device layer by well known lithographic techniques. Silicon layer is etched by deep reactive ion etching DRIE and photoresist layer is removed resulting in step . In step buried insulator layer has been etched by a hydrofluoric IV acid solution. The wafer is then thermally oxidized to passivate all exposed silicon surfaces with silicon dioxide layer including the exposed sidewalls as indicated in step .

As illustrated in step photoresist layer has been applied and patterned by well known lithographic techniques and a hole is opened into thermal silicon dioxide layer by reactive ion etching RIE as shown in step . Silicon device layer is then etched by DRIE as illustrated in step . The wafer is then etched with xenon difluoride XeF as illustrated in step . XeFreacts only with exposed silicon and does not damage other materials such as photoresist and SiO. As shown in step the silicon etch front propagates laterally. A portion of buried insulator layer is removed by RIE as shown in step . As shown in step photo resist layer is removed and the thermal silicon dioxide layer grown in step is removed by HF.

As indicated in step photo resist layer is applied and patterned at the bottom of the hole on silicon substrate as shown. This pattern allows a catalyst dot array pattern to be applied to the bottom of the hole on silicon substrate as shown in step where photoresist layer has been removed. For some embodiments the catalyst may be iron Fe with a thickness of 25 Angstroms. Under the Fe there is a 30 Angstrom thick Aluminum oxide layer that serves as a diffusion barrier. Both Fe and Si inter diffuse at the elevated temperature used for carbon nanotube growth. Carbon nanotubes are then grown on the catalyst dot array as shown in step .

Some embodiments may use drain holes formed near the gate electrodes the portion of silicon device layer that overhangs sidewall silicon device layer at the top of the etched hole to allow excess photoresist at the bottom of the hole to be spun out by centrifugal force. An embodiment is illustrated in . For ease of illustration not all layers in wafer are shown in . Four drain holes are illustrated in pointed to by arrows labeled . The perspective of is oblique to the plane defined by silicon device see but the planes so defined are shown in as slightly tilted to reveal some of the structure. Holes show three steps leading from silicon device layer to the top of silicon device layer . Two of the steps are labeled A and B which may comprise silicon device layer . In some of the holes it is difficult to show buried insulator layer and top silicon device layer .

When photoresist material is applied to the bottom of the hole as in step of it may be confined due to the overhanging gate. During spin coating the centrifugal force may not be sufficient to cause excess photoresist material to flow out from the hole because some of the photoresist may be trapped under the gate overhang. This may result in the photoresist in the hole becoming too thick for lithographical pattern transfer. However illustrates a process to manufacture a field emission carbon nanotube device in which step . in has been modified. In step of photoresist material of relatively high viscosity is applied to the wafer where arrow pictorially represents this high viscosity photoresist material flowing across the hole opening so as to form a bridge across the opening. In step of the wafer is spun so that the high viscosity photoresist material forms into a membrane of relatively uniform thickness. Photoresist membrane is then patterned to provide openings so that catalyst material may be applied through these openings to fall to the bottom of the hole and form an array of catalyst dots. In this way the embodiment of avoids problems associated with applying photoresist material to the bottom of the hole. During the following soft bake of the photoresist the trapped air undergoes a volumetric expansion due to the applied heat and the photoresist membrane solidifies with a slight upward bulge of roughly 5 to 10 microns in size. 

A particular photoresist material that may be used is known as AZ4330RS a product of Clariant Corporation AZ Electronic Materials with U.S. headquarters in Somerville N.J.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

