---

title: Method and system for improving the efficiency of state information transfer over a wireless communications network
abstract: The present invention is directed to a system and method for managing state information related to an interactive application to accommodate one or more users participating in an interactive application session, wherein the state information comprises local state information specific to each of the one or more user's unique view of the interactive application and global state information. The system of the present invention may comprise a telecommunications network; an application server in communication with the telecommunications network for managing the global state information relative to all of the users participating in the interactive application session; and at least one mobile client device in communication with the application server over the telecommunications network for managing the local state information for each of the one or more users. The method of the present invention may comprise the steps of structuring the state information for optimized delivery over the telecommunications network; and transferring the state information over the telecommunications network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112893&OS=09112893&RS=09112893
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09112893
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 237 770 filed Sep. 20 2011 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF STATE INFORMATION TRANSFER OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK now U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 829 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 537 205 file Aug. 6 2009 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF STATE INFORMATION TRANSFER OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK now U.S. Pat. No. 8 024 434 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 200 599 filed Aug. 10 2005 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF STATE INFORMATION TRANSFER OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK now U.S. Pat. No. 7 574 493 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 885 977 filed Jun. 22 2001 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF STATE INFORMATION TRANSFER OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK now U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 761 which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 60 283 381 filed Apr. 13 2001 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF STATE INFORMATION TRANSFER OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORK U.S. Patent Application No. 60 276 056 filed Mar. 16 2001 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONTENT DISTRIBUTION OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM and U.S. Patent Application No. 60 252 468 filed Nov. 22 2000 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE SERVICES OVER A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK the benefit of and priority to which are claimed thereof and the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a system and method for improving the efficiency of state information transfer over a network. In particular the present invention preferably relates to optimizing the structure and method of transmission of degrees of freedom information in a multi player interactive game over a wireless communications network.

Online entertainment has been popular for several years. Typically users connect to the Internet through their desktop computers and enjoy computer hosted games ranging. from simple board games like backgammon to more complex and graphic intensive adventure games. Recently developments in technology have enabled users to engage in multi player interactive gaming sessions with other users who may be scattered across the globe. The ability to play a game with friends and even strangers who are not similarly located creates an exciting outlet for gaming aficionados.

Although in its infancy interactive gaming has become available to users over a wireless network. Using their mobile handset as a game controller users play games with other players not in their area without being tied down to their desktop computer. The thrill of interactive gaming coupled with the convenience of being able to play anywhere through your mobile handset makes wireless interactive gaming a very exciting and potentially profitable opportunity for operators of wireless networks.

Interactive gaming over a wireless network however is not without its disadvantages. Latency and data transmission delays create performance issues when gaming over any network but are especially troublesome over wireless communication networks. Many known systems attempt to solve latency issues by offering only simplistic games with no or low quality graphics that are unaffected by communication delays. These systems however significantly depreciate the user s gaming experience. In addition many known wireless interactive gaming systems are not truly interactive and require users to actually be within a certain range from one another. Other known systems tax network capacity and waste network resources to such a degree that network operators must charge users prohibitively high service fees to avoid significant losses.

Others have attempted to provide multi player interactive gaining over a network. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 050 898 to Vange et al. discloses a computer based interactive gaming system that uses a method for initiating and scaling a massive concurrent data transaction. Vange discloses a system and method for optimizing the transmission of computer hosted game information over a telecommunications link such as the Internet.

European Patent Application No. 00660125.6 filed by Nokia Corporation discloses a multi player game system using a mobile telephone and game unit. The application discloses using a mobile phone to download a game to separate game units and linking the multiple users using a low power radio link.

European Patent Application No. 00660161.1 filed by Nokia Corporation discloses a system for profiling mobile station activity in a predictive command wireless game system. The application discloses a system and method for customizing an interactive text based game based on mobile station activity.

Although many of the prior known gaming systems claim to offer an enhanced interactive gaming experience none of the prior known systems of which the present inventors are aware offer 1 a fully interactive gaming experience 2 50310 00683 over a truly wireless network 3 with high resolution graphics 4 while efficiently using network resources and 5 offering those services at a low fixed monthly service charge that is not based on minutes of use.

The present invention addresses the problem of how to deliver an enhanced interactive game experience efficiently and cost effectively. In particular the system and method of the present invention offers a real time interactive experience and improves control over the transfer of game state information. Preferably by controlling degrees of freedom information and managing the network traffic more efficiently than prior known systems the present invention conserves network capacity and offers the network operator cost savings advantages. This enables the operator to provide a more enhanced interactive gaming experience with the same amount of network resources. This also creates the possibility of providing a wireless game service to end users at a flat monthly rate rather than on a Viper unit of time basis. In this regard the present invention is preferably adapted to the pricing model of Assignee s Cricket wireless telecommunications services.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to overcome shortcomings of prior known interactive gaming systems.

It is another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention to improve the efficiency of transfer of state information for interactive wireless services.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to improve the quality of wireless interactive gaming systems.

A further object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to reduce the operations cost of delivering interactive applications over a wireless communications network.

An additional object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to reduce the degree to which interactive wireless services are network dependent.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to reduce the degree to which interactive wireless services are time of day dependent.

A further object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to increase the availability of interactive wireless services.

An additional object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to more efficiently use network capacity for interactive wireless gaming applications.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to reduce the cost of bandwidth used to deliver interactive services.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to manage degrees of freedom necessary to render an interactive application on a personal handheld device and on network server components in order to reduce wireless communications traffic required to operate the interactive application.

An additional object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to adapt the wireless transmissions between the network and the personal device to reduce latency.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to minimize the amount of information transmitted between the network and the personal client access device in order to update the state of the interactive application.

A further object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to limit the latency of the response of an interactive application.

A further object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to provide interactive services at a cost that varies as a function of available bandwidth or other network resources.

Yet another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to increase the perceived speed of interactive use.

An additional object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to reduce the differences in latency between users of the interactive service.

Another object of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is to achieve a consistent level of latency between users of the interactive service.

A further object of the present invention is to create an even Playing field for interactive services.

An additional object of the present invention is to provide a more cost effective way to deliver interactive services to end users.

Additional objects and advantages of the invention are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention will be realized in detail by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

As illustrated in the accompanying diagrams and disclosed in the accompanying claims the present invention is a system for defining interpreting and managing state information related to an interactive application to accommodate one or more users participating in an interactive application session. The present invention preferably comprises a communications network one or more client access devices and server means adapted to manage degrees of freedom of an interactive application or service. The communications network preferably is a wireless communications network further comprising at least one base station at least one base station controller and at least one mobile switching center.

In a preferred embodiment the system of the present invention comprises a wireless communications network an application server in communication with said wireless communications network for managing the global state information relative to all of the users participating in the interactive application session and at least one mobile client device in communication with said application server over said wireless communications network for managing the local state information.

In an alternate preferred embodiment the present invention comprises an interactive application server for managing global state information related to an interactive application relative to local state information received from one or more mobile client devices over a wireless communications network during an interactive application session. The server preferably comprises communication means for receiving the local state information from the one or more mobile client devices global modeler means for comparing the received local state information with the global state information to produce updated information and updating the global state information with the updated information and server state manager means for structuring the updated state information for optimized delivery over the wireless communications network wherein said communication means delivers the updated state information to said one or more mobile client devices. The server state manager preferably structures the updated state information based on degrees of freedom associated with the interactive application.

In an alternate preferred embodiment the present invention is a mobile client device for managing local state information related to an interactive application relative to global state information maintained by an application server during an interactive application session between one or more users over a wireless communications network. The mobile client device of the present invention preferably comprises local modeler means for comparing the local state information to the global state information wherein the differences between the local state information and the global state information comprise changed state information client state manager means for structuring the changed state information for optimized delivery over the wireless communications network synchronization means for synchronizing the changed state information relative to the global state information and communication means for delivering the changed state information to the application server. The client state manager preferably structures the changed state information based upon degrees of freedom associated with the interactive application. The mobile client device of the present invention preferably further comprises memory means for storing the interactive application and input output means for interfacing with the interactive application.

As embodied herein the present invention preferably further comprises a method and system for improving the management of state information transfer for an interactive application over a wireless communications network. The present invention preferably comprises a method and system for determining the instruction set necessary to render the interactive application determining degrees of freedom based on that instruction set reducing either the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom to the minimal number of degrees of freedom and or instructions necessary to render the interactive application and synchronizing the users with respect to one another and with respect to the interactive application.

As embodied herein the instruction set is preferably determined based upon a number of parameters comprising one or more of the following the features and characteristics of the wireless access device the version of the interactive application the user preferences and or characteristics the control protocols and methodologies employed and the features and characteristics of the interactive application.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the degrees of freedom are determined based upon a number of factors comprising one or more of the following degrees of freedom may be layered to enhance the efficiency of the state information transfer a metaset of degrees of freedom may be employed to compile various subroutines needed to perform various actions in the interactive application sheets could be reduced to a single or a limited number of degrees of freedom degrees of freedom could encompass single or multiple actions of the characters of the interactive application actions could be combined as many degrees of freedom be combined to an additional degree of freedom degrees of freedom coding for various functions could be grouped or broken out as appropriate to provide flexibility as well as efficiency in updating state information and special degrees of freedom could be created specifically for certain complex actions in the game that would otherwise require the transfer of substantial state information over the air interface.

Degrees of freedom may also be set subject to limits. Limits may be independent based upon rules for the interactive application or determined based upon various features of the system such as features of the wireless communications network the application or the users access device. Degrees of freedom may also be device specific such as graphics sounds scents temperature vibrations force or other physical properties. The degrees of freedom may also be modified based upon features that will improve the efficiency of use of the air interface such as adjusting the frame rate frame size data rate and packet definition. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention degrees of freedom may also be determined based upon the functionality of projectiles employed in the interactive application.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom are reduced to enhance the efficiency of the transfer of state information over the air interface. This can be accomplished either by reducing the initial instruction set to the minimum required before mapping degrees of freedom or by determining degrees of freedom based on a preferred instruction set and then reducing the degrees of freedom to the minimum required to provide the desired functionality of the interactive application. Further the system and users are preferably synchronized.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated herein by reference and constitute a part of the specification illustrate certain embodiments of the invention and together with the detailed description serve to explain the principles of the present invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to a preferred embodiment of the system and method of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. An embodiment of the interactive application system of the present invention is shown in . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the interactive application carried out on the system is an interactive game adapted to be played by one or more users.

As depicted in the present invention is adapted for use in conjunction with a telecommunications network at least one mobile game client in communication with the telecommunications network and a mobile game server in communication with the telecommunications network . As embodied herein degree of freedom management means and cooperate with one or both of the mobile game client and the mobile game server to manage degrees of freedom information of an interactive application.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention as shown in the telecommunications network is a wireless communications network. Other suitable embodiments of the telecommunications network of the present invention include but are not limited to Plain Old Telephone Service POTS Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Lines ASDL any of various other types of Digital Subscriber Lines xDSQ Public Land Mobile Network PLMN the Internet cellular Global System Mobile GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Infrared Data Association IrDA Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Enhanced Data Rates for Global or GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Ricochet proprietary wireless packet network wireless local loop WLL Wireless Local Area Network WLAN 802.11 infrared Bluetooth Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN Optical Line of Sight satellite based systems Cable User Datagram Protocol UDP SIVIR walkie talkies any portion of the unlicensed spectrum wireline networks and or any other suitable telecommunications network . Any communications network is considered to be within the scope of the present invention provided it is adapted to render the interactive application to the user as described herein.

The interactive system of the present invention is preferably adapted for use in conjunction with a wireless communications network that is data capable as opposed to a first generation cellular voice only network. The present inventors anticipate that the wireless network is preferably based upon PCS TDMA CDMA CDPD CDMAone or any other suitable technology ies or standard s that are data capable.

The wireless communications network further comprises at least one base station BTSs at least one base station controller BSC and at least one mobile switching center MSC . Each base station includes a transceiver capable of transmitting signals to and receiving signals from the mobile game clients . In addition as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art each base station is connected through the BSC to the MSC . The MSC is in communication with the mobile game server through the IWF . The IWF includes as is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the necessary equipment and conversion algorithms to permit seamless communication between the MSC and the mobile game server despite potentially dissimilar protocols supporting each of those components. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the IWF comprises an L interface. Accordingly the wireless communications network is adapted to allow communication between the mobile game clients and the mobile game server .

It will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill that various modifications and variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For example the mobile game server could be deployed as a separate server component or as a server farm. Alternatively the mobile game server and the functions it performs could be incorporated in any suitable location in the network . Thus it is intended that the invention cover the variations and modifications of the invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

Alternative preferred embodiments of the system of the present invention are shown in and . As shown in and the present invention comprises the network at least one mobile game client and the mobile game server . In alternative preferred embodiment of the present invention the mobile game client further comprises an operating system the client communication means a client system clock the client session management means and a client application API . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the client session management means of the present invention further comprises a game application a client memory means a local modeling means and the client degree of freedom DOF management means .

In an alternate preferred embodiment of the present invention as shown in the mobile game server further comprises an operating system the server communication means a server synchronization means the server session management means and a server application programming interface API . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the server session management means further comprises a host game an object library cooperating with the host game a global modeling means for reconciling the state of the application between all users and the application and the server degree of freedom DOF management means .

As embodied herein the mobile game client is any user device that is adapted to interface with the wireless communications network to provide a multi player interactive game. In a preferred embodiment the mobile game client is a mobile phone. Other embodiments of the mobile game client include without limitation personal digital assistant PDA pager wireless game controller and or an email device. These types of variations are considered well within the scope of the present invention.

With reference to a preferred embodiment of the mobile game client will now be described in detail. The mobile game client preferably comprises the operating system the client communication means the client synchronization means the client session management means the client application programming interface API and client input output means not shown for interacting with the game player. The client input output means may include for example a mobile phone keypad headphones earphones cables joysticks paddles cameras microphones and or speakers. As will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the client API preferably further comprises the necessary routines protocols and tools to enable the components of the mobile game client to interact and to enable operation within the wireless network . The mobile game client communicates with the wireless communications network over a wireless connection protocol .

As shown in the mobile game client includes the operating system . The operating system is any platform capable of supporting the multi player interactive gaming system of the present invention such as for example Palm Windows Java Symbian Macintosh compatible and or other operating systems adapted for use with the present invention. The operating system manages the input and output of data and the interface between the various components of the mobile game client .

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the client communication means comprises communication software in cooperation with the operating system . The communication means communicates game state information which has been optimized to efficiently utilize the limited bandwidth of the wireless communications network to and from the mobile game server over the wireless communications network . The communication means packages and unpackages game information according to instructions received from the client DOF management means and the server DOF management means discussed below . In the preferred embodiment of the present invention local game information comprises UDP data packets. The use of other protocols for packeting and transporting the local game information such as for example TCP IP IP IP Mobile or any other suitable protocol s is considered to be well within the scope of the present invention.

As shown in the mobile game client further includes the client synchronization means cooperating with the communications means . The client synchronization means is preferably a client system clock adapted to time stamp the game information that is communicated with the mobile game server over the wireless communications network . As will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the client synchronization means enables the state of game play to be synchronized between all users of interactive gaming system . The synchronization means of the present invention preferably is an improvement over known Internet based gaming systems. The time management system inherent in a wireless network such as for example a CDMA network is more precise than that typically employed over IP based networks. This time management system is preferably embedded in the mobile game client and therefore all mobile game clients participating in a particular interactive session are synchronized with each other and with the mobile game server .

The client session management means manages the state event and behavior of the interactive game being played on the mobile game client . In the preferred embodiment the client session management means of the present invention further comprises the game application the local modeling means and the client degrees of freedom DOF management means . The client session management means is preferably an algorithm for managing the interactive application gaming session and all game objects at the client level. The client session management means controls the functioning of the game application the local modeling means and the client DOF management means .

The game application is game software that resides on the mobile game client . The game application comprises the application of the host game application discussed below that resides on the mobile game server . The game application comprises the software necessary to provide all of the functions and features of the particular interactive application it describes. The game application is executed by the mobile game client and adapted to receive the input and provide the output necessary for the user to play an interactive game at the mobile game client .

The game application is preferably stored on the mobile game client via the memory means . As apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the memory means comprises for example a memory chip a plug in module solid state memory Sandisk memory media flash memory such as a Sony memory stick or any other memory means capable of supporting the game application and capable of receiving and storing updates from the mobile game server and input output from the client input output means.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the local modeling means is an algorithm designed to model the local game state. The term game state is generally meant to describe a current snapshot at any given time of the position timing and nature of gameplay for all game objects that are under the influence of a player s interactive choice in an interactive game experience. The exercise of choice by the player operates within the physics that controls the relationship between game objects in the interactive application. The local modeling means examines the data associated with the particular state of the game at the mobile game client . For any given game state this data may include for example a characters current position in the virtual game space which could be two or three dimensional the items the character is carrying whether the character. is moving and or the direction and rate at which the character is moving. The data that defines the game state is dependent on the particular game application .

The local modeling means recognizes any changes that occurred in the local game state with focus on the mobile client players variably defined area of controlled space relative to the last updated global game state. The global game state is managed by the mobile game server and is defined as the game view shared by all players. The local game state is the game parameter controlled space or sphere of influence that each client player currently occupies. The local game state will differ for each player at each mobile game client . In addition the size and scope of the local game state is flexibly defined depending on the interactive application or game involved. For example the local game state may involve a two dimensional view or a three dimensional view. Any interactions between the player and the game application at the mobile game client through the client input output means changes the state within that localized sphere of influence. The client session management means collects the change of state information from the local modeling means and implements the client DOF management means .

In the preferred embodiment the client DOF management means is an algorithm stored on the mobile game client . The client DOF management means preferably is designed to structure encode the change of game state information recognized by the local modeling means in a manner that can be communicated to the mobile game server and that efficiently utilizes the limited bandwidth of the wireless network . The mobile game server receives the coded changed game state information from each of the mobile game clients in the gaming session decodes the information updates the global model and returns the necessary information to update each mobile game client relative to the global game state.

The client DOF management means efficiently structures the change of game state information by optimizing the degrees of freedom information that is transmitted over the network. Simply put the client DOE management means provides a shorthand description of any changes in the local game state that minimizes the amount of information delivered across the network without compromising the enhanced realistic feel of the interactive application.

At a high level for example the present inventors anticipate that a number of methods may be used to reduce the amount of information necessary to enable the interactive gaming system . Instruction sets may be layered. In this manner sets of instructions may be grouped together in a logical fashion in order to reduce the amount of air traffic necessary to actuate the movement of a game piece. For example if the change in local state information recognized by the local modeling means includes the movement of a character that is running the information could be broken into several series of actions. Instructions could then be layered depicting groups of those actions. The arm movement could be depicted in one series of instructions leg movement could be depicted in a n other and movement of the character horizontally and or vertically could be depicted in yet other layers of instructions.

Similarly multiple sets of instructions may be collapsed into a single instruction. Although this would require creating a number of codes that represent the various actions the character could maintain it would offer the potential for dramatically reducing the amount of air interface traffic required to actuate the game. For example various of the actions involved in the game could be reduced to a single subroutine. Activities such as running jumping throwing crawling could each be reduced to a single instruction set so that a single instruction transmitted to the mobile game server could define a series of actions corresponding to the local change of game state information.

Furthermore the client DOF management means may efficiently manage spawned degree of freedom information such as for example projectile information. In an interactive gaming application where a projectile such as a missile a bullet a rope an arrow etc. is transmitted the system must track movement of two discrete objects the projectile and the image throwing it . Prior known systems deliver multiple sets of instructions across the air interface. Other systems deliver only one set of movement instructions leading to a less realistic gaming experience. In the present invention the trajectory of the projectile is calculated at the client DOF management means based on formulas or other data subject to depict movement of the projectile. The calculations and the formulas required to make the calculations are game specific and are part of the game application .

For example when the local change of game state information indicates that a ball has been thrown the client DOF management means preferably evaluates the trajectory that the ball will take rather than sending and receiving multiple instructions over the network depicting each stage of movement of the ball. This prevents the present invention from tying up valuable network capacity.

In an embodiment of the present invention where color is used color may be defined as a degree of freedom. Accordingly the local change of game state information may be reduced by controlling the transmission of color according to any one or more of the methods for controlling degrees of freedom and state information discussed above.

For example the facial color of a character in a particular game application may be defined by one degree of freedom with three states e.g. orange red and purple . The client DOF management means may define and structure any local change in the facial color such that only the state of the facial color needs to be transmitted over the air interface. When the character s face becomes bruised for example the client DOF management means describes 11 purple state information only rather than describing the change in terms of the entire face which would require more network bandwidth to transmit.

With reference to a preferred embodiment of the mobile game server will now be described in detail. The mobile game server preferably comprises the operating system the server communication means the server synchronization means the server session management means and the server application programming interface API . As apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the server API provides an interface between the server communication mean s and the server session management means .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a mobile entertainment services platform is adapted to support the mobile game server and other entertainment services servers including but not limited to servers adapted to provide user profiling voice over packet services Web browsing and or interactive community services such as those disclosed in Assignee s U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 833 656 entitled Method and System to Facilitate Interaction Between and Content Delivery to Users of a Wireless Communications Network filed Apr. 13 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.

Each of the components of the game server functions similarly to the corresponding component on the mobile game client . For example as shown in the game server includes an operating system . As discussed in conjunction with the mobile game client the operating system is any platform capable of supporting the multi player interactive gaming of the present invention.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the server communication means includes communication software in cooperation with the operating system . The server communication means communicates global game state information to and receives local game state information from each of the mobile game clients over the wireless communications network . Similar to the client communication means the server communication means packages and unpackages the game information according to instructions received from the server DOF management means .

As shown in the game server further includes the server synchronization means . The server synchronization means preferably includes a server system clock and a means such as an algorithm or software adapted to operate the system clock and to time stamp the global game information that is communicated with the mobile game clients over the wireless communications network .

The server session management means manages the state of the interactive game being played on all of the mobile game clients . In the preferred embodiment the server session management means of the present invention further comprises the host game application the global modeling means the game object library and the server DOF management means . The server session management means preferably is an algorithm for controlling the functioning of and interface to the game application the game object library the global modeling means and the server DOF management means . The server session management means manages the gameplay of all logged on users for a given interactive game application. The primary functions performed by the server session management means preferably include registration functionality for maintaining all session statistics of all game objects responsibility functionality for managing requests for all active or in play objects persistence functionality for controlling and maintaining permanent records of the state of all game objects utilized in a game session arbitration functionality for determining the current state of game objects estimation functionality for estimating the true state of game objects in active game play and reconciliation functionality for reconciling or smoothing the errors between the estimated and the actual state of the global objects based on the latest synchronization of the global game view.

The host game application is game software that resides on the mobile game server and is controlled by the server session management means . The host game application parallels the client game application and may include software describing any game application ranging from simplistic board games to complex graphic intensive action and adventure games.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the game object library is a database for storing a list of all relevant objects that comprise the interactive application. The game object library contains the entire list of objects that defines populates and creates the game play experience. All objects are grouped by their appearance or nature within the game construct. Object groups include but are not limited to mobile client interface client device input graphics communications game session and other groups that are appropriate given the type and genre of the game application. Within each object group there are object families. For example within the game session group depending on the type or nature of game play there would be object families for movement trajectory sound color shifts explosions characters tools weapons collectibles spells instruments etc. The game object library preferably cooperates with the server session management means . The server session management means accesses the game object library . The server session management means performs the rendering of instructions and the management of a game s entire object list for all logged on players in a particular game session.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the global modeling means is an algorithm designed to model the global game state. After the server communication means receives and decodes the change of state information from each of the mobile game clients the global modeling means updates the global game state based on this information.

The server DOF management means preferably is an algorithm stored on the mobile game server . The server DOF management means employs essentially the same algorithm data structuring methods that are used by the client DOF management means as discussed above. After the global game state has been updated by the global modeling means the server DOF means structures encodes the updated game state information in a manner that can be communicated to each mobile game client and that efficiently utilizes the limited bandwidth of the wireless network .

As will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art multiple variations and modifications of each of the above components may readily be adapted to be used with the present. invention. For example the present invention could be deployed in various combinations of hardware and or software. Various hardware configurations could be used each of which could be adapted to the objects of the present inventions. Similarly various software components could be employed in a manner suitable to achieve the objects of the present invention. Moreover various alternative algorithms could also be used each of which would be suitable to accomplish the purposes of the present invention. Thus it is as intended that the present invention cover the variations and modifications of the present invention provided they come within the scope of the appended Claims and their equivalents.

Various algorithms and standards are known in the art that may be adapted for determining evaluating and or communicating the degrees of freedom to support an interactive application in the manner of the present invention. For example Distributed Interactive Simulation DIS was published by EEL 4781 Computer Networks University of Central Florida in the Fall of 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference. The DIS application is described in the paper entitled Distributed Interactive Simulation DIS by James Heardt and Kevin Mite which is incorporated herein by reference. An alternative approach is MiMaze a distributed multiplayer game on the Internet. Laurent Gautier and Christophe Diot Design and Evaluation of MiMaze a Multiplayer Game on the Internet which is incorporated herein by reference. Other approaches include those described in A Network Software Architecture For Large Scale Virtual Environments a dissertation by Michael R. Macedonia at the Naval Post Graduate School in Monterrey Calif. June 1995 which is incorporated herein by reference. Simulation Interoperability Standards Organization Inc. has published draft standards that may also be adapted for use in conjunction with the present invention such as for example RPR FOM Version 1.0 Draft which is incorporated herein by reference. Similarly the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers has promulgated standards for enumeration and bit encoded values for use with protocols for distributed interactive simulation applications such as for example IEEE Standard 1278.1 and 1278.2 and accompanying documentation which are incorporated herein by reference.

Distributed Interactive Simulation DS is a network simulator that is designed to provide logistically efficient and cost effective support to perform training and provide the ability to practice tactics in a battle simulation. DIS attempts to provide a method of networking heterogeneous simulators together that allows realistic consistent simulations to occur despite differences in simulator hardware and software in order to achieve interoperability of network simulators. DIS does this through the use of the DIS protocol standard UDP. DIS integrates traditional simulator technologies with computer communication technologies to create a system that provides a common battlefield on which the various simulators can interact in active real time situations. Input and output is distributed across the simulators in real time. This feature places limits on latency between hosts. Practical networks using DIS typically require multicasting to implement the required distribution of all data to the participating simulators. These challenges are similar to those that are imposed in interactive gaming environment over a wireless communication network. Nonetheless the present inventors are not aware of any application of DIS or similar protocols to the problem of supporting interactive gaming applications prior to the present invention.

The foundation of DIS data structure is a standard set of messages and rules called Protocol Data Units PDUs . An example of one of these PDUs is the Entity State PDU which represents all of the state information about the simulated entity that all other simulators need to know. For example an Entity State PDU contains data about the position and velocity of an entity and makes the type position orientation and appearance of an entity available to all of the players of the distributed simulation. To save network bandwidth extrapolation or dead reckoning is used for the movement of the entity. By using the position velocity acceleration and rotational velocity data a receiving unit is able to then reckon a vehicle s position before the arrival of the next PDU thereby reducing consumption of network bandwidth.

DIS is strictly a peer to peer architecture in which all data is transmitted to all simulators where it can be rejected or accepted depending on the receivers needs. By eliminating a central server through which all messages pass DIS dramatically reduces the time needed for a simulator to send important information to another simulator. The lack of a central server greatly increases the realism of the simulator and the effectiveness of the simulation yet in this manner DIS differs from a wireless communications environment in which communications are mediated by network .

The types of PDUs exchanged in the DIS protocol include entity states emissions bit stream packets environment fire and detonation. The protocol used by DIS is specified in Standard for Distributed Interactive Simulation Application Protocols Version 2.0.4 Revised which is incorporated herein by reference. The DIS system uses Enumeration and Bit Encoded Values for Use with IEEE Standards 1278.1 1994 for Distributed Interactive Simulation Application Protocols IST CR 93 46 March 1994 which is incorporated herein by reference. For a definition of the enumerated values contained in the PDU fields specified in the IEEE 1278.1 standard CCTT simulation application host processors use the Internet standard User Data Graham Protocol UDP and the Internet Protocol IP for the transportation mechanism for PDUs. The CCTT network interface is consistent with the Standard for Distributed Interactive Simulation Communication Services and Profile IEEE Standard 1278.2 1995 which is incorporated herein by reference.

MiMaze is a distributed i.e. server list game that uses unreliable communications systems. MiMaze Transmission Control is based on RTP over UDP IP multicast. Because of the distributed architecture of MiMaze its synchronization mechanism has to cope with different transmission delays among the participants.

The characteristics of distributed games are very similar to those of DIS applications. MiMaze differs from DIS applications in that the requirements of the application s Central Processing Unit CPU are low. The application operates on the Internet. MiMaze employs a fully distributed architecture using multi point communications support. This architecture offers advantages such as robustness and scalability. Each entity computes its own local view of the global state of the game using information received from the other entities. This locally computed view is then displayed to the local participant.

Network delays in MiMaze being different for all participants on the Internet synchronization must be introduced to allow ADUs issued at the same time to be processed together by any participant. In the MiMaze environment time is divided into fixed length sampling periods and a bucket is associated with each sampling period. All ADUs received by a player that were issued by senders during a given sampling period are stored by the receiver in the bucket corresponding to that interval. When a participant has to deliver an updated global state it computes all the ADUs available in the current bucket. One feature of synchronization is that all participants should display the same game state at the same time. MiMaze includes a global clock mechanism to evaluate the delay between participating entities. The synchronization efficiency of systems such as MiMaze is relatively high. The producers of MiMaze claim that more than 85 of the buckets are delivered on time and there is no late ADU. MiMaze purports to be the first multi player game designed to be totally distributed i.e. serverless. MiMaze further establishes that distributed approaches providing a good level of performance with potential scalability and real time properties are accessible to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

These approaches proposed standards and standards however relate to the transmission of information over wireline networks on a peer to peer basis. Due to the greater bandwidth available aggressive control over the degrees of freedom and management of packet data is not as critical in these prior known environments as it is over a wireless communication network. Accordingly although these or other algorithms and methods could be used in conjunction with the present invention the present invention goes beyond by providing a system and method for managing degrees of freedom to adapt the application for use over a wireless communications network.

The present invention preferably adapts interactive protocols and standards specifically to control the degrees of freedom of an interactive application. Whereas DIS and MiMaze are peer to peer applications running on the Internet or on distributed wide area networks the present invention is preferably adapted to control the degrees of freedom in a manner that efficiently uses bandwidth and enables the interactive application to be rendered in real time over a wireless communications network.

As shown in the server means preferably further comprises the local caching servers the one or more master server means and one or more databases . The database s preferably comprise databases for games web server functionality forum functions advertising and other dedicated functions provided by the network.

As shown in the interactive system preferably further comprises the customer care means . The customer care means provides for example provisioning billing and reporting services and may include human and or automated agent representatives for providing service support to the customer. The customer care means is preferably adapted to interface both with the mobile game client and the master server means . For example the customer care means may be adapted to interface with the mobile game client through a USB connection of the type well known in the art. Alternatively customer care means preferably is adapted to cooperate with the server means and in particular the master server means through server router connections of a type well known in the art prior to the present invention.

As shown in in an alternative preferred embodiment of the present invention the server means further comprises one or more local caching server and one or more master server . As shown in the local caching server further comprises a media module and an operator switching center . In a preferred embodiment the master server further comprises game lobby server means for selecting content and managing subscriber profiles targeting etc. a reporting database for managing the persistence function of the server session management means a web server for managing interactive community functions a privacy server for managing subscriber key encryption information a game server farm for providing one or more game servers a communications server for providing instant messaging chat and other functions and memory means .

As shown in the master server and the local caching server of the present invention preferably provide scalability. It would be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications and variations may be made in the configuration of the server means without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. For example a single server means may be used in lieu of a separate local caching server and master server . In alternative preferred embodiments of the present invention the server means further comprises one or more local caching server located adjacent to the point of presence of the local wireless communications network and a single master server serving the operators entire operation. In further alternative preferred embodiments of the present invention the server means further comprises one or more local caching server located adjacent to the point of presence of each of the operators local geographic networks and one or more master servers located in the operators network to enhance the operation and facilitate coordination of the communications and interactive application traffic over the operators network. Thus it is intended that the variations and modifications of the server means and in particular of the hardware and software components and deployment of the local caching server the master server and multiple levels of servers be considered part of the invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

The system of the present invention defines manages and or communicates degree of freedom of information between one or more users mobile game clients and the network in coordination with the mobile game server . depicts a conceptual block diagram of the conversion of state information event information and behavior information into time information space information and velocity information . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the degree of freedom management means and take information about the state of the interactive application various events and various behaviors by the user and convert that information into parameters for time space and velocity of objects in the interactive application that can be rendered the user.

In a preferred embodiment to the present invention management of degrees of freedom is accomplished by constructing and sequencing communications packets. Construction of packet data is universal to all digital wireless technologies. Packet data preferably carries the required information to render the interactive application to the user. Descripting languages are preferably used to construct the bit order and sequencing of a communications packet. Varying numbers of bits are developed over an interval of time that have been transmitted to and from the network. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the structuring and sequencing of bits in a packet allows the packet to provide critical information between the mobile game server and the mobile game client in a manner more efficient than those methods known prior to the present invention.

Bandwidth and latency impose inherent difficulties for multiplayer games over a wireless communications network. The mobile game server of the present invention preferably controls the global model of the interactive application. Accordingly the mobile game server controls the current global game state of the interactive application. Each of the mobile game clients preferably possesses a true subset of the global game state based on its local sphere of influence within a game session. The client session management means and the server session management means preferably communicate information between the local model and the global model. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the client session management means and the server session management means communicate through communication means this degree of freedom engine information with a minimum amount of data over a wireless communication network by controlling the degrees of freedom and the construction and filling of data products.

As embodied herein the degree of freedom management means and are adapted to further increase the efficiency of the wireless network by determining which mobile game clients require a global update transmission. This is done based on the relevancy of other game state changes at other participating game clients relative to the specific mobile game client s local model. Degree of freedom packets are preferably filtered at the mobile game server to insure that return trip data has relevance and is economically transmitted to each participating mobile client .

The game state preferably is defined by the degree of freedom management means and . The degree of freedom management means and preferably include extensible coding languages with object orientation capable of defining game state event and behavior of all game objects within a virtual game environment.

The present invention preferably employs game state packets. The game state packets of the present invention preferably enable communication of each player s game state relative to the physics time space and velocity of the interactive application as depicted in . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention game state packets preferably comprise initialization packets for establishing various game states including players bit number location references location state packets time sequencing and error correction adjustment packets for determining time and correcting errors and rate initialization and reference packets for determining velocity.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the degrees of freedom can be defined by as little as one or more bits depending on the condition within the game environment that is being controlled. If there is no change of state no data need be transmitted. Each object that is involved within the game environment is adapted to have a defined set of parameters that will describe its behavior within the game environment. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention some characteristics of the game packets include information that is character specific device specific location specific object physics or other characteristics that are adapted to facilitate game play. Degrees of freedom are preferably grouped or mapped to an object library to allow complex movements within the interactive application to be controlled with minimal transmitted information. The characteristics of each packet are preferably specific to the client client set or client server. This allows for larger complex game environments to be established where multiple players coexist simultaneously taking actions that may or may not be shown on the client field of play.

The degrees of freedom may define the relevant motions of an object. All objects required in a given application are preferably included in the game object library . Each activity of the object is defined by a degree of freedom such as that described in Table 1 below. The degree of freedom establishes the state of the action being controlled. The number of bits dedicated to each degree of freedom may be variable depending on the action.

Table 2 provides an example of how the varying degrees of freedom may be used in an application of the present invention.

Functional information is preferably mapped from a bit number location reference to individual degrees of freedom for individual objects within the game session through a degree of freedom variable library. The degree of freedom variable library is preferably established on the mobile game server the client and or clients . provides an example of a mapping between a bit number location reference a degree of freedom variable library in the game state of an alternative preferred embodiment of the present invention.

As discussed above the present invention preferably manages degrees of freedom in order to improve the transfer of state information for a wireless interactive application. In a preferred embodiment the present invention comprises a process and method for determining and communicating an instruction set for describing change of state information. The method preferably further comprises determining the degrees of freedom based upon the instructions set reducing the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom to achieve a desired efficient configuration of the change of state information and synchronizing the action of each of the users relative to each other in order to facilitate the interactive application among one or more users. Determination of the instruction set is preferably based on a number of factors including without limitation the features and characteristics of the client the version of the interactive application that is being executed user preferences control protocols relative to the wireless communication network and the client with respect to the interactive application and the features and characteristics of the interactive application itself.

In a preferred embodiment the process of determining the degrees of freedom associated with the interactive application further comprises consideration of additional parameters including one or more of the following the degree to which degrees of freedom may be layered or combined any limitations applicable to the degrees of freedom device specific parameters considerations of network efficiencies and handling of projectiles. Layering of degrees of freedom preferably further comprises any one or more of the following techniques creating a metaset of degrees of freedom that combines one or more other degrees of freedom to create a more complexed or combined action reducing entire server displays to one or more degrees of freedom depicting a single action as a degree of freedom or alternatively combining a series of actions into one or more degrees of freedom. To the extent that various actions depicted by certain degrees of freedom typically occur together those groups of degrees of freedom may be combined into an alternative degree of freedom to further compress the data transfer requirements. In addition special degrees of freedom may be created to perform unique or unusual maneuvers in the interactive application.

Limits are preferably imposed on degrees of freedom based on one or more of a number of parameters independently arbitrarily or the users or system operators preferences. Limits may be imposed on various of the degrees of freedom based on rules of the interactive application that is being executed. Limits may be imposed on certain degrees of freedom based on system parameters or requirements. Similarly the device specific degrees of freedom may be adapted based upon one or more of the following capabilities of the client graphics sounds scent temperature vibrations and or feedback. The determination of degrees of freedom based on network efficiency of the process of determining degrees of freedom may be based on any factor that influences the efficiency of transfer of information over the air interface. These may include any one or more of the following without imitation frame transfer rate the size of the frame at the point on which the frame is transferred namely the degree to which the frame is filled before being transferred the data transfer rate and packet definition.

In a preferred embodiment the step of reducing the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom to the critical set desired to execute the interactive application further comprises reducing the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom in order to more efficiently manage the transfer of state information over the air interface. It will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art that variations and modifications may be made in the manner in which the instruction set and or degrees of freedom are managed to achieve this goal without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For example in determining the instruction set the instruction set could be analyzed critically to determine the minimal number of instructions that are necessary in order to render the interactive application. Only those minimal number of instructions could then be converted into degrees of freedom which are managed over the air interface. Alternatively the desired instruction set for the interactive application could be determined and all of the instruction set converted into degrees of freedom. At that point the degrees of freedom could be analyzed critically to determine the least number of degrees of freedom necessary to render the interactive application in the desired format. The balance of the degrees of freedom from the original instruction set could be ignored and only those degrees of freedom that are necessary or critical to render the interactive application in the desired format could be transmitted over the air interface. The reduction of the instruction set and or the degrees of freedom may be based on user input input from other users or the conditions of the state of play such as rain storms snow wind and a variety of other environmental parameters . Thus it is. intended that the variations and modifications of the invention be included provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

In a preferred embodiment the transfer of state information further comprises managing the synchronization in a manner to provide the desired gaming experience. This can be accomplished in a number of ways including without limitation lagging other users of the interactive application to synchronize the action of the interactive application with the slowest user or allowing the fastest player to proceed and snapping other users to the same point in the game or determining one or more users whose state of play determines the point of synchronization and snapping the balance of the users to that point. During the course of playing an interactive game a variety of factors may cause one or more of the users to lag behind the balance of the users of the application. For example interference for multi path signals may delay or disrupt the transmission of the interactive application to one or more of the users. In that case the user whose signal is disrupted may begin to lag behind other users of the game. In addition it is possible that through a variety of disruptive effects on various of the users that one or more or all of the users may begin to lag relative to each other in the state of play of the interactive application. Thus the present invention preferably includes a process for synchronizing the various users of the interactive application periodically throughout the execution of the interactive application in order to synchronize the interactive gaming experience.

The present inventors anticipate that the system and method of a preferred embodiment of the present invention are fully compatible and usable in conjunction with PC based games as well as Internet applications and TV based games. In addition the present inventors anticipate that the service employing the system and method of the present invention may be offered as a flat rate offering in conjunction with services such as Assignee s Cricket wireless communications service. Such services may be offered on a prepaid billing service for game purchase. In addition scores may be posted through the wireless network in a number of locations. Numerous other variations and modification will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill that will facilitate the delivery of wireless interactive applications at high level of graphic quality while more efficiently using network bandwidth and resources than prior known systems and methods. Thus it is intended that the present invention include the variations and modification that may be used in conjunction with them provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

By means of example only and not by means of limitation mobile game clients 1 through 4 are depicted in as local 1 through local 4. Each mobile game client experiences its own state of play in steps . The local modeling means at each mobile game client then determines the state of play of that client device in steps and communicates that information to the client DOF management means . Each of the DOF management means determines the degrees of freedom necessary to manage the state of play of each of the mobile game clients in steps . The degrees of freedom information determined in steps is then communicated to each of the client communications means in step and packaged according to the instructions provided. The client communications means in turn communicates the degrees of freedom information in step over the wireless communication network to the server means . In step the server means undertakes to update the global model of the interactive application in the server session management means . The server means transmits the requisite information to the server synchronization means which undertakes the steps of synchronizing the communications between the server and the local client devices in step preferably using clock and synchronization means . The server communication means then communicates with the wireless communication network preferably through interworking function to transmit the updated and synchronized global information to each of the client server devices .

As shown in in step the server synchronization means synchronizes the state of each of the mobile game clients and the server means preferably using the system clock and the synchronization means . In step the server communication means then preferably transmits the synchronization information over the wireless communication network to each of the at least one mobile game clients . Each mobile game client experiences its own state of play in steps . The local modeling means at each mobile game client then determines the state of play of that client device in steps . The mobile game client communicates the local state information to the client communication means in step . The communication manager communicates the local state information to the server means over the wireless communication network in step . The server communication means transmits the state information from each mobile game client to the server session management means . The server session management means then undertakes the further steps of registering the mobile gave client in step determining responsibility for various activities in the interactive application in steps insuring persistence of various objects in the interactive application in steps arbitrating any conflicts between users and or the server in steps estimating the position of objects that have changed to date in step and reconciling any conflicts that have arisen through the session management means processing in step . In step the server session management means then transmits the updated global model information to the server synchronization means where the process begins again.

In contrast to in which none of the degrees of freedom management functions are performed on the mobile game client depicts a method in which the client DOF management means performs the steps of determining degrees of freedom corresponding to responsibility in step and undertaking to evaluate and determine the degrees of freedom corresponding to the estimation function in step . This information is then communicated through the communication means in step as depicted in .

The above description is merely illustrative of the preferred methods of using the invention and is not intended to limit the invention as disclosed and claimed. It will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications and variations may be made in the process of the present invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention include these variations and modifications provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

