---

title: Displaying simulated media content item enhancements on mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods for displaying a simplified version of a modification of a media content item on a mobile device are provided. The mobile device can receive, via a user interface presented on the mobile device, a request for a desired modification of an original media content item. The mobile device can perform a simplified version of the desired modification of the original media content item. The mobile device can present a preview of the modified media content item in the user interface. The mobile device can transmit, to another computing device, the original media content item with the request for the desired modification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591347&OS=09591347&RS=09591347
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09591347
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 720 929 filed Oct. 31 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Implementations of the present disclosure relate to a media content item editing system and more specifically to simulating a media content item enhancement on a mobile device.

Many people record video on their mobile devices and share those videos with others. In many cases these videos could benefit from modifications that alter the appearance of the video or improve visual and aural qualities of the video. Editing video content however can require considerable computing power and current technologies do not allow for meaningful video enhancements to be performed on mobile devices. Therefore many videos are uploaded from mobile devices to a content hosting service without any enhancements.

In some implementations a computer implemented method to present simulations of enhanced media content items on mobile devices is presented. The method includes receiving via a user interface presented on a mobile device a request for a desired modification of an original media content item. The method further includes performing at the mobile device a simplified version of the desired modification of the original media content item. The method also includes presenting a preview of a modified media content item in the user interface. The method also includes transmitting to another computing device the original media content item with the request for the desired modification.

In another implementation the method includes performing the simplified version of the desired modification of the media content item at substantially the same time as the receipt of the request for the desired modification via the user interface.

In yet another implementation the method includes receiving via the user interface a confirmation of the request for the desired modification of the original media content item.

In a further implementation the method includes receiving the media content item with the desired modification from the another computing device and display the media content item with the desired modification in the user interface.

In some implementations an apparatus includes means for receiving via a user interface presented on a mobile device a request for a desired modification of an original media content item. The apparatus also includes means for performing at the mobile device a simplified version of the desired modification of the original media content item. The apparatus further includes means for presenting a preview of a modified media content item in the user interface. The apparatus also includes means for transmitting to another computing device the original media content item with the request for the desired modification.

In another implementation the apparatus includes means for receiving via the user interface a confirmation of the request for the desired modification of the original media content item.

In other implementations an apparatus includes means for performing the simplified version of the desired modification of the media content item at substantially the same time as the receipt of the request for the desired modification via the user interface.

In another implementation an apparatus includes means for receiving the media content item with the desired modification from the another computing device and means for displaying the media content item with the desired modification in the user interface.

In additional implementations computing devices for performing the operations described above are also implemented. Further in some implementations a computer readable storage medium is provided to store instructions causing a processing device to perform the operations described above.

For illustrative purposes the description below is applicable to video but the systems apparatuses and methods described herein can similarly be applicable to any type of media content item including audio images video or any combination thereof.

Described herein is a mechanism for presenting simulations of enhanced videos on mobile devices. Conventionally stationary computers perform video editing because they can have increased computing resources when compared to mobile devices. Such stationary computers can include desktop computers and servers. Users typically capture videos using mobile devices because they are more portable than stationary computers. Once users capture videos on their mobile devices they transfer the captured videos from their mobile devices to stationary computers where the videos can then be viewed edited and shared.

Some mobile devices can perform very basic video editing but usually mobile devices have limited capabilities for enhancement. For instance video stabilization modifications tend to yield better results when utilizing more powerful machines and processors that are not available on mobile devices. Even for mobile devices that may have sufficient computing resources to perform video enhancements video edits typically consume computing resources and battery life at a high rate thereby negatively impacting the performance and usability of the mobile devices. When video enhancements are performed over a network e.g. on a cloud a preview of the enhanced video on the mobile device is delayed due to time required for uploading the video to the cloud waiting for the cloud to complete the enhancement operations and downloading the modified video to the mobile device so it could be viewed as a preview before the user decides whether to keep the modification.

Implementations of the present disclosure address the above deficiencies of conventional systems by performing simplified enhancements of a video on a mobile device and presenting a preview of the resulting enhanced video on the mobile device. For example a mobile device can receive a request for a desired enhancement of an original video. The mobile device can perform a simplified version of the desired enhancement of the original video and present a preview of the resulting enhanced video in a user interface. The mobile device can then transmit to a server the video with the request for the desired enhancement.

Performing a simplified video enhancement can require less computing resources than performing a complete non simplified video enhancement. For example complete video enhancement can be a frame by frame color correction that includes applying filters over multiple passes and simplified video enhancement can be a simple color oversaturation. The mobile device can modify the video using the simplified video enhancement almost immediately after receiving the request for the desired enhancement. Accordingly the present disclosure provides an efficient and convenient mechanism that allows users to quickly see a simplified enhancement of a video and decide whether a complete enhancement of the video is desirable. In particular implementations of the present disclosure enable users to quickly preview simplified enhancements to videos on their mobile devices while letting a more powerful machine perform the complete enhancements. This allows a user to take advantage of the ease of use and portability of a mobile device for requesting a desired enhancement without negatively impacting performance of the mobile device.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

The term video is used herein for illustrative purposes only and the present disclosure can also be applied to any type of media content item such as audio images digital movies digital photos digital music website content social media updates electronic books ebooks electronic magazines digital newspapers digital audio books electronic journals web blogs real simple syndication RSS feeds electronic comic books software applications or other media content.

The mobile device can be a portable computing device such as and not limited to cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs portable media players netbooks laptop computers an electronic book reader or a tablet computer e.g. that includes a book reader application and the like. The mobile device can receive a media item such as a digital video or a digital movie from the data store . The mobile device can run an operating system OS that manages hardware and software of the mobile device .

The data store can store media items such as and not limited to digital video digital movies etc. Media items can be received from any source including components of the mobile device a server machine another mobile device etc. For example the data store can store a digital video captured by a video camera of a mobile device . The data store can be a persistent storage that is capable of storing data. A persistent storage unit can be a local storage unit or a remote storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a magnetic storage unit optical storage unit solid state storage unit electronic storage units main memory or similar storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a monolithic device or a distributed set of devices. A set as used herein refers to any positive whole number of items. The data store can be internal to the mobile device or external to the mobile device and accessible by the mobile device via a network. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art in some implementations data store may be a network attached file server or a cloud based file server while in other implementations data store might be some other type of persistent storage such as an object oriented database a relational database and so forth.

Server machine can be a rack mount server a router computer a personal computer a portable digital assistant a laptop computer a desktop computer a media center a tablet a stationary machine or any other computing device capable of performing enhancements of videos.

In one implementation the mobile device uses a video preview module to perform a simplified version of a desired video modification and present a preview of the resulting video. An example video preview module is discussed in more detail below in conjunction with . The video preview module can receive a request for a desired modification to a video stored in data store . To reduce computing resources associated with video editing the video preview module can perform a simplified version of the desired modification on the video and can present the resulting video to a user in a user interface. The mobile device can transmit the video to server machine . At any time before during or after transmitting the video to server machine the mobile device can transmit the request for the desired modification of the video. Once the video transmission finishes the server machine can perform the modification to the video.

In one implementation the user can view the resulting video to decide whether to proceed with the complete non simplified modification of the video and can submit a confirmation of the request for the desired modification. In this implementation once the video preview module receives the confirmation the mobile device can transmit the video to server machine along with the request for the desired modification of the video.

The server machine can receive the video and the request for the desired modification of the video. Server machine can include video modifier to perform the desired modification of the video that the user requested via the mobile device . Server machine can include a content hosting service for example that can process or generate the modification of the video. Once the modification of the video is complete server machine can make the modified video available for viewing by others e.g. on the content hosting service s website . Alternatively the mobile device can upload the video to a personal computer laptop or other non cloud device for performing the modification. Once the modification is performed these devices can publish the video such that it is viewable at least to the mobile device via a wired or wireless protocol such as a local network Bluetooth Wi Fi the internet etc.

In an example a user desires to enhance the color of a leopard in a video. The mobile device can execute an algorithm to perform a simplified version of a color enhancement to the leopard which can be a simple oversaturation filter that changes the colors of the video. Conversely to perform the complete modification the server machine can use a much more detailed and complex algorithm to alter the colors of the leopard video. The server machine can also use reference videos to identify the best color match for the leopard. The server machine for example can use a video hosting service to identify one or more reference videos of leopards and determine color characteristics of the leopards in the reference videos. To enhance the video the server machine can match the color of the leopard in the video with those in the reference videos.

The desired modification can be any alteration or enhancement to the video. The desired modification for example can be an operation intended to augment alter or modify the objective quality or subjective artistic value of the video. Any number of modifications can be available to a user. A modification can include filters that modify the appearance of the video. Filters can adjust or augment colors saturation contrast brightness tint focus and exposure and can also add effects such as framed borders color overlay blur sepia lens flares etc. Other modifications can be spatial transformations such as cropping or rotation that can alter a spatial property of the video such as size aspect ratio height width rotation angle etc. Other modifications can be simulations of photographic processing techniques e.g. cross process High Dynamic Range HDR HDR ish simulation of particular cameras models e.g. lomo holga or the styles of particular photographers cinematographers e.g. Orton orton ish . Examples of static modifications may include cross process cinemascope adding audio and a mix level for the audio erasure of specific audio e.g. removing a song from the video recording or addition of sound effects etc. Examples of dynamic modifications can include identifying filters and randomizing inputs e.g. intensity of effect over course of the video filters using inferred depth map info e.g. foreground color with background black white foreground in focus with background blur speed up slow down tilt shift simulation adding a frame outside the video e.g. video inside an old TV with moving dials superimposing things on top of video e.g. Ryan Gosling James Van Der Beek overlaying items on people s faces e.g. hats mustaches etc that can move with the people in the video selective focus miniature faking tilted focus adjusting for rotation 2D to 3D conversion etc. Other examples include modifications where the user provides little or no input other than clicking an I m feeling lucky Magic enhancement or Magic adjustment button.

In some implementations the video preview module can automatically perform a simplified version of the modification of the video. Once the user designates a desired modification in the user interface as being an automatic modification video preview module can automatically modify the video with no further action from the user. An automatic modification requires no additional input settings or manual adjustment from the user. For example the user can select a sepia tone filter as an automatic modification. Each subsequent video received by the mobile device can have the sepia filter applied automatically.

In some implementations the user can preview a video modified using a simplified modification algorithm and may request that all subsequent videos be modified using a corresponding regular non simplified modification algorithm. In those implementations the above modification is designated as automatic and all subsequent videos are automatically sent to the server with a request to perform the above modification. Alternatively a simplified version of the above modification algorithm can be performed on each subsequent video and a preview of the resulting modified video can be presented to the user. The user can then request an additional modification which can be performed using a simplified algorithm and provided as a preview or it can be sent to the server to be performed remotely. One example of such additional modification can be a trim operation that the user can request using a trim menu providing the user with an option to trim the size aspect ratio duration etc. of the video.

In one implementation mobile device includes a video capture module not shown that can record obtain import or otherwise capture video. The video capture module can be for example an image sensor camera video camera or a combination thereof. Videos captured by video capture module can be modified as described herein.

The video preview module can be coupled to one or more data stores that store online media items. Data store can receive a media item from another module or component of the mobile device such as from a video capture module or from a camera. In another implementation data store receives a media item from another mobile device or from a remote storage such as from a media hosting server.

The video preview module can also be coupled to an enhancement module store that can include algorithms for performing one or more simplified modifications to a video. Data store and enhancement module store can be persistent storage units as described herein.

GUI can be a user interface allowing a user to interact with a mobile device . GUI can include one or more user interface tools. As the term is used herein a user interface tool refers to any single graphical instrument or combination of graphics controls that permit a user to input information to a computer system. Common conventional user interface tools include visual output for one or more buttons text boxes scroll bars pictures spin dials list boxes search boxes select options etc.

GUI can present videos to a user and can receive input from the user. Through GUI video preview module can receive a request for a desired modification of a video from the user. For example the GUI can present an option or menu for selecting a desired modification of the video. Using the option or menu the user can request a desired modification of the video. The desired modification can include one or more enhancements to the video such as color correction stabilization trim and others as described herein.

In addition to providing interface tools GUI can also be configured to present a preview of the modified video that has been generated by the video modifier . By viewing the modified video the user can decide whether to confirm the request for the desired modification of the video. GUI can also be configured to receive a confirmation of the request for the desired modification of the video and can forward the confirmation to the video transmitter . Examples of other data that can be presented by GUI are described in further detail in conjunction with .

The video modifier can use the request for the desired modification of the video to perform a simplified version of the modification of the video. The video modifier can modify the video according to a simplified algorithm. The simplified algorithm can be optimized for mobile devices such that executing the simplified algorithm consumes minimal resources e.g. computing power battery life memory etc. of the mobile device. By performing the simplified algorithm the video modifier can generate an approximation of how the complete modification may alter or change the appearance of the video. For example a complete modification can adjust the brightness of a video. To use less computing resources a simplified modification can include adjusting portions of the video that are most likely to show a change in brightness. With the simplified modification black portions of the video might not be modified because they can be less likely to show the change in brightness than in other colors.

In one implementation the video modifier can perform the simplified version of the desired modification of the video almost immediately after the GUI receives the request. In this manner the GUI can present a preview of the resulting modified video to the user in real time. Similarly GUI can begin playing the modified video and can receive one or more requests for a desired modification from the user at substantially the same time. This enables a user to quickly preview different modifications to the video and decide which of these modifications are likely to produce the result desired by the user.

The video transmitter can transmit the video to another device such as a server with the request for the desired modification. For example when the user activates an Upload GUI button on the GUI video transmitter can transmit the video to a server or system of distributed servers e.g. the cloud or a content hosting service. The video transmitter can also upload the video to a personal computer a laptop or other device with computing power sufficient to perform the actual video enhancement.

In one implementation in order to expedite the complete modification of the video in anticipation of the user s conformation of the original modification request the mobile device can start uploading the video to the server in parallel with or prior to presenting the preview of the video modified with a simplified algorithm. For example the video can be uploaded 99 and the final 1 can be uploaded when the GUI receives the user s conformation of the original modification request such as through an upload button. This enables a better user experience because the user waits less time for the video to upload and for the complete modification to process.

Video preview area can present a preview of the resulting video modified using a simplified enhancement algorithm. The preview can be in any format and in any aspect ratio. If the user is satisfied with the modifications to the video the user can provide a confirmation of the request for the desired modification of the video such as via upload button .

At block of method processing logic receives a video. Processing logic can receive the video from any source or device and via any network. At block processing logic receives via a user interface presented on a mobile device a request for a desired modification of a video. The modification can be any change to the visual or audio features of the video as described herein. Using the modification request at block processing logic performs at the mobile device a simplified version of the desired modification of the video. At block processing logic presents the modified video in the user interface. At block processing logic can receive via the user interface a confirmation of the request for the desired modification of the video. Processing logic can transmit to a server the video with the request for the desired modification at block . In one implementation processing logic transmits the video with the request for the desired modification to the server in response to the confirmation.

In another implementation processing logic can receive the video with the desired modification at block . The desired modification can have been performed by another device or system. Processing logic can present the video with the desired modification in the user interface. For example a user can record a video on a mobile device select one or more enhancements to the video and upload the video to a video sharing website. Servers at the video sharing website can perform the enhancements and can store the modified or enhanced video. Once processing logic receives the video with the desired modification it can present the modified video in the user interface.

The example computing system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing device can be configured to execute the video preview module for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

Computing system may further include a network interface device . Computing system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touch control device e.g. a touch sensitive device that can receive simple or multi touch gestures and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

Additionally the machine may include an image sensing module an image capture device a hardware media encoder decoder and or a graphics processor GPU . The image sensing module can include an image sensor. An image sensor is a device that converts an optical image or images into an electronic signal. The image sensor can be a camera CMOS CCD. The image sensor can capture still images or motion pictures video .

Data storage device may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a computer readable storage medium having one or more sets of instructions e.g. video preview module embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. The video preview module may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processing device during execution thereof by computing system main memory and processing device also constituting machine readable storage media.

Machine readable storage medium may also be used to store the device queue manager logic persistently. While machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The components and other features described herein can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICs FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition these components can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further these components can be implemented in any combination of hardware devices and software components.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as capturing performing causing encoding storing receiving assigning generating presenting transmitting obtaining displaying or the like may refer to the actions and processes of a machine a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

For simplicity of explanation the methods have been depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a computer readable storage medium to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Although the operations of the methods herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another implementation instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

Reference throughout this disclosure to one implementation or an implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation or implementation is included in at least one implementation. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one implementation or in an implementation in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more implementations.

Implementations also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory devices including universal serial bus USB storage devices e.g. USB key devices or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each of which may be coupled to a computing system bus.

The methods and systems described herein can be used in a wide variety of implementations including as part of a mobile application app and can be part of photo or video related software including a mobile operating system. Apps installed on the mobile device can access the systems and methods via one or more application programming interface API .

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing system or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description above. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the disclosure as described herein.

