---

title: Presenting results from multiple search engines
abstract: Systems and methods for presenting search results from multiple sources are provided. In some aspects, a search query is received. The search query is provided to multiple search engines. Multiple search results corresponding to the search query are received from the multiple search engines. The multiple search results are sorted according to an order. At least a portion of the multiple search results are presented. The presented search results are selected based on the order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589033&OS=09589033&RS=09589033
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09589033
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---
A user of a computing device may run a search using an application launcher of the computing device. However the search results provided using the application launcher may be limited and the user may desire different type s of search results than those provided by the application launcher. As the foregoing illustrates a new approach for generating and presenting search results may be desirable.

In some aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a computer implemented method for presenting search results. The method includes receiving at a computing device a search query. The method includes providing the search query to multiple search engines where each of the multiple search engines searches a corresponding data store and where the multiple search engines include a local search engine configured to search a local data store and an online search engine configured to search an online data store. The method includes receiving from the multiple search engines multiple search results corresponding to the search query. The method includes sorting the multiple search results according to an order. The method includes presenting at the computing device at least a portion of the multiple search results the presented search results being selected based on the order.

In some aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a non transitory computer readable medium encoded with executable instructions. The instructions include code for receiving one or more user interactions with a search input box. The instructions include code for providing the one or more user interactions with the search input box to multiple search engines wherein each of the multiple search engines searches data associated with a corresponding application where at least one corresponding application is a local application and where at least one corresponding application is an online application. The instructions include code for receiving within a predetermined amount of time after providing the one or more user interactions to the multiple search engines search results from the multiple search engines. The instructions include code for presenting at least a portion of the received search results.

In some aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a system. The system includes one or more processors and a memory. The memory includes instructions. The instructions include code for presenting an application launcher user interface element the application launcher user interface element including a search input box. The instructions include code for receiving one or more user interactions with the search input box. The instructions include code for providing the one or more user interactions with the search input box to multiple search engines where each of the multiple search engines searches data associated with a corresponding application where at least one corresponding application is a local application and where at least one corresponding application is an online application. The instructions include code for receiving within a predetermined amount of time after providing the one or more user interactions to the multiple search engines search results from the multiple search engines. The instructions include code for presenting within the application launcher user interface element at least a portion of the received search results.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description where various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances certain structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

The subject technology provides techniques for generating and presenting search results responsive to a search query. According to some implementations a computing device receives a search query for example via an application launcher of the computing device. Alternatively the search query may be received via any interface enabling access to multiple applications for example an omnibox of a browser. The multiple applications may include hosted applications packaged applications browser applications mobile applications tablet computer applications or laptop desktop computer applications. The computing device provides the search query to multiple search engines. Each of the multiple search engines has a corresponding data store and the multiple search engines include at least one local search engine configured to search a local data store of the computing device and at least one online search engine configured to search an online data store. The multiple search engines may include a search engine for searching local files a search engine for searching local applications a search engine for searching contents of local applications a search engine for searching applications in an application store a search engine for searching contents of applications in the application store and a web search engine. The data store may correspond to an application. For example a social networking data store may be associated with a social networking application or a local document data store may be associated with a local document manager application. The computing device receives from the multiple search engines multiple search results corresponding to the search query. The computing device sorts the multiple search results according to an order. The computing device presents via a display device at least a portion of the multiple search results the portion of the multiple search results being selected based on the order.

In some examples the order according to which the computing device sorts the multiple search results may include placing a threshold number e.g. two search results from each search engine at the beginning of the order so that the user is first presented with the threshold number of search results from each search engine before being presented with other search results. Alternatively the order may be determined based on the orders of search results provided by each of the search engines. For instance each search engine may provide a score for each search result generated by the search engine and the order of all of the search results for all of the search engines may be determined based on the score.

As shown the interface A of the user has entered the search query calc in the search input box . In response the search results and A are presented. The search result A is a calculator application which may have been generated by a search engine for searching local applications that are installed on the computing device presenting the interface A. The search result is a link to search for the search query calc via a web search engine and may be associated with a web search engine application or data store. The search result A is a simple calc application available via a browser web store and may be associated with a search engine for searching applications in the browser web store or a search engine for the browser web store application. The search result A is associated with a button A which when selected causes the simple calc browser application to be added to the browser.

The interface B of is similar to the interface A of and may be presented in response to the selection of the add to browser button A of . Similar to the interface A the interface B includes the search input box with the search query calc and the search results and . The simple calc search result A of is transformed into the simple calc search result B in response to the selection of the add to browser button A of to indicate that the simple calc browser application is being loaded on the browser. The simple calc search result B includes the text will open in 15 secs . . . to indicate that the loading will be finished and the simple calc browser application will be opened in 15 seconds. The simple calc search result B includes the loading bar B which provides a visual indication of a portion of the simple calc browser application that has been loaded onto the browser.

As illustrated in a browser application e.g. simple calc search result A B searchable via search engine associated with a browser application store data store application may be searchable through an application launcher search input box e.g. input box A B and may be a search result from a search entered in the application launcher search input box.

Search engines in addition those described above may also be used in conjunction with the subject technology. For example a computing device may have a social networking application installed thereon and one of the search results in addition to those illustrated in or may be a search for the search query in the social networking application or a result of a search for the search query in the social networking application.

The client computing device may be a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA an electronic music player etc. The client computing device may display one or more of the interfaces A or B of . As shown the client computing device includes a processing unit a network interface and a memory . The processing unit includes one or more processors. The processing unit may include a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or any other processing unit. The processing unit is configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer readable medium for example the memory . The network interface is configured to allow the client computing device to transmit and receive data in the network for example to communicate with the server . The memory stores data and or instructions. The memory may be one or more of a cache unit a storage unit an internal memory unit or an external memory unit. As illustrated the memory includes local search engines . associated with local data stores . and a search result presentation module .

Each local search engine . where k is a number between 1 and m is configured to search a local data store .. Each local data store .is stored locally at the client computing device . Each local data store .may be associated with a local application for example a contact list application a photograph application a video application a document manager application a spreadsheet application a business presentation application.

The search result presentation module when executed causes the processing unit to receive a search query and provide the received search query to local search engines . at the client computing device and to remote online search engines. The search result presentation module causes the processing unit to receive search results from the local search engines . and from the remote online search engines and to present at least a portion of the received search results. Examples of the operation of the search result presentation module are discussed in more detail in conjunction with below.

While the server is illustrated as single machine the server may be implemented as a single machine or as multiple different remote machines. For example one or more of the online search engines or the online data stores stored at the server may be stored at different machines. As shown the server includes a processing unit a network interface and a memory . The processing unit includes one or more processors. The processing unit may include a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or any other processing unit. The processing unit is configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer readable medium for example the memory . The network interface is configured to allow the server to transmit and receive data in the network for example to communicate with the client computing device . The memory stores data and or instructions. The memory may be one or more of a cache unit a storage unit an internal memory unit or an external memory unit. As illustrated the memory includes online search engines . associated with online data stores . . As shown all of the online search engines . and all of the online data stores . reside at the same machine. However according to some implementations all or a portion of the online search engines . or the online data stores . reside at different machines and communicate with one another via the network.

Each online search engine . where k is a number between 1 and n is configured to search an online data store .. Each online data store .is stored externally to the client computing device . Each online data store .may be associated with a local application for example a web search application a mobile app store application a browser app store application a social networking application an online document manager application an email application etc.

The process begins at step where a computing device e.g. client computing device via operation of search result presentation module receives a search query. For example the search query may be entered at the computing device via an input box of an interface enabling access to multiple applications for example an application launcher or an omnibox of a browser with embedded browser applications including hosted applications and packaged applications. The multiple applications accessible via the interface may include one or multiple of browser applications mobile applications tablet computer applications or laptop desktop computer applications. The computing device may present an application launcher user interface element e.g. interface or A where the application launcher user interface element includes a search input box e.g. search input box or . The search query may include user interaction s with the search input box. For example the search query may be a zero query e.g. a selection of the search input box without entering text or the search query may include one or more characters e.g. the characters calc as illustrated in or one or more keystrokes while the search input box is selected. If the search query is a zero query the search results received from the search engines may be selected based on stored information related to the computing device. The stored information may be stored at the computing device or at a server.

In step the computing device provides the search query to multiple search engines e.g. local search engines . and online search engines . . According to some implementations the search query is provided to the multiple search engines via a launcher search application programming interface API . Each of the multiple search engines searches a corresponding data store. The multiple search engines include a local search engine configured to search a local data store e.g. local search engine .searches local data store . and an online search engine configured to search an online data store e.g. online search engine .searches online data store . . One or more of the multiple search engines may have a corresponding application. For example a local photograph search engine may correspond to local photograph viewing application or a camera application. An online social networking search engine may correspond to an online social networking application. Other examples of corresponding applications may include a local file application or a music player application.

In step the computing device receives from the multiple search engines multiple search results corresponding to the search query. The computing device may receive the multiple search results in step within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 100 milliseconds 500 milliseconds 1 second 2 seconds 10 seconds etc. after providing the search query to the multiple search engines in step . The predetermined amount of time may be specified by the launcher search API.

In step the computing device sorts the multiple search results according to an order. The computing device may determine for each search engine in the multiple search engines a ranking of search results received from the search engine. The computing device may calculate for each search result in the multiple search results a normalized ranking score based on the ranking received from the search engine providing the search result. The computing device may sort the multiple search results according to the normalized ranking score.

In step the computing device presents at least a portion of the multiple search results. The presented search results are selected based on the order. After step the process ends.

The process begins at step where a computing device e.g. client computing device via operation of search result presentation module receives one or more user interactions with a search input box e.g. search input box or . The search input box may be a search input box for an application launcher or any other search input box for example a search input box for a browser. The one or more user interactions with the search input box may include a selection of the search input box e.g. touching a touchscreen at the search input box or placing a cursor in the search input box or one or more keystrokes e.g. using a keyboard or a keypad while the search input box is selected.

In step the computing device provides the one or more user interactions with the search input box to multiple search engines. The one or more user interactions may be provided to the multiple search engines via a launcher search API. Each of the multiple search engines searches data associated with a corresponding application. One or more of the corresponding applications may have a corresponding data store. For example a browser app store application may correspond to a browser app data store. At least one corresponding application is a local application and at least one corresponding application is an online application. The local application s may include a local file application a local photograph application or a local music player application. The online application s may include a web search application or a social networking application.

In step the computing device receives within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 100 milliseconds 500 milliseconds 1 second 2 seconds 10 seconds etc. after providing the one or more user interactions to the multiple search engines search results from the multiple search engines. The predetermined amount of time may be specified by the launcher search API.

In step the computing device presents at least a portion of the received search results. The presented search results may be selected based on a ranking of search results from the multiple search engines. For example search results having rankings within a ranking range rankings exceeding a threshold ranking or rankings below a threshold ranking may be presented. After step the process ends.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the permanent storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. The permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device for example a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device for example a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device . Like the permanent storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject technology are stored in the system memory the permanent storage device or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for presenting search results from multiple sources in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the input and output device interfaces and . The input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices for example cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices for example a touch screen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the electronic system can be a part of a network of computers for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks for example the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

The above described features and applications can be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage or flash storage for example a solid state drive which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software technologies can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software technologies. In some implementations multiple software technologies can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software technology described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components for example microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some aspects of the disclosed subject matter a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components illustrated above should not be understood as requiring such separation and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims where reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase for example an aspect does not imply that the aspect is essential to the subject technology or that the aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase for example an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase for example a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase for example a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

