---

title: Method for encrypting and embedding information in a URL for content delivery
abstract: A method for accessing a remote network includes identifying a content server associated with the remote network, generating a uniform resource locator, embedding additional data in the uniform resource locator, encrypting the uniform resource locator, and accessing a server in the remote network identified by the uniform resource locator. The method further includes wherein the additional data comprises authentication data, a delivery session identification, a time stamp, or comprises subscriber identification data. The URL may provide access to the content server for a time period indicated by the time stamp. The method includes wherein at least the subscriber identification data prevents unauthorized sharing of the URL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887292&OS=08887292&RS=08887292
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08887292
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130415
---
The instant application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 847 731 filed Jul. 30 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 479 298. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 847 731 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is directed to a service delivery platform and more particularly to a system apparatus and method for embedding information in an encrypted uniform resource locator URL .

With the proliferation of the interoperability of networks and the ability to have a single network access multiple remote networks there is now the ability for a user on one network to access content on one of the other remote networks. Access to such remote networks is typically provided through a uniform resource locator URL . A user will provide the URL to his or her home network and the home network will resolve the URL to determine the appropriate network which to route the requests. For example a user in Mexico may want to access content on a network in the United States. The network in Mexico would have to know something about the structure of the network in the United States for this to occur. Assuming the proper routing logic and interconnections are in place a URL may provide the destination point for the user.

Such remote access is powerful for those seeking content but provides serious security risks for the content providers and the remote network being accessed. There is no way of uniquely identifying or authorizing an individual user or subscriber to access content. Moreover once releasing the URL there is no way for the content provider to prevent the sharing of the URL with unauthorized users. Finally there is currently no way to limit the time duration that such access is granted leaving the content owner exposed to obligations to provide access to content it may have legitimately sold that has never been accessed by the purchaser even as that content has been updated.

As such there is a need for a system and method for embedding additional data in a URL and further encrypting that URL with the additional data to provide secure access to a user on a remote network.

A method for accessing a remote network includes identifying a content server associated with the remote network generating a uniform resource locator embedding additional data in the uniform resource locator encrypting the uniform resource locator and accessing a server in the remote network identified by the uniform resource locator. The method further includes wherein the additional data comprises authentication data a delivery session identification a time stamp or comprises subscriber identification data. The URL may provide access to the content server for a time period indicated by the time stamp. The method includes wherein at least the subscriber identification data prevents unauthorized sharing of the URL.

The disclosure also includes a method of embedding additional data in a uniform resource locator including generating a unique uniform resource locator comprising a data path identifying additional data to be embedded in the URL the additional data comprising a user identifier and a unique delivery session ID and encrypting the unique URL including the additional data. The method further includes embedding a time stamp indicating a time period during which the URL will provide access. The additional data prevents unauthorized use of the URL.

For the purposes of describing an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure reference will be made to the figures set forth above. With reference to there is shown an exemplary block diagram of a computing environment in which the present disclosure may be implemented. There is shown a network which may for example be a cellular wireless network including but not limited to CDMA TDMA 2.5G 3G and 4G type networks. Network may be any other type of communications network as well including but not limited to LANa WANa Wi Fi Wi Max IP and other data networks including the Internet. Network may be wired or wireless or a combination of the two. Exemplary user equipment UE is shown as handset and laptop each of which is connected to network via a cellular network. For the purposes of description of an embodiment UE will be referred to generically in this disclosure as UE . Also connected to network are external networks and . Each of the external networks and are connected to network through gateways or other communications network elements as known by those skilled in the art and may include for example other cellular networks or the internet. Exemplary servers are shown in communication with external network . Exemplary servers may include servers operated by content providers or content aggregators which may be accessible by users of external network or any other external networks.

An exemplary embodiment of a more robust network system in which the disclosure may be implemented is shown in in which a service delivery hub is used as an access point to several external networks. While the present disclosure will be described at least in part with respect to there is no requirement that a service delivery hub architecture be used. The disclosure is applicable to any server or sales portal. With reference to there is shown a system having a service delivery hub in communication with network operations and . As described more fully herein the service delivery hub provides a central access point for third party application service providers ASPs aggregators and enabler providers and includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs provided by the network provider or other third parties. The service delivery hub also includes a charging gateway which provides the capability for third parties to monetize applications and a settlement center which balances accounts of multiple parties and network operators in accordance with contractual fee splitting arrangements or other mechanisms determined by the parties so called recursive settlements. The service delivery hub also includes a control center to manage access to the system.

Referring again to there is shown a third party application server in communication with the service delivery hub . The service delivery hub is targeted to produce an integration layer for access to the network operations and specifically network elements operational support systems and business support systems OSS BSS and Internet application service providers ASPs . The network operations and also referred to as networks herein are illustrative only and could vary in number from one to many networks. The networks may be stand alone networks in a particular geographic area which areas may be delineated on a country or state basis or any other geographic distinction. The networks may also be delineated by network operator or network type. There may also be more than one network in any one geographic region.

In the exemplary embodiment of network operations are designated as being in the country of Columbia network operations in Peru and network operations in Ecuador. Within each network operations there is shown a representative sample of network subsystems contained therein and in the case of network operations in Columbia shown numbered as . Those subsystems within network operations include the short message service center SMSC multi media service center MMSC wireless access protocol WAP gateway CPW CMG enterprise data warehouse EDW customer care subscriber interface module SIM browsing and operations and maintenance O M . It will be understood by those skilled in the art that not all subsystems are necessarily found in each network operations and there may be other subsystems not listed above for example enterprise application integration PGW and emergency management systems EMS are illustrated as part of network operation but not as part of network operation .

The service delivery hub exposes access to third party applications to network services provided by the network subsystems. The service delivery hub supports third party developed services and controls application usage of network operations and third party services. It is preferred that the service delivery hub employ industry standards known to those skilled in the art or to be developed by the industry including but not limited to Parlay X SOAP REST HTTPS JKD 1.5 XML SSL X509 certification for transport security and WSSE username token profile security.

The service delivery hub has interfaces into each of the subsystems within network operations . An exemplary methodology for using those interfaces may include establishing a VPN tunnel from the service delivery hub to the subsystem of interest. Thus if an application residing on the third party application system server desires access to SMSC the service delivery hub will establish a VPN tunnel or other connection to SMSC thereby providing the application access to SMSC

In conjunction with the exemplary embodiments of and content may be provided through server on external network and be made available to UE through network . In order to provide such access a modified uniform resource locator URL may be utilized. An unmodified uniform resource locator is a uniform resource identifier URI and typically comprises data that specifies where an identified resource is available on a network and the mechanism for retrieving it. Unmodified URLs are known in the art and may comprise a scheme name or protocol a hostname or an IP address a port number the path through the network a query string and an anchor.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure content may be made available to UE through network using a modified and then encrypted URL. In addition to the typical data included in a URL additional data may be included in the modified URL and may for example comprise a delivery session identifier may be a one time identifier that is verifiable by the remote network a time stamp a content identifier permission and authentication data a MSISDN or other subscriber or UE information. The additional data may serve the function of uniquely identifying a subscriber authorized to access content found at the URL on the remote network. Such access may be further limited to a time period surrounding the generation of the modified URL. The additional data may also serve to prevent the sharing of a URL with unauthorized subscribers.

The modified URL may be encrypted to prevent or reduce the possibility of unauthorized copying and access. The URL may for example be encrypted using the AES256 method of encryption or any other type of encryption method now known or to be developed.

In operation a UE may desire to access hosted content external to the network managing the current browsing session of the UE . The external content may be stored in server on external network . In order to securely deliver the hosted content to UE the method includes creating a unique and encrypted path and additional data embedded in a URL that redirects the UE to the server on network . The server decrypts the URL which provides access to the content as well as access permission information verifying access to the content. The method securely masks the embedded details of the URL using encryption while providing content identification on the external network without necessarily having knowledge of the external network . As part of the creation of the content metadata the content provider may provide a path structure that may be included in the encrypted data thus when decrypted the content provider will be able to decipher its own path structure to access the content for delivery. Moreover the method provides access control limitations so that the URL may not be saved copied or reused in any fashion without proper authorization. A timer along with user license information may be included in the URL. The timer may be used to register when the content was initially accessed may validate the access for a predetermined or variable time period. Upon the expiration of the time period the UE must request a new unique URL for access to the same content. The included license serves to identify the user for the content providers records and may also be used in a call back function to the UE as an additional verification of the validity of the license to the content.

The system and method provide certain benefits. It creates a trusted relationship wherein an unknown user operating UE may purchase content on an external network or the Internet and the delivery of such content while providing an excellent user experience. The user is able to pass securely from the purchase process on one site or one network to the delivery process of another site or another network without either entity having any real knowledge of the other s internal processes.

While the method for uniquely embedding additional data in a URL and encrypting that modified URL has been described in connection with the various embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment for performing the same types of functionality in service delivery without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method is not limited to any particular type of network or relationship between a hosted network and a remote network and may include operations on the Internet. Any type of telecommunications network may be supported including but not limited to GSM CDMA EDGE 3G 4G LTE WiFi Wi Max the Internet or any other wired or wireless network. While an exemplary list of command parameters has been described a subset of those parameters and additional parameters may be defined by network operators or content providers. Therefore the system and method should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

