---

title: Systems and methods for conference calling using personal URL
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call organizer. One method includes receiving, from a conference call organizer, a request to be placed into a conference call associated with a URL assigned to the organizer; and receiving, from a prospective conference call participant, a request to be placed into the conference call associated with the URL. Another method includes receiving, from a first user, through a web page of a URL assigned to the first user, a first phone number at which the first user can be called; receiving, from a second user, through the web page of the URL, a second phone number at which the second user can be called; and initiating phone calls to the first user at the first number and the second user at the second number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855285&OS=08855285&RS=08855285
owner: Speek Inc.
number: 08855285
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to conference calling over telephones mobile devices and or computers using PSTN online and or VoIP technologies. More specifically exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for initiating conference calling using a personal URL provided to call participants.

Conference calls today are typically initiated and joined using a complex series of steps. First a person who wishes to organize a conference call must register a new account with a company that provides conference calling services. The organizer typically must provide the company with information such as a full name address phone number e mail address a username and a password. In some cases the conference calling company may charge a monthly fee or per minute fees for the ability to initiate conference calls in which case the organizer might also provide the company with a credit card number expiration date security code and billing address.

If the organizer is successful in opening a new account the conference calling service typically provides the organizer with at least three long numbers a dial in number a conference room number and a moderator number. The organizer is instructed to provide prospective call participants with the dial in number and conference room number for them to enter at a call time but to keep the moderator number secret for use in initiating the call at the call time. In some cases the conference calling company provides even more numbers to the organizer. For example the company might provide the organizer with both toll free e.g. 1 800 or 1 877 numbers and local ten digit numbers that the organizer and participants can use as dial in numbers along with information about the different fees associated with dialing in through the toll free number s vs. the local ten digit numbers. The local ten digit numbers might be provided in a long list of local numbers corresponding to major metropolitan areas which users can dial based on their current location to avoid fees associated with long distance calls or fees charged by the conference calling company to use the toll free dial in number.

Thus the organizer is often confronted with a web page or e mail containing as many as 20 30 different phone numbers and dial in numbers codes and or pins at least two of which and possibly more the organizer must provide to prospective conference call participants. However the organizer must be careful to avoid sharing the moderator number sometimes referred to as the moderator pin in place of the conference room number. In some cases the conference room number sometimes referred to as an access code or pin may be a phone number familiar to the organizer such as the organizer s phone number or the moderator pin might be a ten digit number that resembles a telephone number adding to confusion associated with initiating and managing conference calls.

Even if an organizer successfully provides participants with the right combination of numbers the correct dial in number s and conference room code and also retains the moderator number or pin for entering to initiate the call additional problems may occur. First any one of the prospective call participants may mis dial the toll free or local ten digit dial in number and or they might mis dial the conference room code. In addition the call organizer might mis dial one or more of the toll free or ten digit dial in number the conference room code and the moderator code. With these existing technologies a conference call will only be successfully initiated if each and every one of the call participants and organizer correctly enter the more than nineteen digits assigned to them.

Moreover because the dial in numbers conference room numbers and moderator pins are not memorable call participants are required to keep all of these numbers readily on hand when they are preparing to dial in to a conference call. Anyone familiar with these dial in techniques has experienced the frustrating process of looking back and forth between an e mail calendar invite or paper which contains the dial in numbers and a phone where those numbers must be entered. The process is susceptible to entering the wrong dial in number or conference room code. Likely thousands of people each year experience the frustration of waiting on a conference call for another participant or organizer only to find out that they or their other participants entered the wrong conference room code. Moreover because these conference call numbers are not memorable dialing in while away from a computer such as from a mobile device is even more challenging. Participants have to write down the dial in information before the call or switch back and forth between a phone interface and e mail or calendar interface to obtain the required access numbers. In short existing techniques for initiating and joining conference calls are replete with inefficiencies and disadvantages costing users significant frustration and wasted time and productivity.

Accordingly a need exists for systems and methods for initiating conference calling using more modern telephonic and Internet technologies. More specifically a need exists for systems and methods for initiating conference calling using a personal URL provided to call participants.

According to certain embodiments methods are disclosed for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call organizer. One method includes receiving from a conference call organizer a request to be placed into a conference call associated with a URL assigned to the organizer and receiving from a prospective conference call participant a request to be placed into the conference call associated with the URL.

According to certain embodiments systems are disclosed for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call organizer. One system includes a data storage device storing instructions for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call organizer and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including receiving from a conference call organizer a request to be placed into a conference call associated with a URL assigned to the organizer and receiving from a prospective conference call participant a request to be placed into the conference call associated with the URL.

According to certain embodiments methods are disclosed for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call user. One method includes receiving from a first user through a web page of a URL assigned to the first user a first phone number at which the first user can be called receiving from a second user through the web page of the URL a second phone number at which the second user can be called and initiating phone calls to the first user at the first number and the second user at the second number.

According to certain embodiments systems are disclosed for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call user. One system includes a data storage device storing instructions for managing conference calling using a URL assigned to a conference call user and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including receiving from a first user through a web page of a URL assigned to the first user a first phone number at which the first user can be called receiving from a second user through the web page of the URL a second phone number at which the second user can be called and initiating phone calls to the first user at the first number and the second user at the second number.

Additional objects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The objects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the disclosed embodiments as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The present disclosure describes among other things systems and methods for enabling individuals to initiate a voice conference call using a personal URL that identifies a user s personal dedicated conference bridge line. According to certain embodiments the URL can be distributed by the originator of the conference call to the other participants by email instant message text message or other means creating a link that can be clicked on to join the conference call.

Participants who receive the organizer s URL and visit the web page associated with the organizer s URL may be prompted to enter a phone number where they can be reached or to join via a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP connection to a conference bridging service that bridges all participants into a single conference call. Specifically if the participant wishes to join the conference call using conventional voice telephony from a landline or mobile phone the participant can enter his her phone number and a conference calling system may call the participant back at that number joining the participant to the conference call using the voice telephony. Alternatively the user can join the call using Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP connection to a conference bridging service that bridges all participants into a single conference call.

In one embodiment all participants may join the conference call and be bridged into a shared web page where call participants can visually see who is on the line who is talking and the names and or phone numbers of all call participants. Moreover participants may join the conference call from a mobile device or from a desktop using VoIP or by means of a conventional telephony link using a conferee s phone number. The presently disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using a combination of web applications and mobile apps such as iOS and Android and the personal URLs can be emailed or transmitted through e mail SMS or other means to potential conferees.

Turning now to the figures is a conceptual diagram of a method by which conference calling may be initiated from a personal URL according to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. depicts an organizer and a plurality of participants . depicts an overview of a process by which organizer may initiate a conference call with participants using a personalized URL as opposed to a traditional dial in number and access code or pin. Specifically organizer may have obtained a personalized static URL from a conference calling service consistent with the presently disclosed systems and methods. For example organizer may have received a URL illustrated in this case as www.speek.com organizername. It should be appreciated that the domain of the URL shown here as speek.com may be any domain associated with the conference calling system practicing the presently disclosed embodiments. The path of the URL shown here as organizername may be any word phrase name or number selected by the organizer.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure the organizer may enable a conference call by sharing the organizer s personal URL with the participants by any desired means Step . For example the organizer may share the URL with the participants by voice telephone short message service SMS instant message IM e mail mobile application or any other possible means for sharing a URL. The organizer may share the personal URL with the participants at any time before a planned conference call. In one embodiment the organizer may share the personal URL with the participants as soon as the organizer obtains the personal URL and well before any call is scheduled. Thus participants may have the personal URL on file and accessible anytime a conference call is planned even though organizer may also send participants the URL at the time of scheduling a call.

Still referring to the organizer and participants may schedule a call at any time and by any means such as by e mail phone calendar invitation voice etc. Then at or around the proposed call time the organizer and participants may visit the organizer s personal URL Step . For example as illustrated in organizer may visit his or her personal URL at a laptop computer participant may visit the organizer s personal URL at a desktop computer participant may visit the organizer s personal URL at desktop computer and participant may visit the organizer s personal URL using mobile device . Of course the depicted use of a desktop computer laptop computer or mobile device is only illustrative of the ability to access the organizer s personal URL using any known means and each of the individuals may use any desired device to visit the organizer s personal URL. In one embodiment participants may visit the organizer s personal URL by clicking a link to the URL in an e mail or SMS received from the organizer or by copying and pasting the received e mail into a web browser thereby avoiding the need to type the personal URL and reducing the likelihood of visiting the wrong URL.

In one embodiment when organizer and participants visit the web page associated with the organizer s URL each of those individuals may be prompted by the web page to enter a phone number where they can currently be reached. For example the web page might display a prompt to Enter Your Phone Number and We ll Call You. Each of the organizer and participants may then enter a phone number that the conference calling system can call back to reach each of them respectively Step . For example shows each of organizer and participants as entering a phone number where they desire to be called by the conferencing system including organizer entering the phone number of his or her mobile device participant entering the phone number of his or her landline telephone and participant entering the phone number of his or her mobile device .

By contrast and as an alternative shows how participant may have visited the organizer s personal URL with a mobile device having installed thereon a mobile app of the conferencing system. As a result participant may be connected to the organizer s conference call through the telephone of mobile device without having to enter the phone number of that telephone. In addition in one embodiment if organizer is already logged in to the conferencing system on his or her computer then organizer may see that his or her phone number is pre entered into the website of the conferencing system. In one embodiment participant may instead of entering a callback number request to be placed into the organizer s conference call through a VoIP connection using his or her computer . Again it should be appreciated that while depicts one exemplary combination of an organizer and participants optionally i entering a phone number of a mobile device ii entering a phone number of a landline telephone iii joining the call through a VoIP connection of computer and or iv joining the call through a mobile application of mobile device any combination of devices and connections may be used independent of whether a user is an organizer or a participant.

Once organizer and participants have entered their call back phone numbers into the web page of the personal URL and or requested to be joined through a mobile app for VoIP or called at a number pre entered into the system the conferencing system may call the organizer and participants at the provided number Step and or join participants through the VoIP connection or mobile application. For example as shown in the mobile device of organizer may ring until organizer answers the call from the conferencing system the landline telephone of participant may ring until participant answers the call from the conferencing system the mobile device of participant may ring until participant answers the call from the conferencing system. Alternatively or additionally the conferencing system may initiate a VoIP call with participant through computer and or initiate a VoIP call through the mobile app or cellular call through the phone s cellular connection with participant through mobile device .

As each of the organizer and participants establish voice communication with the conferencing system through their selected means the conferencing system may begin placing those individuals into a common conference call or conference bridge line associated with the organizer s personal URL as will be described in more detail below. Accordingly each of the organizer and participants may have very quickly and easily joined a common conference call by simply visiting a web page of the organizer s personal URL and without dialing a conference call dial in number or entering a conference room number access code or moderator pin.

In one embodiment one or more of web server s application server s database s voice platform and or SIP interface may embody a communications system which may be operated either wholly or partially by a conference calling service. Moreover one or more of web server s application server s database s voice platform and or SIP interface may be configured to provide and execute the method described above with respect to and the methods that will be described in more detail below with respect to .

In one embodiment user devices may be owned and used by one or more people who may be any individuals desiring to participate in conference calling consistent with the presently disclosed embodiments. User devices may include any type of electronic device configured to make telephone calls over PSTN and or send and receive data such as VoIP data websites and content over the Internet .

For example each of user devices may be a personal computer laptop and or server disposed in communication with the Internet . Each of user devices may be a traditional telephone configured to make and receive calls over PSTN . Each of user devices may include a mobile device smartphone and or personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer or any other kind of mobile device or touchscreen enabled device disposed in communication with the Internet and also configured to make and receive calls over PSTN . In one embodiment participation in a conference call according to the present embodiments may involve at least a connection to the Internet and optionally a connection to PSTN . Thus a participant associated with computer may be able to make VoIP phone calls over the Internet but may alternatively receive a call from communications system using telephone via PSTN . Likewise a participant associated with laptop may be able to make VoIP phone calls over the Internet but may alternatively receive a call from communications system using mobile device via PSTN . By contrast a participant associated with user device may participate in conference calls using a VoIP connection through the Internet or over PSTN since device may be connected to both networks.

Each of user devices may have a web browser and or mobile browser installed for receiving and displaying electronic content received from one or more of web server and application server . Each of user devices may have an operating system configured to execute a web or mobile browser and any type of application such as a mobile application. Each of user devices may be configured to execute JavaScript code to facilitate practicing the methods described with respect to and .

Web server s may be owned and or operated by a conference calling service e.g. the entity operating communications system . Web server s may be configured to communicate information such as web page data interfaces user elements etc. to any browsers of user devices . For example web server s may send web page data for displaying a virtual conferencing user interface including prompts to enter phone numbers messaging interfaces in call interfaces etc. as will be described in more detail below with respect to the exemplary screenshots of .

Application server s may be owned and or operated by a conference calling service e.g. the entity operating communications system . Application server s may be configured to receive information received from web server s store received information in database system and communicate instructions and information to voice platform for executing the methods described above with respect to and below with respect to . Application server s may also be configured to communicate information such as web page data interfaces user elements etc. to any desktop clients and or mobile applications of user devices . In one embodiment application server s may implement any type or combination of application programming interfaces APIs to communicate data between web server s database and or voice platform .

In one embodiment voice platform may include any type of telecommunications platform configured to execute conference calling between both PSTN and VoIP environments. In one embodiment voice platform and or SIP interface may operate a cross platform telephony platform designed to operate VoIP calling and interconnect phone calls with PSTN among other things. In one embodiment voice platform may be configured to interact with an API of application server s to provide user devices with conference calling XML RPC control of live calls interactive voice response IVR services TTS ASR text to speech automatic speech recognition public switched telephone network PSTN interconnectivity supporting both analogue and digital and voice over IP protocols including SIP SCCP H.323 XMPP GoogleTalk t.38 among others. In one embodiment voice platform and SIP interface may be implemented in an open source platform such as FreeSWITCH or Asterisk.

Database may be configured to store any events and or data that interacts with communication system or its components. For example database may store user profile information including usernames passwords URLs phone numbers e mail addresses etc. In one embodiment database may be indexed or otherwise structured to facilitate prompt recall of data for each user. In one embodiment database may store all events that occur in imitating and conducting conference calls through communications system . For example database may store call times start end length dialing time answer time etc. phone numbers documents shared text messages exchanged and so on. In one embodiment database may permanently store and provide access to any files or text shared during any conference call. In one embodiment database may be a MySQL database or a NoSQL database.

Any of user devices web server s application server s and voice platform may include any type or combination of computing systems such as handheld devices personal computers servers clustered computing machines and or cloud computing systems. In one embodiment each of user devices web server s application server s and voice platform may be an assembly of hardware including a memory a central processing unit CPU and or optionally a user interface. The memory may include any type of RAM or ROM embodied in a physical storage medium such as magnetic storage including floppy disk hard disk or magnetic tape semiconductor storage such as solid state disk SSD or flash memory optical disc storage or magneto optical disc storage. The CPU may include one or more processors for processing data according to instructions stored in the memory. The functions of the processor may be provided by a single dedicated processor or by a plurality of processors. Moreover the processor may include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware or any other hardware capable of executing software. The user interface may include any type or combination of input output devices such as a display monitor touchpad touchscreen microphone camera keyboard and or mouse.

In one embodiment method may begin with a registration process in which an organizer selects a user name not shown . The username may be a memorable name address or number that the organizer wishes to be included in his or her personal URL. Thus communications system may provide organizer with a personal static URL step . In one embodiment the personal URL provided to the organizer may have as its path the username selected by the organizer . For example as described with respect to if organizer selects the username organizername then communications system may assign to the organizer the personal static URL www.speek.com organizername assuming speek.com is the domain of the conference calling service .

Method may then include the organizer sending one or more prospective call participants the organizer s personal URL possibly along with a call time step . As described above organizer may send the personal URL to the participants at any time after receiving the personal URL from the communications system . In one embodiment organizer may send his or her personal URL to every one of his or her social and or professional contacts independent of any call scheduled with them. For example organizer might publish his or her personal URL on a social network and or include it in an e mail signature. Alternatively organizer might only send his or her personal URL to prospective call participants such as in the body of an e mail proposing a conference call and or in a calendar invitation anytime between when a call is scheduled and when the call occurs.

At or around the time of a proposed conference call participants may request the web page of the organizer s personal URL step . If organizer sent his or her personal URL in an e mail SMS calendar invitation or some other electronic means then participants may request the web page of the URL by simply clicking on the URL link in the e mail SMS etc. or by copying and pasting the URL into a browser address bar. Even if organizer provided his or her personal URL by voice or some other means that is not easily accessible because the organizer may have partially created the URL to include a memorable name or phrase the participants may more likely be able to easily remember and type the personal URL into a browser address bar.

When each of the participants visits the web page of the organizer s personal URL the communications system may display a request for the participant s phone number step . For example one or more of web server s may display a web page containing a request for any phone number where the participant can be immediately reached. For example the web page might include a prompt to Enter Your Phone Number and We ll Call You. 

Also at or around the time of the proposed conference call the organizer may also request the web page of the organizer s personal URL step . In other words the organizer may visit his or her own assigned personal static URL. Because the organizer may have a static URL assigned as his or her personal URL for use in any desired conference calls the organizer may have set the URL as a bookmark and or a home page in his or her web browser and or saved a browser link to the URL on the organizer s operating system desktop.

When the organizer visits his or her own personal URL to initiate join the conference call the content of the web page may change depending on whether the organizer is signed in to the web page e.g. whether the conferencing service has a cookie stored on the organizer s web browser and one or more settings selected by the organizer step . For example if web server detects e.g. from a browser cookie that the organizer is the individual requesting the organizer s personal URL then the web page may include for example a welcome message to the organizer and or indicia reflecting a default phone number typically used or selected by the organizer. In addition or alternatively the organizer may be placed into an account page or dashboard for example if the organizer logs in or has prevsiously logged in with proper credentials within a predetermined time interval. Thus organizer might be presented with a user element e.g. button link to request to be called at the pre entered phone number. Alternatively if organizer is requesting the web page of his or her personal URL from an unrecognized device or browser then organizer may be presented with a request for any phone number where the organizer can be immediately reached. For example the web page might include a prompt to Enter Your Phone Number and We ll Call You. 

As shown in having been prompted to enter their phone number one or more of participants may enter their phone number at the web page of the organizer s URL step . In addition at or around the same time organizer may either enter his or her phone number or click a link to be called at a pre entered phone number step . In one embodiment as participants and or organizer enter their phone numbers and or request to be called at a pre entered phone number a web server receiving the phone numbers and or requests to be called at those phone numbers may transfer that data to application server s and voice platform to initiate phone calls to participants and organizer . Thus communications system may initiate calls to the organizer and one or more participants at the provided phone numbers as they request to be called step .

As communications system initiates calls to participants and organizer such as through voice platform and SIP interface and PSTN and or the Internet the telephones and or computers associated with the provided phone numbers may begin to ring or otherwise indicate an incoming call. Each of participants and organizer may then answer the phone steps as shown in and described above with respect to . As participants and organizer answer their respective phones or join through their computer VoIP connections communications system may place them into a conference call step . For example communications system may use the cross platform telecommunications application implemented on voice platform and SIP interface to join the voice connections with each participant into a common conference call bridge.

As shown in in one embodiment as communications system places one or more of participants and organizer into the common conference call bridge the communications system may also send the participants and organizer an in call web page steps . For example in one embodiment the web page of the organizer s personal URL may update in real time based on the interaction of participants and organizer with their telephones and with the web page. For example when each of participants and organizer provide their respective phone numbers and ask to be called the web page of the organizer s URL may refresh or update to indicate that communications system is calling the respective user s phone. Once the participants and organizer have answered the phone the web page of the organizer s URL may refresh or update to display a status of the conference call and one or more events associated with the conference call as will be described in more detail below.

As shown in a user either an organizer or participant may initiate joining a conference call step . As discussed above the user may initiate joining a conference call through any of a desktop or laptop computer tablet device mobile device telephone etc. Upon joining a conference call such as by visiting a web page of an organizer s URL the user may request to subscribe to updates associated with the conference call step .

The user may then send a callback phone number to the web and application servers step . The web and application servers may ask or instruct the voice platform to call the user s callback number step . The voice platform optionally through SIP interface may call the user at the provided callback number step . The user may answer the call from the voice platform step . Upon detecting that the user answered the call and upon placing the user into the desired conference call the voice platform may publish as an event that the user joined the conference call step . For example voice platform may inform application server s that the user has entered the conference such that the application server s may update any users associated with the conference call such as by updating the website of the organizer s personal URL. Thus upon publishing the event of the user s arrival to the conference room the web and application servers may notify the user and any other users associated with the conference call of the event that that the user joined the conference call step .

In one embodiment at any time during a conference call the user may initiate a web based event step . For example the user may request to send a text note or message to other users in the conference call through a display on the web page of the organizer s URL. Alternatively or additionally the user may request to upload and share a file e.g. a photo document audio video clip etc. with other users in the conference call through the web page of the organizer s URL. The user might request to initiate a private chat or instant message window with one or more of the other users in the conference call. The user might alternatively request to share a display of his or her computer screen or desktop with one or more of the other users in the conference call. Upon receiving the user s request to initiate the web event web and application servers may publish the event . For example in one embodiment web and application servers may interact with a cloud hosted messaging system to push real time data about the event to the other users web tablet and or mobile devices. Web and application servers may therefore notify other users about the user s web event step by virtue of the users subscription to events associated with the conference call during step . For example web and application servers may cooperate to refresh or update the web page of the organizer s URL and or send text or mobile app updates to the users mobile devices.

In one embodiment at any time during a conference call the user may initiate a call event step . For example the user may talk into his or her phone drop off the call mute his or her line place his or her telephone on hold press a number or pound or star key or perform any other telephony based action. Upon detecting the user s call event voice platform may publish the event by informing application server s about the user s call event step . Upon receiving notice of the user s call event web and application servers may publish the event. For example in one embodiment web and application servers may interact with a cloud hosted messaging system to push real time data about the event to the other users web tablet and or mobile devices. Web and application servers may therefore notify other users about the user s web event step . For example web and application servers may cooperate to refresh or update the web page of the organizer s URL and or send text or mobile app updates to the users mobile devices.

Once the user has answered the call from the communications system the web page visible to the user still associated with the organizer s URL may update to display an in call page as shown in . As shown in in one embodiment a user may manipulate user element to change a title viewed by the call participants in relation to the conference call. In one embodiment as shown in the in call page may depict a plurality of avatars each avatar being associated with one of the users joined into the conference call. In one embodiment avatars may be animations or photos of the users which may have been uploaded by the respective users. Alternatively avatars may be replaced with live video feeds of the joined call participants using one or more cameras of the respective participants computers or mobile devices. As shown in in one embodiment avatars may be depicted as being gathered around an object which may be a photo or illustration of any object such a conference table a water cooler a white board a campfire or any other image selected by or uploaded by the organizer or one of the participants.

In one embodiment the in call page may include a user element by which one or more of the users may initiate sharing of one or more files. User element may or may not be associated with the object . In one embodiment users may drag files e.g. photos documents presentations video audio clips etc. from their local computers or mobile devices onto the user element to automatically upload and share those files with the other call participants.

In one embodiment the in call page may include a user element by which a user may initiate textual communication with one or more other users in the conference call a user element by which any users in the conference call may request to add another user to the conference call and a user element to end the call. depicts an exemplary text interface that may pop up or otherwise appear upon a user s selection of user element . Text interface may enable the user to communicate by text with all of the participants in the conference call or to individually select a subset of one or more participants with whom to communicate by text. depicts a user interface that may pop up or otherwise appear upon a user s selection of user element . As shown in in one embodiment any user in the conference call may select user element and then interact with user interface to request to join another user into the conference call such as by phone e mail or SMS. For example user interface may request the user to enter the contact information e.g. phone number e mail address social networking alias etc. for the method the user requests the communications system to use to contact and join the prospective new participant.

The foregoing screenshots of are only exemplary in nature and for purposes of illustrating possible user interfaces consistent with the systems and methods described with respect to . It should be appreciated that any other style of a web interface may be used to carry out the methods of . Moreover any of the depicted screenshots may be implemented in any of a desktop client web browser mobile browser and or mobile application depending on available user devices and user preferences.

By eliminating the use of the traditional dial in number conference room number and moderator number the presently disclosed systems and methods allow users to more quickly and easily join calls without having to look up these numbers to join the call. Additionally the presently disclosed systems and methods allow participants to join either via a phone call made directly to the participant from the conference system if the user is on a landline or mobile phone using voice technology or via a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP session on the participant s computer or mobile device.

Although the presently disclosed systems and methods are described with respect to audio conferencing it should be appreciated that they may be equally as applicable to commence an audiovisual conference as well. In addition there is no limit to the number of participants that can quickly and easily join a conference call.

Other embodiments of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

