---

title: Methods and apparatus for managing group membership for group communications
abstract: Improved group communications methods which are well suited for a wireless environment are described. End nodes request that access nodes make changes in group membership information maintained at the access node. The access node responds to the requests by a response signal indicating a grant or denial of the request. Requests may be to add or remove the end node, e.g., a mobile wireless terminal, from a particular group membership list identified in the request signal. The access node maintains a detailed list of group members and uses the information to control how signals, e.g., packets, are transmitted to the group members. Group membership information may be updated at the access node at the time of handoff and/or an end node enters the cell or otherwise changes its point of network attachment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503866&OS=09503866&RS=09503866
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09503866
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130709
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 204 769 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING GROUP MEMBERSHIP FOR GROUP COMMUNICATIONS filed Aug. 16 2005 which claimed priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 602 021 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING GROUP MEMBERSHIP FOR GROUP COMMUNICATIONS filed Aug. 16 2004. The present application incorporates by reference each of these applications.

This invention relates to communications systems and more particularly to methods and apparatus for managing group membership for group communications.

In a typical cellular communication network a set of geographically dispersed base stations provide wireless access to a communications infrastructure. Users with wireless communication devices or terminals are able to establish a direct communication link with a suitable base station and then exchange information with other users and or end systems throughout the communication network.

IP multicast technology provides an efficient packet delivery service for group communications e. g. one to many or many to many . The use of IP multicast reduces the bandwidth utilization for group communications. This is especially important for supporting group communications over wireless media where bandwidth is a scarce resource.

When using IP multicast a group of recipients is associated with an IP multicast address. A data source addresses and sends a single copy of each IP datagram intended for the group of recipients to the IP multicast group address. The routed network will replicate and forward each datagram as needed to deliver it to the routers interconnecting all of the group members. Specialized IP multicast routing protocols are used to form the delivery trees needed for copying and forwarding multicast datagrams. IP multicast is a receiver oriented service in that receivers join a given multicast group to receive datagrams sent to the corresponding IP multicast group address. End systems and access routers communicate with each other via a group membership protocol e.g. Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP to enable the access router to maintain information on active multicast group membership necessary for building the delivery trees.

The present invention is directed to methods and apparatus for implementing group communications e.g. multicast communications methods and apparatus. The methods and apparatus of the invention are directed to the subject matter described and claimed in the present application.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention are particularly well suited for use in wireless communications systems. In such systems different end nodes which may be wireless terminals used by different individual users have different communications requirements e.g. power coding rate modulation timing and or other signal requirements. These differing signal requirements are often a function of differences in channel conditions and or end node location which exist between different end nodes and an access node. The conditions including channel condition and location can change over time and as an end node moves within the coverage area of an access node. Each end node may be a member of zero one or more multicast groups at any point in time. Access nodes serve as the end node s point of attachment e.g. via a wireless communications link to a communication system e.g. cellular network. Group membership can vary with time.

Different multicast applications can be executing on different end nodes with each end node being a member of one multiple or no multicast groups at any point in time. Within an area serviced by a transmitter e.g. access node s sector or cell transmitter group membership may change due to actions by the group member s e.g. as a user of an end node decides to enter or exit a group e.g. by signaling a multicast application to make the desired group membership change or by terminating the multicast application. Membership can also change as the result of an end node dynamics e.g. a mobile node entering or leaving a cell.

In one exemplary system end nodes with wireless transmitters and receivers interact with an access node e.g. a base station which serves as the end node s network point of attachment. While remaining within the range of a transmitter e.g. an access node s cell or sector transmitter the end node can voluntarily join or leave multicast groups. At the wireless terminal joining and or leaving groups can be controlled by multicast applications which are responsive to user input e.g. signals to a multicast application generated by a user depressing a key or generating a wireless terminal input signal using another type of input device. A user s desire to join or leave a multicast group in accordance with the present invention can be signaled to the access node to which the end node is coupled by a wireless communications link.

The access node can decide to grant and or reject an end node s request to be added to a multicast group e.g. based on service information stored at the access node or available to the access node e.g. from an Authentication Accounting and Authorization AAA server. For example if a wireless terminal is not authorized e.g. does not subscribe to a multicast service corresponding to the group the wireless terminal is attempting to join the request to be added to the group may and often will be denied by the access node.

In a wireless environment where transmission bandwidth and other transmission resources are limited and often relatively costly as compared to wired communications systems for system efficiency and resource allocation purposes accurate multicast group membership information can be very useful. For example it is undesirable and wasteful to be transmitting multicast messages to members of a group when there are no longer any members of the group within the Access node s coverage area. Accordingly accurate and timely multicast group membership information is important for efficient access node operation in a wireless environment. Accurate and timely multicast group membership information also enables optimization of multicast transmissions to the set of group members.

Unfortunately known multicast communications protocols tend to provide relatively limited information about group membership at a particular access node e.g. edge router. Generally when using the known group communications methods without the invention the set of end nodes included in a multicast group are not reliably known and thus multicast transmission must be targeted to reach a pre determined coverage area. In addition the updating of this information may be on a time scale which is relatively slow and can lead to waste in a wireless environment due to signals being transmitted to end nodes which are no longer in the access node s coverage area.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention are directed to improved multicast communications techniques. Various features of the present invention are directed to improving the timeliness reliability and amount of information available at an access node regarding multicast group members which use the access node as their point of network attachment. Some of these features are achieved through the use of one or more signaling methods of the present invention. In addition to novel multicast signaling to and or from end nodes which are used to provide group membership information at an access node an access node can use handoff and or other types of information to generate and or update multicast group membership information at the access node. For example when a handoff occurs from one access node to another the access node from which the handoff occurs may update its group membership information to remove the wireless terminal which is being handed off from multicast group membership lists maintained at the access node. The access node which serves as the wireless terminal s new network point of attachment may update its multicast group membership information based on information communicated as part of the handoff operation or received from a core state management node as part of a handoff operation.

In accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the invention novel group communications signaling is used between a wireless interface at an end node e.g. wireless terminal and an access node. The signaling is designed to provide the access node accurate and reliable multicast group membership information and to provide confirmation to the end node regarding the acceptance rejection of requested group membership. In the exemplary embodiment a wireless interface is used by an end node to transmit signal to and receive signals from the access node. The wireless interface may be internal to the end node external to the end node and coupled to the end node by a connection or partially internally to the end node e.g. as may be the case where the wireless interface is implemented as a card which can be partially inserted into the end node e.g. a notebook computer or PDA. In some embodiments the wireless interface serves a single end node and is coupled to one or more internal components of the end node by a physical e.g. wired as opposed to wireless connection. The end node in various embodiments includes a group communications module to which the wireless interface is coupled e.g. by a wired connection.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the invention the wireless interface used by an end node is used to transmit a group membership information change request signal to the access node when the wireless terminal seeks to be added or removed from a multicast group. This may be e.g. in response to a signal generated by one or more multicast applications executed in the end node e.g. which operate in response to input received from a user of the end node.

The group membership information change request signal includes in some embodiments an end node identifier a multicast group identifier and information indicating whether the end node is seeking to be added or removed from the multicast group corresponding to the group identifier included in the message.

In response to receiving a group membership information change request signal if the signal requests that the end node be added to a multicast group the access node receiving the signal will in some embodiments determine if the end node sending the message is authorized to be a member of the indicated group.

If the end node is authorized to be a member of the group the access node will add the end node to a group membership list which lists the members of the multicast group which are using said access node to receive group signals. Different membership lists are maintained at the access node for different multicast groups. An end node can be a member of one multiple or no multicast groups at any point in time. Assuming the access node adds the end node to the group membership list as requested the Access Node will transmit a response signal to the end node indicating that its request to be added to the group has been granted.

If the end node is not authorized to be a member of the group indicated in the request signal the access node will not add the end node to the group membership list corresponding to the group identified in the request message. Different membership lists are maintained at the access node for different multicast groups. In the case where the end node is not authorized to be added to the group as requested the Access Node will respond to the request by transmitting a response signal to the end node indicating that its request to be added to the group has been denied.

In various exemplary embodiments a group communication module in the end node monitors for receipt by the wireless interface module of a response to each group membership information change request signal transmitted for said end node. In some embodiments the group communications module directs the wireless interface module to retransmit the group membership information change request signal when a response has not been received by the wireless interface module in a pre selected period of time in which a response to the request would normally be expected to be received. This time may vary depending on the particular system implementation but is usually a set period of time.

The group membership information change request signal is often generated either directly or indirectly in response to information supplied by a multicast group communication application operating e.g. executed by said end node. The multicast group communication application may interact directly with the group communications module. Alternatively a standard group membership client module which implements standard multicast signaling when interacting with one or more multicast group communications applications operates as an interface between the applications and the group communications module of the present invention. Thus the methods of the present invention can be used with conventional group communications applications without requiring them to support group communications signaling in accordance with the present invention. In such embodiments the standard group membership client module serves to convert between standard group communication protocol signaling and the novel request and optional response signaling used in accordance with the present invention.

Given that a response to a request to be added to a group is generated both the access node and the end nodes in a system implementing the present invention are provided with reliable group membership information.

While in some scenarios the group membership signaling of the present invention may involve more signaling than some known group communications protocols it has the potential to reduce and or eliminate unnecessary wireless transmission of multicast signals which may occur in known systems due to the unreliability and lack of detailed information regarding group membership at an access node.

As will be discussed in the detailed description below detailed group membership information at an access node offers numerous additional benefits in terms of the allocation and use of limited wireless communications resources available at the access node.

Numerous variations on the above described methods and apparatus of the present invention are possible. The detailed description which follows provides additional description of the invention as well as discussing additional exemplary embodiments features and benefits of the invention.

The exemplary communication system depicts a network that includes the application server node the session signaling server node and the mobility agent node each of which is connected to an intermediate network node by a corresponding network link respectively. The intermediate network node in the network also provides interconnectivity to network nodes that are external from the perspective of the network via network link . Network link is connected to another intermediate network node which provides further connectivity to a plurality of access nodes via network links respectively.

Each access node is depicted as providing connectivity to a plurality of N end nodes respectively via corresponding access links respectively. In the exemplary communication system each access node is depicted as using wireless technology e.g. wireless access links to provide access. A radio coverage area e.g. communications cell of each access node respectively is illustrated as a circle surrounding the corresponding access node.

The exemplary communication system is subsequently used as a basis for the description of an embodiment of the invention. Alternative embodiments of the invention include various network topologies where the number and type of network nodes the number and type of links and the interconnectivity between nodes may differ from that of the exemplary communication system depicted in .

The processor under control of various modules e.g. routines included in memory controls operation of the end node to perform various signaling and processing as discussed below. The modules included in memory are executed on startup or as called by other modules. Modules may exchange data information and signals when executed. Modules may also share data and information when executed.

The wireless interface module provides a mechanism by which the internal components of the end node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes e.g. access nodes. The wireless communication interface module includes e.g. a receiver module e.g. circuit with a corresponding receiving antenna and a transmitter module e.g. circuit with a corresponding transmitting antenna used for coupling the end node to other network nodes e.g. via wireless communications channels. In some embodiments of the present invention the wireless communication interface module includes an interface processor and interface memory as depicted in . The interface processor under control of various modules e.g. routines included in interface memory controls operation of the wireless communication interface module to perform various signaling and processing as discussed below. The modules included in interface memory are executed on startup or as called by other modules. Modules may exchange data information and signals when executed. Modules may also share data and information when executed.

The exemplary end node also includes a user input device e.g. keypad and a user output device e.g. display which are coupled to bus via the user input output interface . Thus user input output devices can exchange information signals and data with other components of the end node via user input output interface and bus . The user input output interface and associated devices provide a mechanism by which a user can operate the end node to accomplish certain tasks. In particular the user input device and user output device provide the functionality that allows a user to control the end node and applications e.g. modules programs routines and or functions that execute in the memory of the end node .

In the embodiment the end node memory includes one or more multicast group communication applications . Some end node embodiments implemented in accordance with the present invention also include a standard group membership client module and corresponding standard group membership client information . The standard group membership client module may support any one of a variety of group management protocols e.g. Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP Multicast Listener Discovery MLD etc. In end node embodiments that include a standard group membership client module multicast group communication applications may indicate group communication requirements e.g. multicast groups for which the application should receive traffic to the standard group membership client module via an application programming interface API and interface memory including one or more modules that implement various aspects of the present invention. In various embodiments the standard group membership client module may interact with the group communication module and or using IGMP or MLD compliant signaling with the group communication module or then acting as a proxy and generating non IGMP and non MLD compliant group membership change request signals which are transmitted by the transmitter included in the wireless communication interface module . Thus in some embodiments which include a standard group membership client module the group communication module which is coupled thereto serves as a proxy with the standard group membership client module allowing for applications to interact with the group membership client module using standard API s and conventional signaling.

In the embodiment the end node memory and interface memory further include a group communication module and group communication information that implement various aspects of the present invention. In accordance with the present invention the group communication module and group communication information may be implemented either in the end node memory as indicated by the blocks labeled or in the interface memory as indicated by the blocks labeled . The group communication module exchanges group membership information signaling with an access node e.g. to control joining and leaving of multicast groups. The multicast group communication applications may indicate group communication requirements e.g. multicast groups for which the application should receive traffic to the group communication module via an application programming interface API . In end node embodiments that include a standard group membership client module the group communication module may receive e.g. intercept group membership signaling directed towards an access node by said standard group membership client module and the group communication module may also proxy group membership signaling as would be directed from an access node to said standard group membership client module .

The embodiment is similar to the embodiment. However in the end node includes an end node housing with an opening through which the wireless interface module which is implemented in this embodiment as a plug in card can be inserted. As illustrated when fully inserted a portion of the card extends beyond the housing allowing for wireless signals to be transmitted and received without being shielded by said housing. The card is coupled to the bus in the embodiment by a plug in connector which allows for the card to make electrical contact with the bus but still allows the card to be inserted and removed by the user without having to take apart the housing .

The processor under control of various modules e.g. routines included in memory controls operation of the access node to perform various signaling and processing as discussed below. The modules included in memory are executed on startup or as called by other modules. Modules may exchange data information and signals when executed. Modules may also share data and information when executed.

The network internetwork interface provides a mechanism by which the internal components of the access node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes. The network internetwork interface includes a receiver circuit and a transmitter circuit used for coupling the node to other network nodes e.g. via copper wires or fiber optic lines. The wireless communication interface also provides a mechanism by which the internal components of the access node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes e.g. end nodes. The wireless communication interface includes e.g. a receiver circuit with a corresponding receiving antenna and a transmitter circuit with a corresponding transmitting antenna used for coupling the access node to other network nodes e.g. via wireless communication channels.

In the embodiment the memory of the access node includes a multicast routing forwarding module multicast routing forwarding information a group membership server module group membership information and a multicast group communication application .

The multicast routing forwarding module controls the operation of the access node to support routing forwarding of multicast traffic packets. The multicast routing forwarding module may use any one of a variety of multicast routing protocols e.g. Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol DVMRP Protocol Independent Multicast PIM etc. The multicast routing forwarding information includes e.g. the multicast routing and or forwarding tables indicating the interfaces between which multicast packets corresponding to specific groups should be copied and forwarded.

The group membership server module controls the operation of the access node to support managing group membership information on interfaces of the access node . The group membership information includes e.g. the set of groups for which there are active members connected to the access node via the wireless communication interface specific information pertaining to each such group and specific information pertaining to each group member connected to the access node via the wireless communication interface . The group membership server module exchanges group membership information signaling with end nodes e.g. to control joining and leaving of multicast groups. In accordance with the present invention the group membership server module in the access node exchanges group membership information signaling with the group communications module in the end node .

The standard group membership client module in the end node exchanges group membership information signaling with standard group membership server module in the access node e. g. to relay group membership information learned via the API from applications to the access node . The signaling between the standard group membership client module and the standard group membership server module may be in accordance with any one of a variety of group management protocols e.g. Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP Multicast Listener Discovery MLD etc. The signaling enables the access node to determine if there are members associated with particular multicast groups connected via a particular interface of the access node such that the access node can execute the procedures to establish and maintain multicast routing forwarding as needed. Note that standard group membership signaling approaches do not ensure that the access node can determine the number of members associated with a particular multicast group nor enable an access node to maintain an explicit list of group members associated with a particular group. Additionally standard group membership signaling approaches do not provide confirmation to the end node that group membership requirements have been received and or accepted by the access node.

The standard group membership client module in the end node sends and receives group membership information signaling e.g. intended to relay group membership information learned via the API from applications to the access node . In accordance with the present invention said signaling is exchanged between the standard group membership client module and the group communication module . Thus the group communication module receives e.g. intercepts group membership signaling directed towards an access node by the standard group membership client module and the group communication module serves as a proxy for group membership signaling as would be directed from an access node to said standard group membership client module .

The signaling exchanged between the standard group membership client module and the group communication module may be based on any one of a variety of group management protocols e. g. Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP Multicast Listener Discovery MLD etc. Said signaling enables the group communication module to determine group communication requirements e.g. multicast groups for which the applications should receive traffic learned by the standard group membership client module via the API from multicast group communication applications . In embodiments that do not include a standard group membership client module the multicast group communication applications indicate group communication requirements e.g. multicast groups for which the application should receive traffic directly to the group communication module via an API.

The group communication module in the end node exchanges signaling with the group membership server module in the access node . The signaling enables the end node e.g. to indicate group membership requirements and information to the access node . Thus the access node can determine if there are members associated with particular multicast groups connected via a particular interface of the access node such that the access node can execute the procedures to establish and maintain multicast routing forwarding as needed. In some but not necessarily all embodiments the access node determines the number of members associated with a particular multicast group and stores that number in memory. Additionally the signaling between the group communication module and the group membership server module enables the access node to maintain an explicit list of group members associated with a particular group and provides confirmation to the end node that group membership requirements have been received and or accepted by the access node .

The group membership server module sends a Response signal to the group communication module in response to receiving a Request Group Membership Information Change signal from said group communication module . The Response signal includes e.g. a confirmation that the corresponding Request Group Membership Information Change signal was received an indication that one or more aspects of the corresponding Request Group Membership Information Change signal were accepted and or an indication that the one or more aspects of the corresponding Request Group Membership Information Change signal were not accepted.

In some embodiments the group membership server module in the access node sends a Notification Group Membership Information Change signal when group membership information in the access node is changed without request by the end node . Such a change may occur e.g. when a particular multicast service to which the end node was joined is administratively terminated or can no longer be supported. The Notification Group Advertisement signal may be transmitted via the wireless communication interface in the access node using either unicast e.g. directed to a particular end node or multicast e.g. directed to a plurality of end nodes .

In some embodiments of the present invention communications between nodes is based all or in part on the Internet Protocol IP . Thus communication of both data and or control signaling between the network nodes may use IP packets e.g. datagrams.

Various features of the present invention are implemented using modules. Such modules may be implemented using software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Many of the above described methods or method steps can be implemented using machine executable instructions such as software included in a machine readable medium such as a memory device e.g. RAM floppy disk etc. to control a machine e.g. general purpose computer with or without additional hardware to implement all or portions of the above described methods. Accordingly among other things the present invention is directed to a machine readable medium including machine executable instructions for causing a machine e.g. processor and associated hardware to perform one or more of the steps of the above described method s .

Numerous additional variations on the methods and apparatus of the present invention described above will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the above description of the invention. Such variations are to be considered within the scope of the invention. The methods and apparatus of the present invention may be and in various embodiments are used with code division multiple access CDMA orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM or various other types of communications techniques which may be used to provide wireless communications links between access nodes and mobile nodes. In some embodiments the access nodes are implemented as base stations which establish communications links with mobile nodes using OFDM and or CDMA. In various embodiments the mobile nodes are implemented as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs or other portable devices including receiver transmitter circuits and logic and or routines for implementing the methods of the present invention.

