---

title: Faulted geological structures having unconformities
abstract: A method can include providing a mesh of a geologic environment that includes conformable sequences and an unconformity; interpolating an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function; and identifying an iso-surface based on a portion of the values where the iso-surface represents the unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378312&OS=09378312&RS=09378312
owner: SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
number: 09378312
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130309
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of Patent Application FR France 1252161 filed 9 Mar. 2012 entitled Faulted Geological Structures Containing Unconformities to inventors Francois Lepage and Laurent Souche the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Phenomena associated with a sedimentary basin may be modeled using a mesh a grid etc. As an example a structural model may be created based on data associated with a sedimentary basin. For example where a basin includes various types of features e.g. stratigraphic layers faults etc. data associated with such features may be used to create a structural model of the basin. Such a model may be a basis for analysis further modeling etc. Various technologies techniques etc. described herein pertain to structural modeling structural models etc.

A method can include providing a mesh of a geologic environment that includes conformable sequences and an unconformity interpolating an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identifying an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents the unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. A system can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory that include instructions executable by the processor to instruct the system to provide a mesh of a geologic environment that comprises conformable sequences and at least one unconformity interpolate an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identify an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents one of the at least one unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. One or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing device to provide a mesh of a geologic environment that include conformable sequences and at least one unconformity interpolate an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identify an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents one of the at least one unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Phenomena associated with a sedimentary basin e.g. a subsurface region whether below a ground surface water surface etc. may be modeled using a model or models. As an example a structural model of a basin may find use for understanding various processes related to exploration and production of natural resources estimating reserves in place drilling wells forecasting production etc. . As an example a structural model may be used as a basis for building a model for use with a numerical technique.

For application of a numerical technique equations may be discretized using a grid that includes nodes cells etc. To represent features in a geologic environment a structural model may assist with properly locating nodes cells etc. of a grid for use in simulation using one or more numerical techniques. As an example a structural model may itself include a mesh which may at times be referred to as a grid. As an example a structural model may provide for analysis optionally without resorting to creation of a grid suited for discretization of equations for a numerical solver e.g. consider a structured grid that may reduce computational demands etc. .

As to numerical techniques a numerical technique such as the finite difference method can include discretizing a 1D differential heat equation for temperature with respect to a spatial coordinate to approximate temperature derivatives e.g. first order second order etc. . Where time is of interest a derivative of temperature with respect to time may also be provided. As to the spatial coordinate the numerical technique may rely on a spatial grid that includes various nodes where a temperature will be provided for each node upon solving the heat equation e.g. subject to boundary conditions generation terms etc. . Such an example may apply to multiple dimensions in space e.g. where discretization is applied to the multiple dimensions . Thus a grid may discretize a volume of interest VOI into elementary elements e.g. cells or grid blocks that may be assigned or associated with properties e.g. porosity rock type etc. which may be germane to simulation of physical processes e.g. fluid flow reservoir compaction etc. .

As another example of a numerical technique consider the finite element method where space may be represented by one dimensional or multidimensional elements . For one spatial dimension an element may be represented by two nodes positioned along a spatial coordinate. For multiple spatial dimensions an element may include any number of nodes. Further some equations may be represented by certain nodes while others are represented by fewer nodes e.g. consider an example for the Navier Stokes equations where fewer nodes represent pressure . The finite element method may include providing nodes that can define triangular elements e.g. tetrahedra in 3D higher order simplexes in multidimensional spaces etc. or quadrilateral elements e.g. hexahedra or pyramids in 3D etc. or polygonal elements e.g. prisms in 3D etc. . Such elements as defined by corresponding nodes of a grid may be referred to as grid cells.

Yet another example of a numerical technique is the finite volume method. For the finite volume method values for model equation variables may be calculated at discrete places on a grid for example a node of the grid that includes a finite volume surrounding it. The finite volume method may apply the divergence theorem for evaluation of fluxes at surfaces of each finite volume such that flux entering a given finite volume equals that leaving to one or more adjacent finite volumes e.g. to adhere to conservation laws . For the finite volume method nodes of a grid may define grid cells.

As mentioned where a sedimentary basin e.g. subsurface region includes various types of features e.g. stratigraphic layers faults etc. where nodes cells etc. of a mesh or grid may represent or be assigned to such features. As an example consider a structural model that may include one or more meshes. Such a model may serve as a basis for formation of a grid for discretized equations to represent a sedimentary basin and its features.

As to a stratigraphic sequence a sedimentary basin may include sedimentary deposits grouped into stratigraphic units for example based on any of a variety of factors to approximate or represent time lines that place stratigraphy in a chronostratigraphic framework. While sequence stratigraphy is mentioned lithostratigraphy may be applied for example based on similarity of lithology of rock units e.g. rather than time related factors .

As an example a mesh may conform to structural features such as for example Y faults X faults low angle unconformities salt bodies intrusions etc. e.g. geological discontinuities to more fully capture complexity of a geological model. As an example a mesh may optionally conform to stratigraphy e.g. in addition to one or more geological discontinuities . As to geological discontinuities these may include model discontinuities such as one or more model boundaries. As an example a mesh may be populated with property fields generated for example by geostatistical methods.

In general a relationship may exist between node spacing and phenomenon or phenomena being modeled. Various scales may exist within a geologic environment for example a molecular scale may be on the order of approximately 10to approximately 10meters a pore scale may be on the order of approximately 10to approximately 10meters bulk continuum may be on the order of approximately 10to approximately 10meters and a basin scale on the order of approximately 10to approximately 10meters. As an example nodes of a mesh may be selected based at least in part on the type of phenomenon or phenomena being modeled e.g. to select nodes of appropriate spacing or spacings . As an example nodes of a grid may include node to node spacing of about 10 meters to about 500 meters. In such an example a basin being modeled may span for example over approximately 10meters. As an example node to node space may vary for example being smaller or larger than the aforementioned spacings.

Some data may be involved in building an initial mesh and thereafter a model a corresponding mesh etc. may optionally be updated in response to model output changes in time physical phenomena additional data etc. Data may include one or more of the following depth or thickness maps and fault geometries and timing from seismic remote sensing electromagnetic gravity outcrop and well log data. Furthermore data may include depth and thickness maps stemming from facies variations.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

As an example the simulation component may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. the INTERSECT reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. etc. As an example a reservoir or reservoirs may be simulated with respect to one or more enhanced recovery techniques e.g. consider a thermal process such as SAGD etc. . As an example a simulator may accept as input a grid such as for example a structured grid for purposes of simulating one or more physical phenomena. As an example such a structured grid may be generated by transforming a grid in a computational space to a grid in a real space for example where one or more faults have been introduced into the grid in the computational space such that the one or more faults exist in the structured grid in the real space e.g. structured according to an indexing system .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As an example a method may include structural modeling for example building a structural model editing a structural model etc. of a geologic environment. As an example a workflow may include providing a structural model prior to construction of a grid e.g. using the structural model which may in turn be suitable for use with one or more numerical techniques. As an example one or more applications may operate on a structural model e.g. input of a structural model .

As shown in the example of the system may allow for implementing one or more workflows for example where data of the data block are used to create edit etc. one or more surface models of the surface models block which may be used to create edit etc. one or more volume models of the volume models block . As indicated in the example of the surface models block may provide one or more structural models which may be input to the applications block . For example such a structural model may be provided to one or more applications optionally without performing one or more processes of the volume models block e.g. for purposes of numerical processing by the numerical processing block . Accordingly the system may be suitable for one or more workflows for structural modeling e.g. optionally without performing numerical processing per the numerical processing block .

As to the applications block it may include applications such as a well prognosis application a reserve calculation application and a well stability assessment application . As to the numerical processing block it may include a process for seismic velocity modeling followed by seismic processing a process for facies and petrotechnical property interpolation followed by flow simulation and a process for geomechanical simulation followed by geochemical simulation . As indicated as an example a workflow may proceed from the volume models block to the numerical processing block and then to the applications block and or to the operational decision block . As another example a workflow may proceed from the surface models block to the applications block and then to the operational decisions block e.g. consider an application that operates using a structural model .

In the example of the operational decisions block may include a seismic survey design process a well rate adjustment process a well trajectory planning process a well completion planning process and a process for one or more prospects for example to decide whether to explore develop abandon etc. a prospect.

Referring again to the data block the well tops or drill hole data may include spatial localization and optionally surface dip of an interface between two geological formations or of a subsurface discontinuity such as a geological fault the seismic interpretation data may include a set of points lines or surface patches interpreted from seismic reflection data and representing interfaces between media e.g. geological formations in which seismic wave velocity differs or subsurface discontinuities the outcrop interpretation data may include a set of lines or points optionally associated with measured dip representing boundaries between geological formations or geological faults as interpreted on the earth surface and the geological knowledge data may include for example knowledge of the paleo tectonic and sedimentary evolution of a region.

As to a structural model it may be for example a set of gridded or meshed surfaces representing one or more interfaces between geological formations e.g. horizon surfaces or mechanical discontinuities fault surfaces in the subsurface. As an example a structural model may include some information about one or more topological relationships between surfaces e.g. fault A truncates fault B fault B intersects fault C etc. .

As to the one or more boundary representations they may include a numerical representation in which a subsurface model is partitioned into various closed units representing geological layers and fault blocks wherein an individual unit may be defined by its boundary and optionally by a set of internal boundaries such as fault surfaces.

As to the one or more structured grids it may include a grid that partitions a volume of interest into different elementary volumes cells for example that may be indexed according to a pre defined repeating pattern. As to the one or more unstructured meshes it may include a mesh that partitions a volume of interest into different elementary volumes for example that may not be readily indexed following a pre defined repeating pattern e.g. consider a Cartesian cube with indexes I J and K along x y and z axes .

As to the seismic velocity modeling it may include calculation of velocity of propagation of seismic waves e.g. where seismic velocity depends on type of seismic wave and on direction of propagation of the wave . As to the seismic processing it may include a set of processes allowing identification of localization of seismic reflectors in space physical characteristics of the rocks in between these reflectors etc.

As to the facies and petrophysical property interpolation it may include an assessment of type of rocks and of their petrophysical properties e.g. porosity permeability for example optionally in areas not sampled by well logs or coring. As an example such an interpolation may be constrained by interpretations from log and core data and by prior geological knowledge.

As to the flow simulation as an example it may include simulation of flow of hydro carbons in the subsurface for example through geological times e.g. in the context of petroleum systems modeling when trying to predict the presence and quality of oil in an un drilled formation or during the exploitation of a hydrocarbon reservoir e.g. when some fluids are pumped from or into the reservoir .

As to geomechanical simulation it may include simulation of the deformation of rocks under boundary conditions. Such a simulation may be used for example to assess compaction of a reservoir e.g. associated with its depletion when hydrocarbons are pumped from the porous and deformable rock that composes the reservoir . As an example a geomechanical simulation may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example prediction of fracturing reconstruction of the paleo geometries of the reservoir as they were prior to tectonic deformations etc.

As to geochemical simulation such a simulation may simulate evolution of hydrocarbon formation and composition through geological history e.g. to assess the likelihood of oil accumulation in a particular subterranean formation while exploring new prospects .

As to the various applications of the applications block the well prognosis application may include predicting type and characteristics of geological formations that may be encountered by a drill bit and location where such rocks may be encountered e.g. before a well is drilled the reserve calculations application may include assessing total amount of hydrocarbons or ore material present in a subsurface environment e.g. and estimates of which proportion can be recovered given a set of economic and technical constraints and the well stability assessment application may include estimating risk that a well already drilled or to be drilled will collapse or be damaged due underground stress.

As to the operational decision block the seismic survey design process may include deciding where to place seismic sources and receivers to optimize the coverage and quality of the collected seismic information while minimizing cost of acquisition the well rate adjustment process may include controlling injection and production well schedules and rates e.g. to maximize recovery and production the well trajectory planning process may include designing a well trajectory to maximize potential recovery and production while minimizing drilling risks and costs the well trajectory planning process may include selecting proper well tubing casing and completion e.g. to meet expected production or injection targets in specified reservoir formations and the prospect process may include decision making in an exploration context to continue exploring start producing or abandon prospects e.g. based on an integrated assessment of technical and financial risks against expected benefits .

As an example a conformable horizon may be a horizon between a lower horizon and an upper horizon where the horizons have undergone a relatively common geologic history for example being deposited in succession e.g. continuous in time . Referring to the formation the horizons do not intersect one another and each of the horizons may be considered conformable to adjacent horizons e.g. lower and upper or older and younger .

As an example erosion may act to denude rock for example as a result of physical chemical and or biological breakdown and or transportation. Erosion may occur for example as material e.g. weathered from rock etc. is transported by fluids solids e.g. wind water or ice or mass wasting e.g. as in rock falls and landslides . Referring to the formation of the two sequences shown the lower sequence may have been eroded and the upper sequence deposited on top of the eroded lower sequence. In such an example the boundary between the two sequences may be referred to as an erosion noting that it is conformable to the upper younger sequence. As an example erosion may act to truncate a sequence of horizons and to form surface upon which subsequent material may be deposited e.g. optionally in a conformable manner .

As an example a baselap may be a type of feature in a formation for example such as a downlap or an onlap. As an example a downlap may be a termination of more steeply dipping overlying strata against a surface or underlying strata that have lower apparent dips. For example a downlap may be seen at the base of prograding clinoforms and may represent progradation of a basin margin. As to an onlap for example it may be a termination of shallowly dipping younger strata against more steeply dipping older strata e.g. sequence stratigraphy that may occur during periods of transgression . Referring to the formation given the indicated direction z as depth the type of baselap shown may be considered as a downlap e.g. lower strata having lower apparent dips . In such an example the baselap boundary is conformable to immediately older horizons lower sequence .

As to the formation it includes three sequences and may be referred to as a discontinuity as the boundary is neither conformable to older horizons nor to younger ones. In the examples of erosions baselaps and discontinuities may be referred to as unconformities or non conformable horizons e.g. or surfaces layers etc. .

As shown in the method includes input processes and output . As to the input the method may receive for example fault geometry input per an input block stratigraphic column input per an input block fault activity input per an input block and horizon geometry input per an input block . As indicated the processes can include a build block for building a background mesh a definition block for defining conformable sequences an edit block for performing one or more edit procedures per blocks and an implicit function interpolation block for interpolating an implicit function e.g. or implicit functions and a return block which may return to the edit block for example after performing one or more interpolations per the implicit function interpolation block . As an example the method can include outputting a mesh as output per a mesh output block for example where the output mesh may be suitable for one or more purposes.

As an example the method may include receiving a background mesh e.g. built per the mesh block receiving one or more conformable sequences e.g. defined per the definition block and editing the received background mesh using the received one or more conformable sequences e.g. per the edit block to provide an edited mesh. In such an example the method may include populating the edited mesh with values of an implicit function via an interpolation procedure e.g. per the implicit function interpolation block based at least in part on receiving as input horizon geometry e.g. per the input block . In such an example the method may include outputting a mesh that is or may be split into multiple volumes along one or more unconformities see e.g. the formations and of . For example the method may include outputting a mesh e.g. per the mesh output block . In turn a model of a geologic environment may be constructed at least in part using such a mesh.

As an example a method may be implemented that can create a model e.g. a multidimensional spatial model of a faulted stratigraphic sequence e.g. faulted geological layers . Such a method may include creating a model that represents one or more unconformities for example where an unconformity may be a domain boundary that separates younger rock from older rock e.g. consider a gap in a geological time record . As an example a method may create a model for use in modeling structures phenomena etc. in one or more dimensions. As an example a model may be suited for modeling structures phenomena etc. with respect to time e.g. a time dimension whether forward backward or both . As an example a method that includes performing one or more numerical techniques may use a model for example to discretize a geologic environment e.g. in one or more dimensions and to formulate sets of equations that correspond to at least a portion of the discretized geologic environment. For example a model may include nodes a grid defined by nodes cells e.g. consider two dimensional cells and three dimensional cells etc.

As an example a method such as the method may account for real geometrical input for example without necessarily having to model or interpret eroded or non deposited parts of layers or eroded parts of faults. As an example a method may include constructing a geological model in the form of a mesh or of a set of meshes such that the model is watertight for example where one or more faults conformable layers and unconformities may be represented by meshes e.g. optionally resulting from splitting of a mesh that have contacts i.e. no geometrical gaps or overlaps with each other. As an example a method may include accounting for fault activity for example where faults may be eroded by some conformable sequences while introducing a discontinuity in younger sequences in a geologically consistent manner. As an example a method may be tolerant to geometrical inaccuracies in the interpretation of such eroded faults and may produce geologically meaningful results even if the fault interpretation is going past the erosion surface that should be truncating it.

As an example a method may include modeling simultaneously e.g. representing by a single implicit function on a volume mesh horizons that belong to a particular conformal sequence e.g. including one or more sequence boundaries where one or more may be an unconformity . For example referring to the example formations and of a method may include modeling successively each of the conformable sequences subject to a sequence boundary e.g. or boundaries that may be an unconformity e.g. an erosion a baselap a discontinuity etc. for example by representing conformal sequences by one or several implicit functions defined on separate e.g. topologically disconnected elements of a background mesh. Such an approach may provide for reliable and accurate modeling of conformable or non conformable horizons for example which may at times be defined by sparse data e.g. consider well tops data .

Referring again to the method of examples of Options A and B are shown with respect to the fault geometry input block . For Option A the input block may provide input to the build block for use in building a background mesh whereas for Option B the fault geometry input block may provide input to the edit block . For Option A as an example a background mesh may be built by the build block such that the background mesh is constrained at least in part by geometry of a fault or faults. For Option B as an example a background mesh may be unconstrained by geometry of a fault or faults while editing per the edit block takes into account geometry of a fault or faults.

The method of may be referred to as an implicit modeling technique as it includes using one or more implicit functions. As an example such a method can include representing geological horizons in three dimensions using specific iso surfaces of a scalar property field e.g. an implicit function defined on a three dimensional background mesh. In such an example continuity of the scalar field property may be governed by continuity of the background mesh see e.g. the example mesh of which is described further below .

As an example a method can include building a background mesh suitable for interpolating an implicit function see e.g. the example mesh of which is described further below identifying a set of conformable sequences from the geological type of stratigraphic horizons and editing the background mesh on which the interpolation is performed for processing of a first conformable sequence or between processing of two successive conformable sequences. As to such editing it may include creating sub volumes in the background mesh by subdividing it by previously interpolated sequence boundaries see e.g. the subdivision block of and the example mesh of which is split into two meshes and described further below identifying sub volumes corresponding to a current conformable sequence see e.g. the identification block of and restricting further interpolation and iso surface extraction processes to the identified sub volumes and for example managing fault activity in one or more of the identified sub volumes see e.g. the de activate in activate block of for example by introducing and or removing one or more internal discontinuities in the background mesh see e.g. the example mesh of which is described further below .

As to processing one or more implicit functions a method can include interpolating one or more implicit functions on a conformable sequence per conformable sequence basis for example optionally one conformable sequence at a time see e.g. the example meshes of .

In the example of the method includes a return block whereby results from the implicit function interpolation block may be provided to the edit block to perform one or more additional edits to the edited background mesh. As an example a loop may exist between the edit block and the implicit function interpolation block for example where various actions may be repeated to process a stratigraphic pile e.g. for modeling the stratigraphic pile . As an example an isovalue of a previously interpolated implicit function that corresponds to an unconformity e.g. a sequence boundary may be used as input to sub divide block As mentioned the method can include output for example which may output a mesh e.g. or meshes per the mesh output block . As an example a mesh e.g. or meshes may be considered a model of a geologic environment.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example the blocks and may be provided as one or more modules for example such as the one or more modules of the system of .

As an example a function F may be defined for coordinates x y z and equated with an implicit function denoted . As to constraint values the function F may be such that each input horizon surface I corresponds to a known constant value hof . For example shows nodes e.g. vertices of the cell as including a a aand aas well as corresponding values of see column vector . As to the values value hof if a horizon I is younger than horizon J then h hand if one denotes T ij as an average thickness between horizons I and J then h h h h T ik Tij for which a method can include estimating values of T ij before an interpolation is performed. Note that the method may accept lower values hof for younger horizons the only constraint being that within each conformal sequence the values hof vary monotonously with respect to the age of the horizons.

As to interpolation of F as an example may be interpolated on nodes of a background mesh e.g. a triangulated surface in 2D a tetrahedral mesh in 3D a regular structured grid quad octrees etc. according to several constraints that may be honored in a least squares sense. In such an example as the background mesh may be discontinuous along faults interpolation may be discontinuous as well noting that regularization constraints may be included for example for constraining smoothness of interpolated values.

As an example a method may include using fuzzy control point constraints. For example at a location of interpretation points hof see e.g. point a in . As an example an interpretation point may be located at a location other than that of a node of a mesh onto which an interpolation is performed for example as a numerical constraint may be expressed as a linear combination of values of at nodes of a mesh element e.g. a tetrahedron tetrahedral cell etc. that includes the interpretation point e.g. coefficients of a sum being barycentric coordinates of the interpretation point within the element or cell .

For example for an interpretation point p of a horizon I located inside a tetrahedron which includes vertices are a a aand aand which barycentric coordinates are b b band b e.g. such that the sum of the barycentric coordinates is approximately equal to 1 in the tetrahedron an equation may be formulated as follows where unknowns in the equation are a a a and a . For example refer to the control point a labeled in the cell of the control point constraints formulation of with corresponding coordinates x y z noting a matrix M for coordinates of the nodes or vertices for a a aand a e.g. x y zto x y z .

As an example the number of such constraints of the foregoing type may be based on the number of interpretation points where for example interpretation points may be decimated interpretation for improving performance.

As mentioned a process can include various regularization constraints for example for constraining smoothness of interpolated values of various orders e.g. constraining smoothness of or of its gradient which may be combined through a weighted least squares scheme.

As an example a method can include constraining the gradient in a mesh element e.g. a tetrahedron a tetrahedral cell etc. to take a weighted arithmetic average of values of the gradients of in with respect to its topological neighbors. As an example one or more weighting schemes may be applied e.g. by volume of an element and for defining of a topological neighborhood e.g. by face adjacency . As an example two geometrically touching mesh elements that are located on different sides of a fault may be deemed not topological neighbors for example as a mesh may be unsewn along fault surfaces e.g. to define a set of elements or a mesh on one side of the fault and another set of elements or a mesh on the other side of the fault .

As an example within a mesh if one considers a mesh element mthat has n neighbors m e.g. for a tetrahedron one may formulate an equation of the regularization constraint as follows 

In such an example of a regularization constraint solutions for which isovalues of the implicit function would form a flat layer cake or nesting balls geometries may be considered perfectly smooth i.e. not violating the regularization constraint it may be that a first one is targeted.

As an example one or more constraints may be incorporated into a system in linear form. For example hard constraints may be provided on nodes of a mesh e.g. a control node . In such an example data may be from force values at the location of well tops. As an example a control gradient or control gradient orientation approach may be implemented to impose dip constraints.

Referring again to the linear system formulation includes various types of constraints. For example a formulation may include harmonic equation constraints control point equation constraints see e.g. the control point constraints formulation gradient equation constraints constant gradient equation constraints etc. As shown in a matrix A may include a column for each node and a row for each constraint. Such a matrix may be multiplied by a column vector such as the column vector a e.g. or for example where the index i corresponds to a number of nodes vertices etc. for a mesh e.g. a double index may be used for example a where j represents an element or cell index . As shown in the example of the product of A and the vector may be equated to a column vector F e.g. including non zero entries where appropriate for example consider and .

As to the layer block it can include a thickness values block for determining or receiving thickness values e.g. based on or from the thickness estimation block and a computation block for computing control point values see e.g. the formulations and of . As shown the layer block can output control points to a control points block which may be defined with respect to a mesh provided by the background mesh block . As an example the control points of the control points block may account for one or more regularization constraints per a regularization constraint block .

As an example given control point values for layers definable with respect to a mesh and subject to one or more constraints a method can include calculating values of an implicit function e.g. or implicit functions . As shown in the example of an implicit function calculation block can receive control points and one or more constraints defined with respect to a mesh e.g. elements cells nodes vertices etc. and in turn calculate values for one or more implicit functions.

As to the output block given calculated values for one or more implicit functions these may be associated with for example a stratigraphic property per the block . As an example one or more iso surfaces may be extracted based at least in part on the values of the stratigraphic property per an iso surface extraction block for example where one or more of the extracted iso surfaces may be defined to be a horizon surface e.g. or horizon surfaces per a horizon surface block .

As an example the input block may include one or more features of the input block of the method the mesh block may include one or more features of the mesh block of the method the volume attribute interpolation block may include one or more features of the implicit function calculation block and or the stratigraphic property block of the method the iso surface extraction block may include one or more features of the iso surface extraction block of the method the subdivision block may include subdividing a meshed volume using one or more horizon surfaces per the horizon surfaces block of the method and the output block may include outputting a volume based model based at least in part on one or more outputs of the output block of the method .

As explained with respect to the method of an implicit function may be provided for performing for example interpolation. As an example an implicit modeling approach can include representing surfaces as iso values of a volume attribute e.g. of an implicit function . As an example such a volume attribute may be referred to as being a thickness proportion e.g. volumetrically filling in space . For example an implicit function may correspond to the stratigraphic age of formations and for example such an implicit function may be embedded and interpolated in a volumetrically filling tetrahedral mesh e.g. structured unstructured etc. .

As an example a method can include building a tetrahedral mesh for carrying and interpolating an implicit function. As an example a 3D boundary constrained Delaunay mesh generator may be implemented for example with constraints such as constraints based on faults affecting considered horizons where such faults may be accounted for as internal boundaries during mesh generation for example where some border faces of tetrahedra may match fault geometries in a resulting mesh. As an implicit function may be defined and interpolated on nodes of a tetrahedral mesh density of the mesh and therefore the spatial resolution of the implicit function may be controlled for example to include a higher density within a shell at proximate to or around various data and or faults e.g. to maximize degree of freedom of an interpolation at or near various data and or faults . As an example a mesh adaptation process may include producing tetrahedra that have a vertical resolution higher than their areal resolution e.g. to better capture thickness variations in layering . As an example a resulting mesh e.g. a built mesh may be unstructured.

As an example a method can include interpolating values of an implicit function on nodes of a tetrahedral mesh. As an example an interpolation process may include using a linear least squares formulation which may tend to minimize misfit between interpretation data and interpolated surfaces and to minimize variations of dip and thickness of layers.

As an example a method can include generating surfaces representing individual implicitly modeled horizons. In such an example as the specific value of the implicit function associated to each of the individual horizons may be known a method may include using an iso surfacing algorithm. As an example resolution of a resulting surface or surfaces may be higher or approximately equal to a local resolution of a tetrahedral mesh around sample points e.g. which may be user controllable .

As an example a method may include a volume based modeling approach that generates a consistent zone model e.g. a model of interpreted geological layers . For example such a zone model may include an individual geological layer that may be seen as an interval of values of an implicit function. In such an example given its value of the implicit function a method may determine to which layer an arbitrary point belongs in particular where such arbitrary points correspond to nodes of a mesh supporting the implicit function.

As an example edges of a tetrahedral mesh may intersect limits of geological layers. In such an example construction of such intersection points may have been computed where they correspond to nodes of triangulated surfaces representing horizons. Accordingly zones may be built by cutting edges of the tetrahedral mesh by some iso surfaces of the implicit function.

As an example a method can include cutting a volume to produce zones that are sets of tetrahedra. As an example a method can include cutting volume borders to produce zones that are sets of triangulated patches. As to the latter it may include cutting volume borders by iso contours. As noted one or more implicit functions may be formulated for determination of iso surfaces and or iso contours that do not intersect one another other.

As an example a volume based modeling approach may be less sensitive to complexity of a fault network and may provide conformable horizons belonging to a common conformable sequence e.g. which may be modeled simultaneously . As to the latter by using an implicit approach e.g. by representing sets of conformable horizons by several iso values of a common implicit attribute the approach may avoid crossing of conformable horizons.

As an example a volume based modeling approach may provide for conformable horizons that constrain geometry of other conformable horizons that belong to a common sequence which itself may be constrained by geometry. As an example a volume based modeling approach may be applied in scenarios where data are sparse for example consider data from well tops 2D sections etc. As an example one or more surfaces may be modeled using seismic data and for example globally adjusted using well top data.

As an example a volume based modeling approach may include outputting geometry of a horizon as well as volume attribute values which may be defined within a volume of interest and for example represent a stratigraphic age or relative chronostratigraphic age of a formation or formations .

As an example such a method may produce correct geometries for the eroded horizons e.g. similar to those of horizons labeled provided that the implicit function is interpolated on a background mesh which upper boundary corresponds to unconformity U of .

As an example a method may provide a model of a geologic environment that represents features for example more accurately than the approaches described with respect to the diagrams and of respectively. As an example the method of may include outputting one or more models e.g. a mesh or meshes etc. that account for various features of a geologic environment for example where the output model or models is volume filling e.g. watertight or sealed .

As an example a method may be implemented to create a reservoir model on a conformable sequence per conformable sequence basis for example where surfaces belonging to a common conformable sequence may be interpolated simultaneously. As an example a method can include iteratively editing topology of a volume mesh for example to control extent of the volume in which an interpolation is performed and continuity of an interpolated implicit function. As an example a method may include producing layering that is consistent with a geological style of deposition in one or more eroded areas.

As an example a method can include building a background mesh for example where the background volume mesh covers a volume of interest VOI which itself may be of a size sufficient to include horizons to be modeled.

Referring again to the tetrahedral background mesh may be used for modeling implicitly an unconformity described by seismic data points such as the unconformity of the mesh of . The mesh also shows an implicit function represented by a periodic scale e.g. whether black and white color etc. that may be interpolated within the background mesh. As mentioned shows the volume without the mesh lines to more clearly illustrate an example of a periodic scale for an implicit function. As an example the unconformity of may be represented by a specific iso surface of the implicit function.

As an example a method may include building a mesh that includes subsets of its facets that match e.g. in a general sense elements of the mesh representing one or more faults. In such an example the facets may be approximating in the background mesh geometry of a fault network. As an example a mesh may include elements with shape and size that are specified to be suitable for an interpolation process e.g. shape size etc. may be specified depending on one or more characteristics of an interpolation process .

As an example a mesh may be considered an initial mesh e.g. or other early stage mesh that may not include one or more internal borders for example that represent one or more discontinuities.

As an example a method can include identifying one or more conformable sequences. In such an example an identification process may include identifying a set of conformable sequences from a geological type of stratigraphic horizons for example provided by an operator of the system. As an example consider one or more of the definitions provided with respect to where a an erosion may be an unconformity that is conformable to one or more horizons immediately younger e.g. without gaps in the geological record and not conformable to one or more older horizons see e.g. the geologic environment of b a baselap may be an unconformity that is conformable to one or more horizons immediately older e.g. without gaps in the geological record and not conformable to one or more younger horizons and c a discontinuity may be an unconformity that is neither conformable to one or more older horizons nor to one or more younger ones. As an example a conformable horizon may be assumed to be conformable to at least an adjacent younger horizon and at least an adjacent older horizon.

Provided with definitions for a given stratigraphic sequence that includes conformable horizons and unconformities it may be possible to divide the sequence into subsets of conformable sequences for example where an individual horizon e.g. conformable or unconformity belongs to a single conformable sequence. For example consider the following rules a an erosion is the oldest horizon to be modeled in the conformable sequence it belongs to b a baselap is the youngest horizon to be modeled in the conformable sequence it belongs to and c a discontinuity is modeled alone in its own conformable sequence which may be in such a case a conformable sequence that is degenerated to a single surface.

Through use of such rules a produced conformable sequence may include a set of horizons that are conformable to one another for example meaning that they do not have any contact with one another and do not intersect one another. In such an example an individual conformable sequence may be modeled with a single implicit function. As an example a one to one correspondence may exist between conformable sequences and implicit functions.

As an example a method can include editing a mesh e.g. a background mesh . For example an editing process may prepare a mesh for interpolation of an implicit function for modeling a given conformable sequence in the mesh.

As mentioned with respect to the method of editing may include one or more processes. As an example consider a sub volume process that can create sub volumes within a meshed volume of interest VOI . As an example sub volumes may be first created from sub volumes of a background mesh used to model a prior conformable sequence noting that where a conformable sequence is a first conformable sequence such a process may by definition not have a prior conformable sequence and may be created directly. As an example a sub volume process may include cutting sub volumes according to one or more unconformities that may bound a conformable sequence previously modeled. For example referring to the mesh may be a conformable sequence previously modeled after which the mesh is used to model another conformable sequence.

A sub volume process may be performed for example in a manner that avoids numerical instabilities where unconformities are iso surfaces of a scalar property field defined within considered sub volumes. In such an example geometrical intersections between mesh elements of the unconformity e.g. which may be triangles or other shaped faces and the mesh elements of the sub volumes e.g. which may be tetrahedra or other volumes may be one of two kinds i a node of a triangle lying on an edge of a tetrahedron or ii a node of a triangle being collocated with a node of a tetrahedron. Such an approach may for example facilitate computation of one or more geometrical intersections.

As an example an identification process may include identifying one or more sub volumes as corresponding to a conformable sequence. For example where a previously modeled unconformity is modeled through a volume of interest and includes a maximum areal extension it may intersect the volume of interest in a manner that divides the volume of interest into sub volumes such as for example two subsets of new sub volumes see e.g. . As an example one subset of new sub volumes may be for a sequence older than an unconformity while another subset of new sub volumes may be for a sequence younger than the unconformity.

As an example a method may include computing relative ages by taking an average value of an implicit function having been used to model an unconformity in a sub volume and comparing it with a value of an iso surface that represents the unconformity. For example an iso surface may be defined along a scale that corresponds to age. As an example depending on order with which conformable sequences are modeled e.g. from younger to older or from older to younger one of two subsets of new sub volumes may be selected and considered for processing a next conformable sequence. As an example a periodic scale may be implemented to facilitate visualization of an implicit function e.g. with respect to one or more features in a sequence .

As an example a method may include managing fault activity. For example a list of faults may be provided that have been set as active for a current conformable sequence e.g. meaning that they are expected to introduce a geometrical discontinuity in one or more modeled layers as in the example of and compared to a list of faults that were set as active for a previously considered conformable sequence. In such an example to enforce geological consistency faults that were active for a younger sequence may be set as active for an older sequence. Given such a comparison discontinuities may be created or removed in a considered sub volume or sub volumes of a background mesh. For example if a subset of facets exists in the sub volumes matching the geometry e.g. mesh elements of a given fault a corresponding discontinuity may be formed by duplicating these facets and thus creating an internal border. As an example one or more discontinuities may be removed by performing for example some local mesh editions on elements of a background mesh 

As to interpolation of an implicit function corresponding to a conformable sequence as an example its distribution may be discontinuous across one or more internal borders of a background mesh and continuous elsewhere see e.g. . As an example interpolation may be performed in one or more sub volumes of a background mesh that have been created and identified as corresponding to a current conformable sequence. As an example data points that included in such one or more sub volumes may be taken into account to constrain an interpolation of an implicit function. As an example once an interpolation process has been performed to provide values for an implicit function implicit horizons of the current conformable sequence may be transformed into explicit surfaces using one or more iso surfacing algorithms.

As an example the provision block may include providing the mesh building the mesh editing a mesh etc. based at least in part on receiving input from an input block and input from a conformity unconformity block . As an example the conformity unconformity block may provide for defining one or more unconformities in a mesh for example with respect to one or more conformal sequences. As an example the conformity unconformity block may provide data associated with an unconformity for example where the data is represented as values points etc. in a mesh.

As an example the interpolation block may include receiving one or more implicit functions per an implicit function block and include receiving one or more constraints per a constraints block . As an example an implicit function or implicit functions may be constrained by one or more constraints. As an example where a mesh includes nodes one or more constraints may be defined with respect to a portion of those nodes. In such an example a linear system of equations may be formulated and solved for example as part of an interpolation process to provide values for an implicit function e.g. or implicit functions .

As an example the identification block may include receiving one or more algorithms for example for forming iso surfaces given values within a region or regions such as a region or regions of a mesh. For example an algorithm may receive as input values associated with an implicit function and then define iso surfaces for at least some of those values. As an example an iso surface may correspond to a horizon an unconformity etc. As an example a series of iso surfaces may correspond to a conformable sequence for example where the conformable sequence is at least partially bound by an unconformity which may be represented itself as an iso surface.

In the example of the method may include a block for performing one or more additional actions. For example a model block may provide for outputting a model based at least in part on the identified iso surface where such a model may be used for modeling one or more physical phenomena associated with a geologic environment e.g. including one or more processes applied to the environment such as injection production etc. . As an example the block may include a splitting block for splitting or sub dividing a mesh based at least in part on an identified iso surface. For example where the iso surface corresponds to an unconformity a mesh may be split into meshes based at least in part on that iso surface e.g. to form a first mesh and a second mesh where the unconformity may belong to one of the first mesh or the second mesh . As an example the block may include a fault block for introducing one or more faults for activation of one or more faults for deactivation of one or more faults etc.

As an example the method may include a provision block for providing an updated mesh. For example where splitting occurs per the splitting block a mesh may be updated and provided to the interpolation block for further processing. As an example the conformity unconformity block may provide input for updating a mesh. For example where a mesh has been split into a first mesh and a second mesh according to a first unconformity one of the first mesh and the second mesh may be further processed for example using data etc. associated with another unconformity. In the example of the method may perform iteratively for example by looping to edit a mesh e.g. whether an initial provided mesh a subsequent mesh resulting from splitting etc. and to perform interpolation of one or more implicit functions with respect to an edited mesh.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example the blocks and may be provided as one or more modules for example such as the one or more modules of the system of .

As an example a method can include providing a mesh of a geologic environment e.g. a two dimensional spatial mesh or a three dimensional spatial mesh that includes conformable sequences and an unconformity interpolating an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identifying an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents the unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. In such a method the iso surface that represents the unconformity may belong to one of the two of the conformable sequences.

As an example a method can include using an identified iso surface to split a mesh for example into a first mesh and a second mesh. As an example a method may include interpolating an implicit function defined with respect to a first mesh or a second mesh to provide values for an implicit function and identifying another iso surface within the first mesh or the second mesh based on a portion of the values.

As an example a method can include selecting a first mesh or a second mesh e.g. resulting from splitting a mesh based at least in part on a type of unconformity associated with an identified iso surface used to split the mesh and based at least in part on a portion of values of an implicit function for the identified iso surface.

As an example a method may include creating a model for modeling one or more physical phenomena based at least in part on an identified iso surface that represents an unconformity. As an example an unconformity may be one of an erosion a baselap and a discontinuity noting for example that one or more other types of unconformities may be defined and identified using an implicit function and interpolating values for the implicit function.

As an example a geologic environment may include one or more faults within a portion of at least one conformable sequences for example represented by a mesh e.g. or meshes .

As an example a method may include introducing topological discontinuities to represent geological fault surfaces in a provided mesh or an edited version thereof e.g. which may be a mesh resulting from one or more mesh splitting operations . As an example a method may include using fault surfaces for constraining geometry and topology of mesh elements of a provided mesh e.g. or an edited version thereof for example prior to introducing a topological discontinuity to the mesh.

As an example a method may include introducing a topological discontinuity representing a fault to at least one portion of the first mesh or to at least one portion of the second mesh e.g. where the first mesh and the second mesh result from a splitting operation based at least in part on an iso surface . In such an example the method may include identifying the at least one portion of the first mesh or the at least one portion of the second mesh based on for example sedimentological and tectonic history e.g. of one or more regions of a volume interest .

As an example values of an implicit function may be scalar field values. In such an example the values may be property values for example of an attribute e.g. consider a volume attribute . As an example continuity of an implicit function may be governed by continuity of a mesh e.g. of a geologic environment . As an example a method may include using data to represent an unconformity within a mesh.

As an example a mesh may include nodes e.g. vertices etc. . In such an example a method may include defining a linear system of equations that includes constraints defined with respect to at least a portion of the nodes. As an example a method may include interpolating an implicit function at least in part by solving a linear system of equations to provide values of the implicit function.

As an example a system can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory that include instructions executable by the processor to instruct the system to provide a mesh of a geologic environment that includes conformable sequences and at least one unconformity interpolate an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identify an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents one of the at least one unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. In such an example one or more modules stored in the memory may include instructions executable by the processor to instruct the system to edit the mesh based at least in part on an identified iso surface. As an example one or more modules stored in memory of a system that include instructions executable by the processor may instruct the system to define at least one unconformity as a member selected from a group consisting of an erosion a baselap and a discontinuity noting for example that one or more other types of unconformities may be defined.

As an example one or more computer readable storage media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing device to provide a mesh of a geologic environment that includes conformable sequences and at least one unconformity interpolate an implicit function defined with respect to the mesh to provide values for the implicit function and identify an iso surface based on a portion of the values where the iso surface represents one of the at least one unconformity as residing between two of the conformable sequences. In such an example instructions may be included to instruct a computing device to edit the mesh based at least in part on an identified iso surface to instruct a computing device to define at least one of the at least one unconformity as a member selected from a group consisting of an erosion a baselap and a discontinuity.

As an example a method may include a performance block for performing a simulation of phenomena associated with a geologic environment using at least a portion of a mesh e.g. or a model based on a mesh or meshes . As to performing a simulation such a simulation may include interpolating geological rock types interpolating petrophysical properties simulating fluid flow or other calculating e.g. or a combination of any of the foregoing .

As an example a system may include instructions to instruct a processor to perform a simulation of a physical phenomenon using at least a portion of a mesh e.g. or a model based on a mesh or meshes and for example to output results of the simulation to a display.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

As an example a device may be a mobile device that includes one or more network interfaces for communication of information. For example a mobile device may include a wireless network interface e.g. operable via IEEE 802.11 ETSI GSM BLUETOOTH satellite etc. . As an example a mobile device may include components such as a main processor memory a display display graphics circuitry e.g. optionally including touch and gesture circuitry a SIM slot audio video circuitry motion processing circuitry e.g. accelerometer gyroscope wireless LAN circuitry smart card circuitry transmitter circuitry GPS circuitry and a battery. As an example a mobile device may be configured as a cell phone a tablet etc. As an example a method may be implemented e.g. wholly or in part using a mobile device. As an example a system may include one or more mobile devices.

As an example a system may be a distributed environment for example a so called cloud environment where various devices components etc. interact for purposes of data storage communications computing etc. As an example a device or a system may include one or more components for communication of information via one or more of the Internet e.g. where communication occurs via one or more Internet protocols a cellular network a satellite network etc. As an example a method may be implemented in a distributed environment e.g. wholly or in part as a cloud based service .

As an example information may be input from a display e.g. consider a touchscreen output to a display or both. As an example information may be output to a projector a laser device a printer etc. such that the information may be viewed. As an example information may be output stereographically or holographically. As to a printer consider a 2D or a 3D printer. As an example a 3D printer may include one or more substances that can be output to construct a 3D object. For example data may be provided to a 3D printer to construct a 3D representation of a subterranean formation. As an example layers may be constructed in 3D e.g. horizons etc. geobodies constructed in 3D etc. As an example holes fractures etc. may be constructed in 3D e.g. as positive structures as negative structures etc. .

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

