---

title: Methods and systems for securing data by providing continuous user-system binding authentication
abstract: Devices, methods, and computer programs are presented for managing data security. One example method includes receiving user identification information from a screen of a device that is connectable to a database of secure information. The method proceeds to authenticating of the user identification information. The authenticating includes capturing image data of a user associated with the user identification information. The method further includes providing access to the database of secure information upon authenticating the user identification information, such that while the access is provided the capturing of the image data of the user is maintained. The method includes recording data of user interactive input and viewed images displayed on the screen while the access provided. The method binds the captured image data of the user to the recorded data to produce audit data for the user when accessing the database of secure information. The method is executed by a processor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09069980&OS=09069980&RS=09069980
owner: NSS Lab Works LLC
number: 09069980
owner_city: Saratoga
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 444 840 entitled Secure Display System for Prevention of Information Copying from a Display Screen System which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 474 255 filed Apr. 11 2011 and entitled Secure Display System for Prevention of Information Copying from any Display Screen System. Each above identified application is herein incorporated by reference.

The present embodiments relate to devices methods systems and computer programs for improving security and more particularly to devices methods systems and computer programs for improving security embedded in a presentation display.

Rapid evolution of technology and mass adoption of cheap devices such as tablets and electronic readers with high definition displays digital cameras 3D printers 3D scanners high capacity flash storage cards with embedded WiFi wide spread availability of Internet services etc. have introduced challenges to businesses and individuals to protect preserve and enhance their intellectual property and intellectual assets.

Devices methods computer programs and are presented for displaying information output of a host computer. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

Devices methods and computer programs are presented for managing data security. One example method includes receiving user identification information from a screen of a device that is connectable to a database of secure information. The method proceeds to authenticating of the user identification information. The authenticating includes capturing image data of a user associated with the user identification information. The method further includes providing access to the database of secure information upon authenticating the user identification information such that while the access is provided the capturing of the image data of the user is maintained. The method includes recording data of user interactive input and viewed images displayed on the screen while the access provided. The method binds the captured image data of the user to the recorded data to produce audit data for the user when accessing the database of secure information. The method is executed by a processor.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe devices methods systems and computer programs for improving security. In one embodiment a monitor is embedded with security circuitry to implement security on the monitor in order to protect the information presented at the monitor.

It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

Digital Cameras are now being embedded into eyewear glasses ID cards pens key chains barcode scanners and many are capable of shooting HD quality pictures at 30 frames per second or more. Taking copies of IPR assets creative designs PII Personally Identifiable Information PHI Personal Health Information is now a major business issue worldwide for businesses governments and individuals. Stolen information can be transmitted anywhere bypassing existing security measures employed today such as multi factor biometric access control firewalls intrusion detection systems Data Leak Prevention DLP systems Physical Access Control 15 Systems PACS etc.

2. data at rest i.e. data that resides in databases file systems and other structured storage methods 

Sensitive data in each of these data states with the possible exception of data in use may be secured using methods that render sensitive data unusable unreadable or indecipherable to unauthorized individuals such as encryption and destruction.

The exception case of data in use is a major issue because the data may be leaked via different channels a digital image taken with a digital camera copy cut paste of email contents a file copy a print screen to an electronic file etc.

While several solutions have attempted to solve the Digital copying problem the solutions have failed to address the Human factor component to act as a deterrent. References JP2001313006 ANTI PHOTOGRAPH STEALING DEVICE BY INFRA RED LIGHT REMOTE CONTROL SYSTEM AND ACCESS CONTROL METHOD FOR INFORMATION INPUT APPARATUS US20060242254 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RECEIVING INFRARED DATA WITH A CAMERA DESIGNED TO DETECT IMAGES BASED ON VISIBLE LIGHT US20110128384A1 US20040202382 Image capture method device and system US20100323608A1 System and method for preventing photography Systems and methods for disabling recording features of cameras US20070103552 .

These solutions do not address the data in use leak channel via computer display also called the last inch millimeter interface from the display to the user security a vulnerability that has been present ever since computers became prevalent.

In addition some embodiments provide circuitry that is embedded inside a computing device e.g. a display . In other embodiments the security solution may be distributed across two or more different devices. For example a separate computing device may be installed between a display and a personal computer where the computing device is also attached to a camera that monitors the user in front of the display.

The secure displays provide in display security enforcement and the displays are in communication with one or more remote security servers. In one embodiment the security servers include a policy server a remote policy enforcer and an administrator console . The policy server enforces security policies configured by the administrator and the remote enforcer receives information from the remote secure displays and provides security commands that are transmitted to the secured displays. The administrator console provides a Graphical User Interface GUI for configuring the security policies implemented by the system including the creation modification and deletion of users security levels security rules logging requirements etc.

In user is working on a personal computer which is attached to a secure display . The secure display includes a camera and a wireless communication module . The camera takes images of the area in front of the display and software inside the secure display analyzes the image information to detect potential security breaches such as an authorized user multiple users viewing the display a camera taking pictures of the information on the display etc. In one embodiment face recognition technology is utilized to determine the identity of the user operating the personal computer .

The wireless communication module e.g. a WiFi transceiver provides an alternate channel of communication from the secure display to a remote security server which is a different communications channel from the network connection utilized by the personal computer . This alternate communication channel provides a robust security solution that does not rely on the assets in the personal computer such as a NIC card for connecting to the network.

Besides IPR protection management the secure embodiments presented herein may be used for applications in work flow tracking and optimization manufacturing testing quality assurance payment systems and DRM applications. Embodiments prevent the copying or misuse of information displayed on any monitor by employing continuous context based smart activity processing technology. In one embodiment every user in the range of visibility of the monitor is continuously monitored and authenticated.

In an exemplary embodiment the secure display monitor includes a security control integrated circuit IC that interfaces with other modules within the display . The display further includes a display panel e.g. an LCD IC that drives the display panel a display buffer memory for storing pixel data to be displayed on the LCD a side band network interface and one or more sensors .

The security control integrated circuit shares a link to the host computer with the display panel IC . This link provides the data to be displayed on the monitor and may utilize one or more different protocols such as HDMI DVI DP etc. In addition the security control IC utilizes the side band network interface to communicate with a remote security server without having to rely on networking resources from the host. The side band network interface may utilize one or more communications protocols selected from a group consisting of USB serial port Ethernet WiFi Bluetooth GPRS any mobile communications protocol etc.

The sensors integrated in the display may include one or more of an infrared sensor image sensor proximity sensor biometric sensor e.g. fingerprint eye recognition etc. Brain Computer Interface BCI with integrated NFC RFID magnetic card reader microphone speaker etc. In one embodiment the sensors monitor communications near the monitor such as communications utilizing a mobile phone or a smart card being utilized by the user .

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different sensors additional modules or combine the functionality of two or more modules into a single module. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In another embodiment user is also authorized to operate with display . However there is a security policy that only one user is able to access the display at any time which causes the display being halted for having too many users accessing the display. This security policy may be useful when different users may access the same computing device but the users may have different access levels when using the computing device. By disabling two users from accessing the display at the same time the different security levels are enforced.

In one embodiment the collected information include user images screen captures audio segments images from area cameras and sensor data . The user images are taken with the camera integrated in the display or attached to the display to provide information regarding the user or users situated in front of the display. Policy rules defined how often pictures of the user are taken or under what circumstances. In one embodiment the images are taking every minute although other intervals may also be configured. In addition the user images may also be obtained when there are changes in front of the display e.g. a new user enters the area or when there is a large amount of data e.g. beyond a threshold level of data per unit of time being downloaded on the display. This guarantees that if a user is accessing a large amount of information the user s image is captured.

The screen captures provide as its name implies information regarding the appearance of the display at a given point in time. Similarly to the case of user images screen captures may be obtained periodically or be triggered by security events. In one embodiment the amount of data captured in the screen captures is reduced by eliminating some of the background information e.g. Windows background photo which is considered irrelevant for security purposes.

Audio segments may also be obtained periodically or when triggered by a security event e.g. voices detected near the secure display . Room cameras provide images of an area where the display is situated e.g. a room with a plurality of cubicles with workers in the cubicles . The sensor data provides information collected by the sensors such as temperature humidity air pressure etc. and may be collected periodically or triggered under certain events.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different types of information. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the biometric identity of the user is tied with the centrally available authentication system that uses a username and password or any other additional data such as physical location information time and date etc. The authentication utilizes multiple pieces of information to establish a physical presence of the user which is integrated with the trusted display and computer. The trusted e.g. secured display device is both first and last point of interface to the user and any protected information and services are protected and available for use by an authorized user.

In one embodiment the user is continuously authenticated throughout the session based on physical presence and using data signals from multiple sensors integrated with the Display such as cameras microphones speakers IR detectors thermometers proximity sensors. In one embodiment additional inputs from other external sensors are utilized such as pressure sensors weight sensors surveillance cameras in close proximity to the secured monitor in front of the user IP addresses MAC addresses physical location data etc. to improve system accuracy.

In one embodiment the secure display is built by adding the security circuit camera and WiFi module to an existing display. In another embodiment the secure display is built at a factory including all the modules identified in .

The security circuit analyzes images captured with image capture device which may be stored in memory or in a dedicated memory within security circuit . The image analysis is utilized to provide authentication of the user interfacing with the secure display as well as for detecting security events related to unauthorized use such as use by multiple users user not present in front of the display an authorized photograph taken of the display etc.

The security circuit transmits security related data e.g. see above with reference to via wireless communication module or via NIC . The camera jammer is a device that disables certain cameras from taking pictures in the vicinity of the display. For example the camera jammer may emit microwave pulses that disrupt the characteristic signals used in the microcircuitry of surveillance cameras or project a high intensity laser beam or an infrared beam at a camera. The memory includes a computer program to drive the LCD display and pixel information for the LCD display.

An area camera takes images of the work area of the user and may include the work area of other users. For example an area camera may take images of a plurality of cubicles in an office a hallway in an office floor an office with several desks the lobby of a building etc.

The security circuit is attached to the bus and controls the output to LCD by interfacing with the circuitry that drives the LCD e.g. processor and pixel memory . In addition the security circuit interfaces with WiFi module to send security data to security server and to receive security and configuration commands from security server . In one embodiment the security server sends authorized user information to the security server information regarding the users authorized to utilize the secure display the policy rules for implementing security in the secure display login parameters authenticated devices that may be utilized secure display e.g. computing device etc.

In one embodiment the security circuit manages the authentication of the host computing device via an authentication module embedded in the video interface coupled to the video interface in the host. In one embodiment Trusted Platform Module TPM authentication is utilized but other methods of authentication are also possible. TPM is both the name of a published specification detailing a secure cryptoprocessor that can store cryptographic keys that protect information as well as the general name of implementations of that specification often called the TPM chip or TPM Security Device .

The Trusted Platform Module offers facilities for the secure generation of cryptographic keys and limitation of their use in addition to a hardware pseudo random number generator. It also includes capabilities such as remote attestation and sealed storage. Remote attestation creates a nearly unforgeable hash key summary of the hardware and software configuration. The program encrypting the data determines the extent of the summary of the software. This allows a third party to verify that the software has not been changed. Binding encrypts data using the TPM endorsement key a unique RSA key burned into the chip during its production or another trusted key descended from it. Sealing encrypts data in similar manner to binding but in addition specifies a state in which the TPM must be in order for the data to be decrypted unsealed . Software can use a Trusted Platform Module to authenticate hardware devices. Since each TPM chip has a unique and secret RSA key burned in as it is produced it is capable of performing platform authentication. For example it can be used to verify that a system seeking access is the expected system. Generally pushing the security down to the hardware level in conjunction with software provides more protection than a software only solution.

In one embodiment a security monitor cloud service provides storage and processing capacity for performing security related operations such as searching security data analyzing data detecting possible threats within the data etc. A security monitor management gateway acts as the interface between the security management console system and the security monitor cloud service .

In one embodiment the computing resources are utilized for implementing the security policy as defined by the administrator utilizing the security management console system . In one embodiment the security policy comprises a plurality of security rules where each security rule defines one or more actions to be performed when certain conditions are met.

In one embodiment security monitor cloud service is also utilized to monitor the out of band communications originated at the protected visual security zone such as mobile telephony communications or any other type of wireless or wired communications taking place within the protected visual security zone .

The communications module manages the communications with the remote secure displays as well as other network communications regarding the management and administration of the secure server architecture. The administration module provides options user interfaces help etc. regarding the administration of the secure environment. An administration GUI provides a user interface for authenticating access by one or more administrators and for setting the administration parameters required to configure update delete service etc. the security architecture service.

The remote enforcement module exchanges management and control messages with the secure terminals and more specifically with the security circuitry in the secure terminals. For example the remote enforcement module may send commands to a security display regarding policy rules be implemented at the secure terminal users authenticated to use the secure display hosts computers authenticated to interface with the secure display authentication keys instructions to disable or enable the remote display etc. The remote enforcement module manages the data stored in a secure database including all the information received from secure displays.

The policy module manages the security policy and the rules comprising the security policy regarding the authorized use of secure displays. The security policy rules may be configured via the administration GUI . More details with reference to policy rules are given below with reference to . The security policy rules are stored in rules database .

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different modules fewer modules additional modules or combine the functionality of two or more modules into one module. In addition the functionality of the remote secure server may be distributed over a plurality of security servers. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment separate enterprise physical access control system PACs network is utilized to connect the secure monitor management gateway to the security management console system.

The logging of data is event driven as discussed above. In one embodiment the events may fall within different categories such as normal events exceptional events administration events etc. In addition the events may be time sliced that is a plurality of data items related to the secure display are captured simultaneously.

In one embodiment a GUI is provided to users of the secure displays in order to enable the users to view or get limited access to the information logged by the secure system. The user may be given total or partial access to the information. In one embodiment the user is able to select an option to request the deletion of some data from the system. For example a user may identify that during a certain period of time the user was accessing personal information on the display and the user may wish to have the information removed from the system. An administrator will then determine if the request is granted or denied.

In one embodiment user feedback is provided via a signal light similar to a video camera. The light is on indicator signals that recording is taking place. The secure monitor may also provide audio cues including different tones or computerized voice message etc. The audio cues alert the user that their activity is being actively tracked.

In another embodiment software selectable buttons are provided via a software menu or via hardware buttons on the monitor similar to the buttons on a DVR for play back of activities at any time. The alert light and the playback reinforce the message that their activity has been recorded and available for anyone to see including themselves thus eliminating the opportunity for theft enabling rationalization of good citizen behavior reducing incentives ROI for quick profit etc. The hardware or software buttons may also be controlled via access control so that only the appropriate user can access the stored data.

In one embodiment tagging the image of a user to the computer interactions enables the tracking of computer generated transactions regarding applications and data utilizing the user image as the tag or key. Additionally other tags may also be utilized for searches such as a computer display screen image. Thus data might be searched utilizing the user image key a screen capture time location etc. in order to better track user s activities.

By linking the image key to other meta data such as IP address MAC address CPU ID etc. it is possible to track search and manage user activities by linking these keys to existing network and server log commercial product solutions.

In one embodiment and Application Programming Interface API is provided to enable data access on user image key screen image key or some other capture security information. Current network and server log management often involve complex user interfaces. For example some search approaches utilize Regex operations extensively. By using the user image key approach log maintenance interface and activity is improved since humans are better at using visual techniques when compared to computers.

In one embodiment the API enabling the use of user image keys and display screen keys plus the associated metadata to interface with is used to enhance existing video surveillance equipment and physical access control products.

In one embodiment the user image key may be utilized at point of sales POS terminals to provide secure transactions while eliminating the threats of credential attacks. In addition in one embodiment the display screen image is utilized by performing OCR to extract and track itemized transaction details such as product price store aisle location cash paid credit debit card used coupons used etc.

In one embodiment the POS retail user data is gathered to provide custom services such as expense tracking serving shopping deals etc. by providing arbitrage interfaces to commerce such as a shop retailer a bank or a product vendor. In addition it is possible to enhance Bank remote teller ATM ACH mobile payments transactions security to eliminate physical credential attacks that are common today.

The events that may trigger a policy rule may include one or more of a timer expiring detection of a security threat detection of an unauthorized user detection of the use of an unauthorized application setting a timer detection of a photo taken of the display detection of multiple users in front of the display detection of an unauthorized user detection of voices or other sounds near the display detection of the temperature above a certain threshold temperature detection of an RFID card near the secure display detection of the establishment of a mobile phone call near the display etc.

In one embodiment a plurality of conditions associated with events may be combined utilizing logical operators e.g. AND OR NOT etc. . The policy rules may be implemented at the central security server at the secure display or both at the secure display and a central security server. In one embodiment a first set of rules is downloaded to the secure display for implementation by the security circuitry inside the secure display. In addition a second set of rules is implemented at the central security server.

In another embodiment a third set of rules are implemented that correlate information regarding more than one secure terminal. For example a policy rule may define to set up an alarm when all the secure displays in a room are left alone e.g. there is no user sitting in front of any of the secure displays .

The option to search data opens a new window that enables the administrator to enter search parameters for searching the security database. The search parameters may include a period of time user ID display ID log data e.g. find users from building that were using the word processor on Monday between 1 00 PM and 3 PM etc.

The alarms option provides a separate window to set alarms modify alarms delete alarms or review alarm information created by the system. The policy configuration option enables administrator to set the policy rules such as those described above with reference to . The administrator has the option to configure rules that are enforced at the remote display or that are enforced at the central security server or both.

The client configuration option enables the administrator to modify the client configuration e.g. add delete or modify users or remote displays . Information window shows a partial listing of terminal information including user is authorized to use the remote terminal maximum number of users that can use the terminal of the time security level of the terminal enabled schedule of operation location of the terminal policy rules for the terminal etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different options layouts etc. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

From operation the method flows to operation where a check is made regarding the validity of the display. If the display is validated the method flows to operation when the display is enabled and if the display is not enabled the method flows to operation where the display is disabled.

From operation method flows to operation where a check is made to determine if the event detected in operation is a security related event. In one embodiment a security event is an event resulting from the triggering of the conditions of one or more policy rules but other types of security events are also possible.

If a security event is detected the method flows to operation where the event is analyzed. In one embodiment the remote display is disabled if the security policy determines that the security event requires disablement of the remote display. In addition other types of actions may be performed based on the security event as described above with reference to . From operation the method flows to operation where the system waits for an event that triggers the re enablement of the remote display.

From operation the method flows to operation where a check is performed to determine if the security event requires logging data. If data needs to be logged the method flows to operation to log the data and to operation to transmit the data to the remote security server.

In operation a check is performed to determine if the event is a control event. In one embodiment a control event is a command received from the secure server to be performed by the secure display although other type of control events are also possible. If the security event is a control event the method flows to operation where the command associated with the control event is executed and an acknowledgment that the command has been performed is sent back to the server in operation . From operation the method flows back to operation to check for new security events.

Mass storage device represents a persistent data storage device such as a floppy disc drive or a fixed disc drive which may be local or remote. Network interface provides connections via network allowing communications with other devices. It should be appreciated that CPU may be embodied in a general purpose processor a special purpose processor or a specially programmed logic device. Input Output I O interface provides communication with different peripherals and is connected with CPU RAM ROM and mass storage device through bus . Sample peripherals include display keyboard cursor control removable media device etc.

Display is configured to display the user interfaces described herein. Keyboard cursor control removable media device and other peripherals are coupled to I O interface in order to communicate information in command selections to CPU . It should be appreciated that data to and from external devices may be communicated through I O interface . The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

a panel defined from a plurality of light emitting devices that are arranged to define an area for displaying the information output from the host computer 

an integrated circuit disposed in communication with the display logic and the panel the integrated circuit configured to intercept or examine the information output from the host computer the data of the sensor being analyzed for security control while enabling the information output to be presented to the display logic wherein the display processor causes the light emitting devices of the panel to activate and the sensor for capturing data is configured to trigger a plurality of times during a use of the panel and

a communication device for enabling the integrated circuit to communicate with a remote computer without communication with the host computer.

A2. The panel of claim A1 wherein the security control is configured to validate policies for the data captured proximate to the panel.

A3. The panel of claim A1 wherein the security control is configured to disable transfer of the intercepted information from being displayed on the panel by the display processor.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Any of the operations described herein are useful machine operations. The e also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose such as a special purpose computer. When defined as a special purpose computer the computer can also perform other processing program execution or routines that are not part of the special purpose while still being capable of operating for the special purpose. Alternatively the operations may be processed by a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by one or more computer programs stored in the computer memory cache or obtained over a network. When data is obtained over a network the data may be processed by other computers on the network e.g. a cloud of computing resources.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium is any non transitory data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable storage medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable storage medium can include computer readable storage medium distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other housekeeping operations may be performed in between operations or operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing as long as the processing of the overlay operations are performed in the desired way.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the embodiments are not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

