---

title: Multimedia-enhanced emergency call systems
abstract: A gateway device may be configured to receive, from a first user device, a request to establish a Web Real-Time Communications (“WebRTC”) call session; establish, based on the request, a first WebRTC call session with the user device; establish, based on the request: a voice call session between the gateway device and an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem (“IMS”) core, and a second WebRTC call session between the gateway device and a WebRTC portal server; and facilitate, via the established voice call session and the established first and second WebRTC call sessions, multimedia communication connectivity between the first user device and a set of devices that include: a public-switched telephone network (“PSTN”) terminal device, and a second user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113030&OS=09113030&RS=09113030
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09113030
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130725
---
Public safety answering points PSAPs are call centers that are responsible for answering emergency calls such as 9 1 1 calls. These calls may be placed when an emergency occurs and police firefighters or medical services are desired. PSAPs traditionally receive voice calls over the public switched telephone network PSTN which may provide reliable high quality connectivity. Due to the technological limitations of the PSTN voice calls may be the only type of communications that users may use when calling a PSAP. Furthermore due to regulations or reliability concerns it may be unfeasible for a PSAP to replace its PSTN connectivity with another type of communication technology e.g. an Internet protocol IP based technology .

Present day user devices such as smart phones are able to send and receive multimedia calls e.g. voice and video calls . Certain technologies exist in order to facilitate the efficiency and or user experience of such multimedia calls such as the Web Real Time Communications WebRTC application programming interface API . Since PSAPs generally need to retain their PSTN connectivity PSAPs may not be capable of placing or receiving multimedia calls.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Techniques described herein may allow for enhanced communication between users who have diverse types of devices with various communication capabilities. Such techniques may be useful in situations where a call participant desires to retain traditional communication connectivity while adding more full featured communication techniques as well. For instance such a situation may occur where an operator of a PSAP may desire to retain voice connectivity for the PSAP via the PSTN but also to allow the PSAP to carry out multimedia calls e.g. video calls voice and video calls or other types of multimedia calls . As described in more detail below some implementations may allow such a PSAP to add additional devices which may be capable of carrying out multimedia calls without replacing PSTN communication techniques. In some implementations for example the PSAP may receive a voice portion of a call simultaneously via the PSTN and a multimedia portion e.g. a video portion or video and voice portions of the call via another network e.g. the Internet .

As shown in for example assume that a user of device which is capable of placing and receiving multimedia calls using the WebRTC API wishes to place a multimedia emergency call to a PSAP e.g. by dialing 9 1 1 . For instance the user may desire to place a call which includes video in order to show the scene of an accident to an emergency responder or an operator at the PSAP. Further assume that the PSAP includes non WebRTC capable device and WebRTC capable device . Device may correspond to for instance a traditional landline telephone while device may correspond to for instance a desktop workstation computer which is configured to communicate via the WebRTC API.

In accordance with some implementations described herein the call may be routed from the user s device to WebRTC gateway . As described further below based on a multimedia call received from device WebRTC gateway may facilitate the placing of a voice call on the behalf of device to device via the PSTN. WebRTC gateway may additionally facilitate the placing of a multimedia call on the behalf of device to device e.g. via the Internet . Once the calls are established WebRTC gateway may split multimedia signals received from device into a voice portion for transmitting to device and a multimedia portion for transmitting to device . Similarly WebRTC gateway may combine a voice portion received from device and a multimedia portion received from device into a multimedia call for transmitting to device .

User device may include any computation and communication device that is capable of directly or indirectly communicating with one or more networks such as PDN IMS core and or PSTN . In some implementations user device may communicate with PDN IMS core or PSTN via one or more access networks such as access network . User device may include for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a device that combines a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a tablet computer a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation and communication device.

In some implementations user device may be capable of carrying out communications e.g. voice over Internet protocol VoIP calls video calls and or other types of communications by communicating with other devices via PDN and or IMS core . These communications may include multimedia calls which may include a video portion and or a voice portion. In some such implementations the multimedia call may be carried out by user device by using a WebRTC API e.g. as provided for by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C in the technical document by Bergkvist et al. WebRTC 1.0 Real time Communication Between Browsers W3C Editor s Draft 3 Jun. 2013 . In some implementations the multimedia call may be carried out using additional or different standards APIs and or protocols. For instance the WebRTC communications may be sent and or received by user device via a Session Initiation Protocol SIP and or a Real time Transport Protocol RTP connection with WebRTC portal server and or WebRTC IMS gateway .

PSTN terminal device may include a communication device that is capable of directly or indirectly communicating with one or more other devices via PSTN . In some implementations PSTN terminal device may include for example a landline telephone device and or another device that is capable of carrying out voice communications with other devices via PSTN .

WebRTC portal server may include any computation and communication device that provides a web based multimedia portal to one or more user devices . As will be further described WebRTC portal server may receive a multimedia portion of a call from one particular user device e.g. via PDN and or one or more other networks and may provide the multimedia portion of the call to another user device .

Access network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks via which user device may communicate with other networks such as with PDN . Access network may in some implementations include a radio access network RAN that is associated with an evolved packet system EPS that includes a LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The RAN may include one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an evolved node B eNB via which user device may communicate with the EPC network. The EPC network may include one or more serving gateways SGWs PDN gateways PGWs and or mobility management entities MMEs and may enable user device to communicate with PDN and or IMS core . In some implementations access network may additionally or alternatively include other types of networks such as a wired Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN and or another type of network.

PDN may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. PDN may include for example a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or one or more other packet switched networks. User device may connect through PDN to other networks data servers application servers or other servers applications that are coupled to PDN . PDN may in some implementations be an IP based network.

IMS core may include one or more computation and communication devices that implement IMS functionality of a LTE network. IMS core may include for example one or more Call Session Control Function CSCF devices a Home Subscriber Server Authentication Authorization and Accounting HSS AAA server and or other devices. The CSCF may facilitate the establishment and de establishment of media sessions. The CSCF may communicate with devices outside of IMS core using for example SIP and or Message Session Relay Protocol MSRP messages. The HSS AAA server may assist in the provisioning of network resources for IMS subscribers and IMS based services.

WebRTC IMS gateway may include any computation and communication device that facilitates communication between user device PSTN terminal device WebRTC portal server and IMS core . As further described below WebRTC IMS gateway may split multimedia calls into voice and multimedia portions and or may combine voice and multimedia portions of a call into a multimedia call. In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may translate messages sent from user device to IMS core from WebRTC messaging to a messaging protocol that is supported by IMS core e.g. SIP and or MSRP and vice versa. In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may be incorporated as part of IMS core may connect to IMS core via PDN or may communicate with IMS core in another fashion.

While one WebRTC IMS gateway is shown in in practice multiple WebRTC IMS gateways may be used. For instance a first WebRTC IMS gateway may receive a WebRTC communication may translate some or all of the WebRTC communication to a SIP and or a MSRP communication and may forward the SIP and or the MSRP communication to IMS core . A different WebRTC IMS gateway may receive the SIP and or the MSRP communication from IMS core may translate the received communication to WebRTC and may forward the WebRTC communication to another device.

PSTN may include a circuit switched network that allows for communication between devices. For instance PSTN may allow for communication between PSTN terminal devices and other PSTN terminal devices and or other networks e.g. IMS core .

As shown in example user device may include voice call component WebRTC component and trigger component . Voice call component may include circuitry and or software that allows user device to send and or receive voice communications e.g. a voice call or a voice portion of a multimedia call . For example voice call component may include a wireless radio e.g. a LTE radio a wireless LAN WLAN radio a Bluetooth radio and or another type of radio that allows user device to communicate via access network with IMS core and or PSTN . In some implementations the voice calls placed or received by voice call component may be VoIP calls.

WebRTC component may include circuitry and or software that allows user device to send and or receive multimedia communications e.g. communications that include video video and voice chat and or other types of multimedia communications . In some implementations WebRTC component may allow user device to communicate via a WebRTC API which may be implemented over a RTP connection with for example WebRTC portal server and or WebRTC IMS gateway .

Trigger component may include circuitry and or software that notifies WebRTC component when a voice call is initiated by or received by voice call component . For instance assume a user of user device places a call using voice call component . Trigger component may notify WebRTC component that a call was placed by voice call component and may cause WebRTC component to place a corresponding multimedia call e.g. a WebRTC call .

As shown in example WebRTC IMS gateway may include signaling gateway external IP address component and voice multimedia splitter combiner . Signaling gateway may include circuitry and or hardware that allows WebRTC IMS gateway to notify IMS core of various types of calls e.g. voice calls and multimedia calls which may facilitate the establishment of communication channels for these calls. In some implementations signaling gateway may communicate with IMS core using SIP and or other protocols and may communicate with user devices and or WebRTC portal server using SIP and or Representational State Transfer REST protocol and or other protocols.

External IP address component may include circuitry and or hardware that allows a querying device e.g. user device to receive information regarding an externally visible IP address and or port of the querying device. External IP address component may use Session Traversal Utilities for Network Address Translation STUN Interactive Connectivity Establishment ICE and or Traversal Using Relays around NAT TURN techniques in order to determine an externally visible IP address and or port of the querying device. As described below a particular user device may in some implementations use its externally visible IP address and port when establishing a WebRTC call.

Voice multimedia splitter combiner may include circuitry and or hardware that splits a multimedia call into component portions. For instance assume that WebRTC IMS gateway receives a WebRTC call that includes a video portion and a voice portion from user device . Voice multimedia splitter combiner may establish a WebRTC connection with a destination e.g. a particular WebRTC portal server that is associated with an indicated callee of the WebRTC call and may also establish a PSTN call with a destination e.g. a particular PSTN terminal device that is associated with the indicated callee .

In some implementations voice multimedia splitter combiner may transcode WebRTC communications or portions of WebRTC communications using certain types of audio video codecs to other types of communications using different types of audio video codecs. Similarly voice multimedia splitter combiner may transcode non WebRTC communications to WebRTC communications. In some implementations voice multimedia splitter combiner may combine multiple different communications e.g. a non WebRTC voice communication and a WebRTC video communication a non WebRTC voice communication and a non WebRTC video communication or other combinations of types of communications into a single WebRTC communication. When combining different communications voice multimedia splitter combiner may perform a syncing and or buffering operation to ensure that different portions are properly combined e.g. that voice in the combined communication is synced with video in the combined communication . For example voice multimedia splitter combiner may sync the voice and video in the combined communication based on timestamps associated with the respective received voice and multimedia communications.

As shown in example IMS core may include CSCF and PSTN gateway . CSCF may communicate with devices inside and or outside of IMS core using for example SIP and or MSRP messages. For instance CSCF may receive messages from signaling gateway of WebRTC IMS gateway indicating that a voice call and or a multimedia call should be established. CSCF may facilitate the establishment of these calls by for example sending set up messages to WebRTC IMS gateway and or PSTN gateway . These setup messages may include for instance SIP INVITE messages SIP ACK messages and or other setup messages.

PSTN gateway may interwork signaling and transcode voice communications e.g. voice communications received from user device and or from WebRTC IMS gateway into PSTN signaling and voice communications which may be delivered to PSTN terminal device via PSTN . Similarly PSTN gateway may interwork PSTN signaling and transcode PSTN voice communications received from PSTN terminal device into other types of signaling e.g. SIP and communications e.g. RTP communications for delivery to user device and or another device. In some implementations PSTN gateway may perform PSTN signaling based on other types of signaling e.g. SIP signaling . For instance PSTN gateway may receive an SIP INVITE message indicating a telephone number associated with PSTN terminal device and may output a message e.g. an initial address message IAM to initiate a PSTN call to PSTN terminal device .

Process may include receiving information identifying a callee block . For instance WebRTC portal server may receive information regarding a callee for whom a WebRTC portal should be generated. In general this information may be received as part of a registration process for a callee who may wish to augment the callee s communication capabilities. For example a PSAP which is associated with PSTN communications may desire to add WebRTC capability to the PSAP s facilities. To this end a user such as an administrator associated with the PSAP may register the PSAP with WebRTC portal server . The information received at block may include for example a telephone number e.g. a 10 digit PSTN telephone number a 7 digit PSTN telephone number a 3 digit PSTN emergency telephone number etc. . In some implementations the information regarding the callee may include additional or different information identifying the callee.

Process may also include generating a web accessible WebRTC portal associated with the callee block . For instance WebRTC portal server may generate or execute server side code e.g. server side JavaScript code server side Personal Home Page PHP code etc. that allows for WebRTC calls be sent and received. The WebRTC portal may be associated with a network location identifier e.g. an IP address a uniform resource locator URL or another network location identifier which may be accessed by a particular user device e.g. a user device associated with the callee . In some implementations when the WebRTC portal is accessed by user device WebRTC portal server may provide a web page to user device which includes client side code e.g. client side JavaScript code client side PHP code etc. which may allow user device to communicate with WebRTC portal server to send and receive WebRTC calls. In some implementations user device may execute a software application such as a WebRTC enabled web browser in order to run the client side code.

In some implementations before generating at block the web accessible WebRTC portal WebRTC portal server may perform an authentication procedure to verify that the request received at block is genuine. For instance in some implementations WebRTC portal server may place an automated call using interactive voice response IVR to the callee in order to verify that the callee desires to register for an enhanced call service. In some situations WebRTC portal server may require heightened authentication based on the type of callee. For instance if the callee is a PSAP with a 3 digit emergency PSTN telephone number WebRTC portal server may require manual verification from an administrator of WebRTC portal server .

Process may additionally include outputting location information for the WebRTC portal. For instance WebRTC portal server may output the location identifier e.g. the above mentioned IP address or URL to the callee. As discussed above the callee may access the WebRTC portal using this location identifier in order to send or receive multimedia calls using WebRTC. In some implementations WebRTC portal server may output information to WebRTC IMS gateway indicating that the callee is associated with the WebRTC portal. WebRTC IMS gateway may use this information when routing calls to and or from the callee.

Process may include receiving WebRTC multimedia communications block . For example as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may receive a WebRTC multimedia communication which may include video audio and or other multimedia from user device .

Process may also include outputting a voice portion of the communication to a PSTN gateway block . For example as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may split the multimedia communication received at block into a voice portion and a multimedia portion and may output the voice portion to PSTN gateway .

Process may additionally include outputting a multimedia portion of the communication to a WebRTC portal server block . For example as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may output the multimedia portion to WebRTC portal server .

In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may output the WebRTC communication e.g. the entirety of the WebRTC communication received at block to WebRTC portal server . For instance assume that the received WebRTC communication includes voice and video portions. In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may output at block both the voice and the video portions to WebRTC portal server . In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may output the voice portion to PSTN gateway and may output the video portion with or without the voice portion to WebRTC portal server .

Process may include receiving a multimedia portion of a communication block . For instance as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may receive a WebRTC communication from for example a particular user device or from WebRTC portal server . The multimedia portion of the communication received at block may include for example video and or voice.

Process may also include receiving a voice portion of a communication block . For instance as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may receive a voice communication from PSTN gateway . The voice communication may correspond to the multimedia portion of the communication. That is for instance the voice communication may include or be associated with signaling information indicating that indicates that the voice communication is associated with the multimedia portion received at block .

Process may additionally include outputting the multimedia and voice portions via WebRTC block . For instance as described above with respect to WebRTC IMS gateway may combine the multimedia and voice portions received at blocks and respectively into a single WebRTC communication and output the WebRTC communication to for example user device and or WebRTC portal server . In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may determine that the multimedia portion received at block includes a voice portion. In some such implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may omit the voice portion received at block when performing the outputting at block . In some such implementations it may be unnecessary for WebRTC IMS gateway to perform a combining operation if the multimedia portion includes a voice portion since the voice portion received at block may be redundant with the voice already included in the multimedia portion.

Additionally for the purposes of conceptually describing certain devices as being associated with certain parties some of these devices are illustrated in in a single block. For example in PSTN terminal device and user device are illustrated within a single block. However in practice PSTN terminal device and user device may in some implementations be separate devices with no actual direct communication between one another. In some implementations however some of the devices that are illustrated within a single block may be integrated within a single device.

The callee may be associated with a second user device shown in as WebRTC user device which may also be WebRTC capable. The callee may also be associated with PSTN terminal device . As described above with respect to the callee may have previously registered with WebRTC portal server in order to allow the callee to receive PSTN calls via PSTN terminal device and corresponding multimedia calls via the callee s user device .

As shown in user device may output at a request via a STUN protocol for an externally visible IP address and port associated with a WebRTC application of user device . In some implementations user device may output the request to a first WebRTC IMS gateway shown in as WebRTC IMS gateway . In other implementations user device may output the request to another device or may forgo outputting the request at all e.g. user device may determine its own externally visible IP address and port using some other technique . WebRTC IMS gateway may provide information back to user device in response to the request indicating the externally visible IP address and port of the WebRTC application of user device .

As further shown user device may output at to WebRTC IMS gateway a request to establish a WebRTC call. In some implementations the request may include a PSTN telephone number associated with the callee and or another identifier e.g. an IP address a URL an email address a user name and or another identifier . WebRTC IMS gateway may reply to the request in order to establish a WebRTC session with user device .

WebRTC IMS gateway may output at a request to IMS core specifically in some implementations to CSCF requesting that a voice call session be established between WebRTC IMS gateway and PSTN gateway . In some implementations this request may be in the form of an SIP INVITE message and may indicate that the intended recipient of the voice call is PSTN terminal device . Based on receiving the message at CSCF may output a message e.g. an SIP INVITE message to PSTN gateway indicating that PSTN signals received from PSTN terminal device should be translated and forwarded to WebRTC IMS gateway and that voice signals received from WebRTC IMS gateway should be translated and forwarded to PSTN terminal device .

Based on the setup message received at PSTN gateway may output at a signal to PSTN terminal device to initiate a voice call between IMS core or more specifically in some implementations PSTN gateway and PSTN terminal device . This message may in some implementations cause PSTN terminal device to ring.

WebRTC IMS gateway may also output at a request to set up a WebRTC call. While shown in as separate messages in some implementations the requests at and may be sent as a single message. Based on the request at CSCF may identify another WebRTC IMS gateway WebRTC IMS gateway with which WebRTC IMS gateway should communicate via WebRTC. For instance WebRTC IMS gateway may be connected to or associated with network hardware of IMS core via which communications will be routed to and or from user device .

Based on this determination CSCF may output at a message to WebRTC IMS gateway indicating that a WebRTC call session should be established between WebRTC IMS gateway and WebRTC IMS gateway . This message may further indicate that the WebRTC call session is associated with the voice call established at . As further shown based on the request received at WebRTC IMS gateway may output a request to WebRTC portal server to establish a WebRTC call. Based on this request WebRTC portal server may output at a request to establish a WebRTC call between WebRTC portal server and user device . For instance WebRTC portal server may send a message to user device e.g. an email an instant message or another type of message to user device and or another device associated with the callee.

In some implementations a web browser of user device may display a web page provided by WebRTC portal server . As mentioned above this web page may include client side code that interacts with server side code that is executed by WebRTC portal server . In some such implementations as part of establishing at the WebRTC call WebRTC portal server may present via the web page an indication that a WebRTC call associated with the incoming PSTN call at is incoming. This presentation may include for instance a selectable graphical option e.g. a button being made available on the web page.

Once the voice portion of the call is established between WebRTC IMS gateway and PSTN terminal device at for example and the WebRTC call is established between WebRTC IMS gateway and user device at for example a conceptual end to end enhanced call between user device and the callee s devices user device and PSTN terminal device may be considered to be established at indicated in with a dashed line . As shown in the figure once enhanced call is established user device may send and or receive WebRTC communications that are directed to and or are received from user device and or PSTN terminal device . Similarly user device may receive some or all of the portions of the multimedia communications sent from user device and PSTN terminal device may receive a voice portion of the multimedia communications sent from user device .

As shown user device may establish at a WebRTC call with WebRTC portal server which may in turn establish at a WebRTC call with user device . WebRTC portal server may also as shown output at a request to IMS core to set up a voice call. Based on this request IMS core may establish at a PSTN voice call with PSTN terminal device . Once the WebRTC call is established between WebRTC portal server and user device at for example and the voice call is established between WebRTC portal server and user device at for example a conceptual end to end enhanced call between user device and the callee s devices user device and PSTN terminal device may be considered to be established at indicated in with a dashed line .

The voice component of user device may output at a request to establish a voice call. For instance a user may have dialed a PSTN telephone number associated with PSTN terminal device . The call request may be received by IMS core which may establish at a PSTN call with PSTN terminal device . As further shown the voice call request from user device may trigger the WebRTC component of user device to request at the establishment of a WebRTC call. Signals may be similar to signals shown in . Briefly signals may correspond to the establishment of WebRTC call channels that allow WebRTC communications to be communicated between WebRTC IMS gateway and user device . Once the WebRTC call is established between WebRTC IMS gateway and user device at for example and the voice call is established between user device and PSTN terminal device at for example a conceptual end to end enhanced call between user device and the callee s devices user device and PSTN terminal device may be considered to be established at indicated in with a dashed line .

IMS core may establish at a corresponding call session with WebRTC IMS gateway via which multimedia communications associated with the call may be transmitted between IMS core and WebRTC IMS gateway . In some implementations WebRTC IMS gateway may determine that an enhanced multimedia call is being made e.g. a call that should be split into voice and multimedia portions and may output at a request to IMS core to establish a voice call session.

Based on the request at IMS core may establish at a PSTN voice call with PSTN terminal device . Also based on the request at WebRTC IMS gateway may establish at a corresponding WebRTC session with WebRTC portal server . As described above WebRTC IMS gateway may facilitate communications between WebRTC portal server and IMS core by translating communications from WebRTC to communication techniques supported by IMS core e.g. RTP and vice versa. In turn WebRTC portal server may establish at a WebRTC call with user device .

Once the WebRTC call is established between WebRTC IMS gateway and user device at for example and the voice call is established between WebRTC IMS gateway and PSTN terminal device at for example a conceptual end to end enhanced call between user device and the callee s devices user device and PSTN terminal device may be considered to be established at indicated in with a dashed line . For instance assume that user device sends at non WebRTC multimedia communications to IMS core which may forward at the multimedia communication to WebRTC IMS gateway . WebRTC IMS gateway may forward at a voice portion of the communication to IMS core which may forward at the voice portion to PSTN terminal device via PSTN . WebRTC IMS gateway may also forward at a multimedia portion of the communication to WebRTC portal server via WebRTC which may forward at the WebRTC multimedia portion to user device .

As another example assume that communications are received from the callee s devices and . For example PSTN terminal device may output at a voice communication to IMS core via PSTN and user device may output at a WebRTC multimedia communication to WebRTC portal server . IMS core may forward at the voice portion to WebRTC IMS gateway and WebRTC portal server may forward at the multimedia portion to WebRTC IMS gateway . WebRTC IMS gateway may appropriately combine the voice and multimedia portions e.g. as described above and forward at the combined multimedia communication to IMS core . In turn IMS core may output at the combined multimedia portion to user device .

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Also while illustrate example signal flow diagrams in practice variations of the illustrated examples are possible. For instance in some implementations fewer additional or different signals may be transmitted as compared to those shown in the example signal flow diagrams. For example additional signals may be transmitted before after or in between the example illustrated signals.

Additionally while example implementations are described above in the context of WebRTC in practice other services protocols and or APIs may be implemented using similar techniques. For instance in addition to or in lieu of the WebRTC API some implementations may use a different standard API or protocol altogether in order to implement multimedia communications. Furthermore term voice as used in this document may refer to any audio that may or may not actually include a user s voice. Additionally the term multimedia as used in this document may refer to a single type of media such as video only.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

