---

title: Universal design layout compliance
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and systems for generating a common design rule check (DRC) rule set for verification of a design layout and for generating a common dummy insertion utility for design layout processing are provided. That is, the common DRC rule set comprises a set of design rules having design rule constraint values corresponding to a restriction threshold, such as a most restrictive value. The common dummy insertion utility is used to insert dummy polygons into a design layout according to a dummy size constraint and a dummy spacing constraint. The design layout is verified as compliant with the common DRC rule set. Once verified, the design layout can be converted from a universal design layout format to a target metal scheme to create a transformed design layout. In this way, design layouts, formatted according to the universal design layout, can be transformed to other formats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832623&OS=08832623&RS=08832623
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08832623
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130328
---
Electronic design tools allow designers to layout simulate and analyze electrical components such as integrated circuits. For example a design layout can comprise one or more polygons representing metal structures such as metal lines vias or other structures. The design layout can comprise one or more layers that are generated based upon metal schemes. For example a first metal layer can be formed according to a first metal scheme having a first design rule check DRC rule set specifying various design rules such as a minimum spacing constraint between polygons a minimum width constraint of a polygon an enclosure constraint where a first polygon is enclosed by a second polygon or a variety of other design rules. Because various designers can use different metal schemes for design layouts e.g. a first designer specifies a second metal scheme for a second metal layer and a third metal scheme for a third metal layer of a first design layout whereas a second designer specifies a fourth metal scheme for a second metal layer and a fifth metal scheme for a third metal layer of a second design layout a fabricator has to maintain a relatively large set of metal schemes.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and techniques for generating a common design rule check DRC rule set for verification of a design layout and for generating a common dummy insertion utility are provided herein. In some embodiments of generating a common DRC rule set a set of design rules are derived from one or more DRC rule sets associated with metal schemes. For example a first metal scheme is associated with a first DRC rule set a second metal scheme is associated with a second DRC rule set a third metal scheme is associated with a third DRC rule set etc. A DRC rule set comprises one or more design rules such as a spacing constraint a width constraint a via size constraint an enclosure constraint etc. In an example DRC rule sets can have differing design rule constraint values for design constraints. For example a first DRC rule set specifies a 0.2 width constraint where a polygon is to have a width of at least 0.2 units while a second DRC rule set specifies a 0.4 width constraint where a polygon is to have a width of at least 0.4 units. Satisfaction of the first DRC rule set does not necessarily mean satisfaction of the second DRC rule set such as a polygon having a width of 0.3 units. However satisfaction of the second DRC rule set will satisfy the first DRC rule set such as a polygon having a width of 0.8 units.

For respective design rules within the set of design rules one or more DRC rule sets are evaluated to identify a design rule constraint value for a design rule based upon the design rule constraint value corresponding to a restriction threshold. In some embodiments the restriction threshold specifies that a first design rule constraint value is to be selected over a second design rule constraint value because the first design rule constraint value is relatively more restrictive. For example the 0.4 width constraint is relatively more restrictive than the 0.2 width constraint because a width that satisfies the 0.4 width constraint such as a polygon having a width of 0.6 will satisfy the 0.2 width constraint. The design rule constraint value is assigned to the design rule for inclusion within the common DRC rule set. In this way the common DRC rule set comprises a set of design rules that will satisfy the one or more DRC rule sets associated with the metal schemes. Thus a design layout can be verified as being compliant with the common DRC rule set and or a DRC rule set associated with a metal scheme assigned for the design layout.

In some embodiments a dummy insertion utility is generated based upon the one or more DRC rule sets. The dummy insertion utility comprises a dummy size constraint having a dummy size constraint value corresponding to a dummy size restriction threshold such as a largest dummy size constraint value out of the one or more DRC rule sets. The dummy insertion utility comprises a dummy spacing constraint having a dummy spacing constraint value corresponding to a dummy spacing restriction threshold such as a largest dummy spacing constraint value out of the one or more DRC rule sets. It may be appreciated that the dummy insertion utility may comprise other constraints. Accordingly the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not limited to the examples provided herein. In this way the dummy insertion utility can insert one or more dummy polygons into the design layout to generate a filled design layout that will satisfy the one or more DRC rule sets and the common DRC rule set.

In some embodiments the design layout or the filled design layout can be transformed from a universal design layout format corresponding to the common DRC rule set and a metal scheme rule set of the universal design layout format to a transformed design layout according to a target metal scheme. For example a DRC component creates a universal design layout from a design layout based upon a metal scheme for the universal design layout format. The DRC component verifies that the universal design layout is compliant with a common DRC rule set and or a DRC rule set for the metal scheme of the universal design layout format. A common dummy insertion utility inserts one or more dummy polygons into the universal design layout to create a filled universal design layout. The DRC component verifies that the filled universal design layout is compliant with the DRC rule set for the metal scheme and or the common DRC rule set. A transformation component transforms the filled universal design layout into a transformed design layout according to a target metal scheme. The DRC component verifies that the transformed design layout is compliant with the common DRC rule set and or a DRC rule set for the target metal scheme. In this way the design layout is transformed into the transformed design layout.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects can be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method of generating a common design rule check DRC rule set for verification of a design layout according to some embodiments is illustrated in . A design layout comprises one or more polygons representing metal structures such as metal lines vias or other structures. The design layout comprises one or more layers such as a first metal layer a second metal layer or other metal layers that are constructed based upon one or more metal schemes. For example a first metal layer is assigned to a first metal scheme a second metal layer is assigned to the first metal scheme a third metal layer is assigned to a second metal scheme a fourth metal layer is assigned to the first metal scheme etc. Because numerous metal schemes or combinations thereof can be used for different design layouts and various layers of such design layouts a universal design layout capable of satisfying DRC rule sets for the metal schemes can be used to generate a design layout that will satisfy a common DRC rule set derived from the DRC rule sets for the metal schemes. For example a design layout that satisfies the common DRC rule set will satisfy the DRC rule sets because the common DRC rule set is based upon design rule constraint values corresponding to a restriction threshold such as a most restrictive design constraint value from the DRC rule sets.

At the common DRC rule set is generated. The common DRC rule set comprises a set of design rules derived from one or more DRC rule sets associated with metal schemes. One or more DRC rule sets are illustrated by example in . A DRC rule set comprises one or more design rules such as a spacing constraint specifying a minimum spacing between polygons a width constraint specifying a minimum width for a polygon a via size constraint specifying a minimum size for a via an enclosure constraint a dummy spacing constraint for a dummy polygon a dummy size constraint for a dummy polygon or other constraints not illustrated. A first DRC rule set for a first metal scheme comprises design rule constraint values for one or more design rules such as 0.09 for the spacing constraint 0.2 for the width constraint 2 for the via size constraint 1 for the enclosure constraint 0.2 for a dummy spacing constraint 0.4 for the dummy size constraint etc. A second DRC rule set for a second metal scheme comprises design rule constraint values for the one or more design rules. Other DRC rule sets such as a DRC rule set can be associated with other metal schemes. The common DRC rule set can be derived from the one or more DRC rule sets. In an example relatively more restrictive design rule constraint values are selected over relatively less restrictive design rule constraint values. For example a spacing constraint value of 0.12 within the DRC rule set is selected over the spacing constraint value of 0.09 within the first DRC rule set and a spacing constraint value of 0.1 within the second DRC rule set . In this way satisfaction of the spacing constraint value of 0.12 within the common DRC rule set will satisfy the spacing constraint within the first DRC rule set the second DRC rule set and the DRC rule set .

At for respective design rules within the set of design rules one or more DRC rule sets are evaluated to identify a design rule constraint value for a design rule at . The design rule constraint value is identified based upon the design rule constraint value corresponding to a restriction threshold. In some embodiments the restriction threshold specifies that a first design rule constraint value is selected over a second design rule constraint value based upon the first design rule constraint value being relatively more restrictive. For example a via size constraint value of 3.2 within the second DRC rule set is selected over a via size constraint value of 2 within the first DRC rule set and a via size constraint value of 1.2 within the DRC rule set e.g. the via size constraint specifies a minimum size for a via such that a larger value is more restrictive . At the design rule constraint value is assigned to the design rule for inclusion within the common DRC rule set. In this way a design layout that satisfies the common DRC rule set will also satisfy the DRC rule sets. For example a design layout that can satisfy the via size constraint value of 3.2 specified within the common DRC rule set will satisfy the via size constraint of 2 within the first DRC rule set the via size constraint of 3.2 within the second DRC rule set and the via size constraint of 1.2 within the DRC rule set . It is appreciated that other constraints can be identified for inclusion within the common DRC rule set and that merely a few are illustrated for simplicity and thus the instant application is not to be limited by illustrated examples.

In some embodiments a universal design layout format is specified based upon the common DRC rule set. A design layout can be identified as being compliant with the universal design layout format based upon the design layout satisfying e.g. being compliant with the common DRC rule set. In an example one or more metal schemes are assigned to the design layout such as a first metal scheme being assigned to a first metal layer a second metal scheme being assigned to a second metal layer etc. The design layout can be verified as being compliant with a DRC rule set associated with a metal scheme assigned for the design layout.

In some embodiments the design layout can be transformed into a transformed design layout. That is responsive to the design layout being compliant with the universal design layout format where the design layout satisfied the common DRC rule set the design layout is transformed from the universal design layout format to a target metal scheme to create the transformed design layout. Because the design layout satisfied the common DRC rule set having relatively restrictive design rule constraints the design layout will satisfy a target DRC rule set of the target metal scheme. The transformed design layout can be simulated. For example RC extraction electro migration EM analysis voltage IR drop analysis or other simulations can be performed.

A method of generating a common dummy insertion utility for processing a design layout according to some embodiments is illustrated in . The common dummy insertion utility is used to insert one or more dummy polygons into a design layout. In an example the one or more dummy polygons are inserted to satisfy a metal density rule. At one or more DRC rule sets are evaluated to identify a dummy size constraint value for a dummy size constraint specifying a minimum dummy polygon size for a dummy polygon. The dummy size constraint value is identified based upon the dummy size constraint value corresponding to a dummy size restriction threshold. In some embodiments the dummy size restriction threshold specifies that a first dummy size constraint value is selected over a second dummy size constraint value based upon the first dummy size constraint value being relatively more restrictive. For example a dummy size constraint value of 1.5 of the DRC rule set is selected over the dummy size constraint 0.4 of the first DRC rule set and the dummy size constraint 0.7 of the second DRC rule set .

At one or more DRC rule sets are evaluated to identify a dummy spacing constraint value for a dummy spacing constraint specifying a minimum spacing around a dummy polygon. The dummy spacing constraint value is identified based upon the dummy spacing constraint value corresponding to a dummy spacing restriction threshold. In some embodiments the dummy spacing restriction threshold specifies that a first dummy spacing constraint value is selected over a second dummy spacing constraint value based upon the first dummy spacing constraint value being relatively more restrictive. For example the dummy spacing constraint of 1.2 within the second DRC rule set is selected over the dummy spacing constraint of 0.2 of the first DRC rule set and the dummy spacing constraint of 0.3 of the DRC rule set . In some embodiments one or more additional constraints are identified for inclusion within the common dummy insertion utility.

At the common dummy insertion utility is generated based upon one or more identified constrains such as the dummy size constraint having the dummy size constraint value and the dummy spacing constraint having the dummy spacing constraint value. It is appreciated that other constraints can be identified for inclusion within the dummy insertion utility and that merely a few are illustrated for simplicity and thus the instant application is not to be limited by illustrated examples. Because the common dummy insertion utility is generated based upon relatively more restrictive constraint values a design layout processed using the common dummy insertion utility will satisfy dummy placement constraints such as dummy size constraints dummy spacing constraints etc. of DRC rule sets for metal schemes.

In some embodiments the common dummy insertion utility is used to insert one or more dummy polygons into a design layout to generate a filled design layout. For example a first dummy polygon is inserted into the design layout such that the first dummy polygon satisfies the dummy size constraint and the dummy spacing constraint. In some embodiments the filled design layout is verified as compliant with the common DRC rule set. In some embodiments the filled design layout is verified as compliant with a DRC rule set associated with a metal scheme assigned for the design layout. In some embodiments the filled design layout is transformed from a universal design layout format to a target metal scheme to create a transformed design layout.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for generating a common design rule check DRC rule set for verification of a design layout is provided. The method comprises generating a common DRC rule set comprising a set of design rules derived from one or more DRC rule sets associated with metal schemes. For respective design rules within the set of design rules one or more DRC rule sets are evaluated to identify a design rule constraint value for a design rule based upon the design rule constraint value corresponding to a restriction threshold. The design rule constraint value is assigned to the design rule for inclusion within the common DRC rule set.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for generating a common dummy insertion utility for verification of a design layout is provided. The method comprises evaluating one or more DRC rule sets to identify a set of constraints. In one example a dummy size constraint value for a dummy size constraint is identified based upon the dummy size constraint value correspond to a dummy size restriction threshold. In another example a dummy spacing constraint value for a dummy spacing constraint is identified based upon the dummy spacing constraint value corresponding to a dummy spacing restriction threshold. The common dummy insertion utility is generated based upon the set of constraints such as the dummy size constraint having the dummy size constraint value the dummy spacing constraint having the dummy spacing constraint value and or other constraints.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for verifying a design layout is provided. The system comprises a DRC component configured to maintain a common DRC rule set derived from one or more DRC rule sets associated with metal schemes. The DRC component is configured to verify that a design layout is compliant with the common DRC rule set. The system comprises a common dummy insertion utility configured to maintain a set of constraints such as a dummy size constraint a dummy spacing constraint and or other constraints. The common dummy insertion utility is configured to fill the design layout with one or more dummy polygons based upon the set of constraints to create a filled design layout. The DRC component is configured to verify that the filled design layout is compliant with the common DRC rule set.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation 800 comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component includes a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component is localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising . Also unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

