---

title: Disk-based valve apparatus and method for the treatment of valve dysfunction
abstract: The present invention comprises a novel and safer mechanism of deployment using a self-positioning, self-centering, and self-anchoring method. To embody the present invention, a disk-based valve apparatus allowing the repositioning and retrieval of the implantable valve while working on a dysfunctional valve structure is disclosed. The disk-based valve apparatus may comprise one or more disks, either proximal or distal, a valve-housing component and a valve component. The one or more disks may be either proximal or distal, may be either connected to each other or disconnected from each other and may either be symmetrical or have different shapes and dimensions. The disk-based valve apparatus may be self anchoring, such as anchored by pressure from the one or more disk, or may be anchored using any anchoring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08728155&OS=08728155&RS=08728155
owner: Cephea Valve Technologies, Inc.
number: 08728155
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
This application is a continuation of PCT IB2012 000563 filed Mar. 21 2012 which application claims the benefit of priority of commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 454 703 filed Mar. 21 2011 and entitled Multiple Disk Self Positioning Apparatus and Method for the Treatment of Valve Dysfunction .

The present invention generally relates to valve implantation and more specifically to the percutaneous replacement of dysfunctional valves.

In addition to the initial commercially approved devices for transcatheter aortic valve implantation TAVI such as the Edwards Sapien THV balloon expandable bovine bioprosthesis Edwards Lifesciences INC Irvine Calif. USA and the Core Valve ReValving System Medtronic Inc. Minneapolis Minn. USA nitinol porcine self expanding bioprosthesis a number of newer devices have also recently been CE marked for use via the transapical route. These are the Symetis Acurate Symetis Lausanne Switzerland and the Jena Valve JenaValve Munich Germany that are described below in the text.

Several valves for TAVI are currently at an early stage of pre clinical or clinical evaluation. Referring to Table 1 in general new valves incorporate features aiming to reduce delivery catheter diameter facilitate accurate positioning reduce para valvular leaks or allow device retrieval. In the following paragraphs we will describe some of the publicly known programs.

The Direct Flow Medical Aortic Valve developed by Direct Flow Medical Inc. USA and shown by D in is a stent less non metallic expandable device that consists of bovine pericardial leaflets sewed to a Dacron fabric cuff with an inflatable ring on the aortic side and another on the ventricular side designed for trans femoral delivery. Once the valve is positioned the rings are inflated with saline and contrast until the position and function of the valve has been confirmed. The diluted contrast is then exchanged for an active polymeric medium that following polymerization hardens and forms the final support structure.

The Lotus Valve System developed by Boston Scientific Inc. USA as shown by is a bioprosthesis consisting of three bovine pericardial leaflets suspended in a self expanding and self centering braided nitinol stent frame. It has an active shortening locking mechanism and an external polyurethane sealing membrane to prevent para valvular leaks. In the delivery catheter the stent it is in its longitudinal form with low radial force and small profile. Once the valve has been positioned and the outer catheter is retracted the prosthesis expands radially gaining radial force and losing height effectively locking the valve in place. The valve is designed for trans femoral delivery.

The Heart Leaflet Technologies HLT valve developed by Heart Leaflet Technologies Inc. USA and as shown by A in is a porcine pericardial trileaflet valve mounted in a self inverting nitinol cuff with 3 nitinol support hoops and with an antireflux collar designed for trans femoral delivery.

The JenaClip developed by Jena Valve Technology GmbH Munich Germany and shown by C in is a bioprosthetic pericardial tissue valve mounted in a self expanding nitinol stent as known as the JenaClip that is built up of 2 layers of paper clip like structures 3 in each layer that are compressed in a dedicated delivery catheter. It has been designed anatomically to fit in the sinuses of Valsalva with a clip based anchoring system . It is designed for both trans femoral and trans apical delivery and recently had CE mark for the transapical route.

The Engager valve formerly developed by Ventor recently acquired by Medtronic Minneapolis Minn. and shown by H in is a self expandable pericardial tissue prosthesis with a composite nitinol proprietary frame. The outer frame has a crown shape with troughs that flare out to anchor the valve in the sinuses. An inner frame has an hourglass shape and is designed to minimize pressure loss at inlet and maximize pressure recovery at outlet and thereby optimizing fluid dynamics based on the Venturi effect . This device is specifically dedicated for trans apical delivery but more recently a trans femoral version has been developed.

The AorTx Device developed by Hansen Medical Inc. Mountain View Calif. and shown by F in is a suture less prosthesis that consists of a pericardial tissue valve attached to a self expanding solid nitinol frame. This frame is folded before deployment. It is repositionable and retrievable. This valve has been designed for both trans apical and femoral approach through an 18F delivery system. The ATS 3f Series developed by ATS Medical Minneapolis Minn. and shown by E in is a self expandable bioprosthesis mounted in a tubular nitinol frame designed for surgical ATS 3f Enable and percutaneous ATS 3f Entrata deployments. Six sizes are available from 19 to 29 mm. The Perceval Percutaneous developed by the Sorin Group Milan Italy and shown by G in is a self expandable bovine pericardial valve with a nitinol panel frame matching the anatomy of the aortic root and sinuses of Valsalva. It has a double sheath that provides enhanced sealing and non expandable support rods.

The Bailey Palmaz Perc Valve developed by Advanced Bio Prosthesis Surfaces Ltd. San Antonio Tex. not shown is a completely mechanical valve consisting of a monolithic structure of nanosythesized nitinol in a self expanding cage and nitinol leaflets that also has a nitinol membrane at the base of the valve to reduce paravalvular regurgitation. This new nanosynthetic material has improved stress and fracture resistance and has allowed for a device with a smaller profile which can be delivered through a 1 OF sheath. It is designed to be repositionable and retrievable and to be delivered by retrograde antegrade or transapical approach.

The Paniagua Heart Valve developed by Endoluminal Technology Research Miami Fla. and shown by H in is a biologic valve having a collapsed profile of 2 mm that must be manually crimped on to a delivery balloon but that also exists as a self expanding model. It can be inserted through a 10F to 18F sheath depending on the mounting frame and the final valve diameter. This valve was designed to be used in any heart valve position.

Symetis Acurate valve Symetis Lausanne Switzerland is a self expanding nitinol stent has also recently been CE marked for use via the transapical route. The valve is porcine with the stent allowing anchorage via an upper and lower crown along with 3 stabilization arches in a subcoronary position believed to be the anatomically correct position. It is available in 3 sizes 23 mm 25 mm and 27 mm with the ability to be planted sheathless 28 Fr equivalent . The transfemoral version is currently undergoing pre clinical studies.

Although these valves may incorporate desirable features little information is currently available on their efficacy procedural outcomes and durability.

Recently new techniques have been developed to treat mitral regurgitation MW with percutaneous approach in order to restore valve function without surgical incision and cardio pulmonary by pass.

Recently a new classification of percutaneous MVR technologies on the basis of functional anatomy grouping the devices into those targeting the leaflets percutaneous leaflet plication percutaneous leaflet coaptation percutaneous leaflet ablation the annulus indirect coronary sinus approach or an asymmetrical approach direct true percutaneous or a hybrid approach the chordae percutaneous chordal implantation or the LV percutaneous LV remodeling has been proposed as shown in Table 2.

This technology is based on the surgical Alfieri technique which brings the anterior and posterior leaflets together with a suture creating a double orifice MV. This re establishes leaflet coaptation thereby reducing MR.

As example the MitraClip system developed by Abbott Vascular Santa Clara Calif. uses a steerable catheter to deliver a clip to the anterior leaflet and posterior leaflet via trans septal access. The EVEREST I developed by Endovascular Valve Edge to Edge REpair Study which was a safety and feasibility study assessing this device has been recently published. Data from the EVEREST II study randomizing Mitra Clip versus surgical repair were recently presented. The device is currently CE marked and used in clinical practice in Europe.

Also the MitraFlex developed by TransCardiac Therapeutics Atlanta Ga. which deploys a clip to the leaflets via the transapical route is undergoing pre clinical testing this device also allows an artificial chord to be implanted during the same procedure .

Radiofrequency energy is delivered to the leaflet s to effect structural fibrosis or functional reduced motion alteration.

As example the Thermocool irrigation ablation electrode developed by BiosenseWebster Inc. Diamond Bar Calif. is a radiofrequency ablation catheter delivered through femoral approach retrogradely into the LV. The catheter is placed in contact with the anterior leaflet and radiofrequency is delivered causing scarring and fibrosis and reduced leaflet motion. Proof of concept was demonstrated in an animal study.

The device acting is positioned across the MV orifice to provide a surface against which the leaflets can coapt reducing MR.

As example the Percu Pro device developed by Cardiosolutions Stoughton Mass. consists of a polyurethane silicone polymer space occupying buoy that is anchored at the apex through the MV acting as a spacer in the mitral orifice. A trans septal approach is required to implant the anchor in the apex. A phase 1 trial is ongoing.

This approach mimics surgical annuloplasty rings which are commonly used for repair of both degenerative and functional MR.

Coronary Sinus CS Approach This approach involves implantation of devices within the CS with the aim of pushing the posterior annulus anteriorly thereby reducing the septal lateral anterior posterior dimension of the MA.

As example the Monarc previously Viking system developed by Edwards Lifesciences consists of an outer guide catheter a smaller delivery catheter and a nitinol implant. The implant has 3 sections distal and proximal self expanding anchors and a springlike CS and distal great cardiac vein closer indirectly displacing the posterior annulus anteriorly. The phase 1 trial Evolution has been completed. Evolution II study is ongoing.

As another example the Carillon Mitral Contour System developed by Cardiac Dimension Inc. Kirkland Wash. consists of self expandable nitinol distal and proximal anchors connected by a nitinol bridge that are placed in the great cardiac vein and proximal CS via a catheter based system. Tension applied on the system results in cinching of the posterior periannular tissue and deflection of the posterior MA anteriorly. A feasibility study showed modestly reduced septal lateral dimension and MR. The AMADEUS trial CARILLON Mitral Annuloplasty Device European Union Study using the modified CARILLON XE device Cardiac Dimension Inc. has been conducted.

As a further example the Viacor percutaneous transvenous mitral annuloplasty device developed by Viacor Inc. Wilmington Mass. uses nitinol rods of varying length and stiffness delivered via a catheter to the CS.

Asymmetrical Approach This group of devices uses the proximity of the CS to the annulus to try to reshape the mitral annulus MA but in addition exert traction force on another portion of the left atrium LA or right atrium resulting in asymmetrical forces. The aim is to reduce septal lateral dimension and decrease MR.

As an example St. Jude Medical based in Minneapolis Minn. implanted in animal models comprising 4 helical anchors 2 loading spacers a tether rope and a locking mechanism. The distal pair of anchors is delivered via the CS into the LV myocardium near the posterior leaflet scallop. The proximal pair is implanted via the right atrium into the postero medial trigone. The 2 pairs of anchors are connected by a cable to effect cinching of the postero medial MA. Dynamic shortening can be performed manually and reversibly and the docking mechanism is a self retracting nitinol structure that maintains cinched load.

Also the National Institutes of Health cerclage technology directs a guidewire via the CS into the first septal perforator of the great cardiac vein and under imaging across the myocardium to re enter a right heart chamber. It is ensnared and exchanged for a suture and tension fixation device.

Percutaneous Mechanical Cinching Approach This technology reshapes the MA directly without using the CS approaching the MA from the LV or the LA side. Sutures or some other device are implanted onto the MA itself and used to directly cinch the MA. Devices.

As an example the Mitralign device developed by Mitralign Tewksbury Mass. gains access to the annulus from the transventricular approach. Anchors are placed directly on the posterior MA and connected with a suture creating a purse string to cinch the MA.

As another example the Accucinch Annuloplasty System developed by Guided Delivery Systems Santa Clara Calif. uses a transventricular approach. The posterior annulus is cinched circumferentially from trigone to trigone

As a further example the Millipede system developed by Millipede LLC Ann Arbor Mich. involves placement of a novel repositionable and retrievable annular ring with a unique attachment system via percutaneous transseptal or minimally invasive methods.

Percutaneous Energy Mediated Cinching Approach Heat energy is applied to the MA causing scarring and shrinkage of the MA.

As an example QuantumCor developed by QuantumCor Lake Forest Calif. effects direct annuloplasty by use of radiofrequency energy to cause scarring and constriction of the MA. It has a loop tip that contains electrodes and thermocouples to regulate the amount of energy delivered.

Also ReCor device developed by ReCor Paris France delivers high intensity focused ultrasound circumferentially and perpendicularly to the catheter shaft to induce tissue heating and collagen and thus MA shrinkage.

Hybrid Approach An annuloplasty ring is implanted surgically and can be subsequently adjusted via transseptal access if MR recurs or worsens.

As an example the Adjustable Annuloplasty Ring developed by MitralSolutions Fort Lauderdale Fla. is implanted surgically and can be adjusted with a mechanical rotatin cable 

Also Dynamic annuloplasty Ring System developed by MiCardia Inc. Irving Calif. is adjusted with radiofrequency energy.

Synthetic chords or sutures are implanted either from a transapical or transseptal approach and anchored onto the LV myocardium at one end with the leaflet at the other. The length of the chord is then adjusted to achieve optimal leaflet coaptation as exemplified by the following devices the MitraFlex developed by TransCardiac Therapeutics and the NeoChord developed by Neochord Inc. Minnetonka Minn.

The MitraFlex and Neochord devices place an anchor in the inner LV myocardium and another on the leaflet via a transapical approach and connect both with a synthetic chord trough trans apical approach.

Babic is based on continuous suture tracks created from the LV puncture through the puncture of the target leaflet and are exteriorized via the trans septal route. A pledget is apposed onto the exteriorized venous sutures and anchored onto the atrial side of the leaflet by retracting the guiding sutures from the epicardial end. A polymer tube is then interposed between the leaflet and free myocardial wall and secured at the epicardial surface by an adjustable knob.

A device is used to reduce the anterior posterior dimension of the LV. This indirectly decreases the septallateral annular distance and also brings the LV papillary muscles closer to the leaflets.

The Mardil BACE developed by Mardil Inc. Morrisville N.C. is a silicone band that is placed around the atrioventricular groove with built in inflatable chambre placed on the MA. This reshapes the MA for better leaflet coaptation and can be remotely adjusted after implantation. It requires a mini thoracotomy but is implanted on a beating heart. FIM is ongoing.

At present time different devices such as CardiaAQ Endovalve Lutter Tiara for transcatheter mitral valve replacement therapy using antegrade transvenous trans septal catheter based approach are under development. To our knowledge they are all in the early stages of design and development and have not been approved for clinical use and in some of them animal studies are ongoing. The challenges are formidable the MA has an asymmetrical saddle shape and different anchoring designs might be necessary for different MR etiologies. LV out flow obstruction might occur due to retained native valve tissue. Furthermore paravalvular leaks might also pose a problem.

In all these devices different concepts of anchoring system have been developed to achieve a stabilization of the valve anchoring below the annulus through hooks CardiaAQ subvalvular fixation toward mitral chord or with anchoring in the annulus with movable leaflets Endovalve in a nitinol self expanding tubular frame.

As an example the CardiAQ developed by CardiAQ Valve Technologies Inc. Winchester Mass. prosthesis Figure B is delivered transseptally and locks into the inferior and superior surfaces of the mitral annulus. Animal models have been successful.

Also the Endovalve Herrmann prosthesis developed by Endovalve Inc. Princeton N.J. is implanted from the LA side via a right mini thoracotomy on a beating heart as shown in The device is a foldable nitinol structure that attaches to the native valve with specially designed grippers is fully valve sparing and repositionable before release. Animal models have been successful and a true percutaneous version is planned.

The Lutter prosthesis a nitinol stent valve implanted transapically. It comprised of a left ventricular tubular stent with star shaped left atrial anchoring springs and a trileaflet bovine pericardial valve.

The Tiara Neovasc Richmond BC Canada prosthesis is a nitinol stent valve implantable transapically. Animal models have been successful and a true percutaneous version is planned.

As described above the mitral valve apparatus has multiple components and displays a complex anatomical shape and structure thus limiting the number of any prevailing mitral valve repair solutions. The mitral valve technologies currently under development are actually composed of rigid valve structures which usually distort the mitral valve plane and apparatus with unknown clinical results. Thus there is a need for improved designs which are conforming better to the mitral valve geometry as to keep a physiologic mitral inflow plane following valve apparatus implantation.

In regards to the percutaneous valves under development several issues need to be considered. Balloon expandable structures depend on permanent plastic deformation induced by device expansion to a specific diameter and length. Although commonly used for treating calcified aortic stenosis these structures are not proper fit for non symmetrical shapes such as the mitral valve. Often resulting in para valvular leaks following device implantation symmetrical balloon geometries are not ideal. Although self expanding structures are an improvement over balloon expandable ones a one piece structure in a symmetrical upper and lower part of mitral valve apparatus is not ideal either. Different radial pressures might be needed against surrounding tissue potentially causing deleterious effects such as conduction system disturbances or tissue disruption. The self positioning singular or multi disk concept may improve upon the aforementioned limitations by securing the leaflet in between disks of different radial force aligning a prosthetic valve to blood inflow angle and avoiding dislodgment through anchoring at the base of the mitral valve apparatus.

One of the objects of the present invention is to allow the implant of a valve concept in the region of a dysfunctional valve structure. A further object of the present invention relates to the treatment of valve insufficiency. Furthermore it is also an object of the present invention to use the valve apparatus to replace or treat a stenosed valve.

Other and further objects and advantages of the present invention will be obvious upon an understanding of the illustrative embodiments about to be described or will be indicated in the appended claims and various advantages not referred to herein will occur to one skilled in the art upon employment of the invention in practice.

The aforesaid and other objectives of the present invention are realized by generally providing at least one disk with self positioning self centering and self anchoring valve apparatus. In embodiments having a plurality of disks the apparatus may be built as an assembly of independent self positioning self centering and self anchoring components assembled into a single valve apparatus assembly.

The disk based valve apparatus comprises multiple components of different shapes and configurations acting as separate and independent anchoring system and allowing self positioning and centering of a valve housing component as a generally median or central waist containing the valve component.

The disk based valve apparatus comprises one or more disks a valve housing component and a valve component. The one or more disks may comprise one or more notch or gap. The one or more disks may be either proximal or distal may be either connected to each other or disconnected from each other and may either be symmetrical or have different shapes and dimensions. The disk based valve apparatus may be self anchoring such as anchored by pressure from the one or more disk or may be anchored using any anchoring mechanism such as but not limited to needles hooks prongs struts helical configurations or any other fixation mechanisms.

The disk based valve apparatus comprising one or more disks allows the repositioning and retrieval of the implantable valve while working on a dysfunctional valve structure.

The present invention comprises a novel and safer mechanism of deployment using a self positioning self centering and self anchoring method. The valve apparatus comprising one or more disks dependently or independently interacting with each other is maintained in place by the anchoring of the proximal and or distal disks. Such mechanism allows the self positioning self centering ad self anchoring of the valve thus maintaining the overall inflow plane of native valvular apparatus.

Furthermore the valve apparatus comprises a double structure having a valve housing component. The valve housing component allows the device to be uniquely shaped and to distinguish from all other disk based valve apparatus. Additionally the particular shape and configuration of the distal disk ease the distal anchoring of the device. On the other end the proximal disk facilitates the centering and stability of the valve apparatus.

The features of the present invention which are believed to be novel are set forth with particularity in the appended claims.

A novel self expanding self positioning and self anchoring valve apparatus and method for the treatment of valve dysfunction will be described hereinafter. Although the invention is described in terms of specific illustrative embodiment s it is to be understood that the embodiment s described herein are by way of example only and that the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited thereby.

Referring to A and the apparatus comprises a self expanding self positioning and self centering valve apparatus comprising at least one disk a valve housing component referred to as central waist an anchoring mechanism and a valve component . In some embodiment a cuff material is inserted within the frame to direct the blood flow through the valve and not around it. Generally the valve apparatus may be made from a self expanding material such as but not limited to Nitinol. The valve housing component comprises one or more self positioning components such as different materials and different configurations to form the valve housing where the valve is located.

Still referring to A and the anchoring mechanisms with its proximal and distal components are made from materials allowing minimal deformation during heartbeat movement. Such material could be metallic or polymeric and not limited to stainless steel nitinol PEEK etc. In a preferred embodiment the disk material should be superelastic allowing a collapsed form for delivering the device and resuming its memorized configuration upon deployment at the implantation site. Materials having intrinsic memory such as Nitinol are preferable. However any other metals and materials such as memory shape polymers could also be used to manufacture or make the anchoring system . The valve component is attached to the inner part of the valve housing component .

It should be noted that the disk based self expanding self positioning and self anchoring valve apparatus such as anchored by a cinching pressure force due proximal and distal disks shortening toward each other or may be anchored using any anchoring mechanism such as but not limited to needles hooks prongs struts helical configurations or any other fixation mechanisms.

It should be noted that within the description of the present invention the proximal term refers to the ventricular portion while the distal term refers to the atrial portion of the valve apparatus . However if valve apparatus is described or installed from the atrial to the ventricular portion the proximal term shall refer to the atrial portion and the distal term shall refer to the ventricular portion.

Typically the anchoring system comprises an atrial anchor and a ventricular anchor . The ventricular anchor may comprise at least one notch or gap to clear the aortic outflow track and the sub valvular apparatus for instance.

Now referring to the disk based valve apparatus may be configured to adapt to a patient specific anatomical needs. Although depicted longer for representation purpose in the valve housing component is designed to exert a radial force against the mitral valve and sub valvular apparatus while the upper and lower disks are compressing the native mitral valve. These compression forces allow self anchoring and natural positioning of the valve concept in place.

Typically the frame of the apparatus comprises a single valve component housing being covered or uncovered unit or being a unitary component comprising an aperture having a predetermined dimension and generally located within the central portion valve housing . The frame may also comprise one or more independent units such as the disks shown in forming a continuous structure. In embodiments having a frame comprising a single unit such as the embodiment shown in all the components must be attached to allow longitudinal and axial compression of the apparatus .

In another embodiment the apparatus may comprise an inner aperture such as a tubular aperture as shown in . In such an embodiment the self centering units are depicted in a C shape form allowing them to act as clips onto the mitral valve apparatus. The upper member exerts a downwards self anchoring force while the lower member exerts an upwards self anchoring force.

Now referring to the distal disk comprises an outer portion configured to allow deformation following contact with the dysfunctional valve or sub valvular apparatus. The configuration of the distal disk may vary according to the patient s anatomy. Typically the valve component housing comprises a tunnel like structure allowing a proper positioning of the replacement valve. The valve component housing comprises a tightly woven frame in order to provide proper radial strength and longitudinal stability to the valve apparatus .

Referring to in another embodiment the valve component housing may be configured as an independent unit of the valve apparatus thus allowing a plurality of mechanisms of expansion such as balloon based self based or injectable polymer within the structure to create as expansion mechanism to be attached to the valve apparatus . Such expansion mechanism may reduce or decrease the risk of device embolization peri valvular leak and facilitate the use of the valve apparatus in the event of stenotic valvular lesions. Typically the height of the valve component housing may range from 0.5 cm to 2.5 cm. The longitudinal diameter of the valve component housing may range from 1.5 to 6.0 cm.

Now referring to B and the proximal disk and distal disk may have different shapes and configurations such as but not limited to rounded oval multi lobar or any shape covering the perimeter of the dysfunctional valve. Typically the proximal disk structure generally faces the proximal inlet valvular plan and the distal disk is located within the distal outlet plane of the dysfunctional valve.

The weave of the disks is generally more open or wider than the weave of the valve component housing . The disks have the aim to orient the anchoring system and to keep the valve component housing in its position. In other embodiments the disks maybe shaped differently. A concave disk shape may be desirable in order to allow at least one portion of a disk to stay in contact with the dysfunctional valve. Additionally other anchoring mechanisms such as but not limited to needles hooks prongs struts helical configurations or any other fixation mechanisms may be used on a disk or on the distal or proximal portion of the valve apparatus . It shall be noted that the proximal disk may configured to have a different dimension than the distal disk .

Typically the diameter of the proximal disk ranges from 2.5 to 7.5 cm. In a preferred embodiment the height of a disk either distal or proximal shall be less than 0.5 cm.

Following the installation of the apparatus the distal disk is compressed by a cords and sub valvular apparatus. At this point the distal portion of the disk remains convexly shaped and is located above the papillary muscles.

To correctly configure the distal disk to the specific patient s anatomy additional features may be required such as hooks or anchors. In order to protect the sub valvular apparatus and to provide enhanced valve anchoring capabilities the distal disk must be configured differently in regard to the proximal disk . More particularly and as shown on A and B a distal disk smaller than the proximal disk may have a specific configuration such as a cross or star like configuration. Additionally potential radio opaque markers may be installed in order to allow the anchoring of the distal disk underneath the sub valvular apparatus.

Typically the diameter of the distal disk ranges from 2.5 to 7.5 cm. However the height of the distal disk should vary according to the dimension and shape of the sub valvular anatomy. When implanted the distal disk may comprise one or more additional sub valvular anchoring structure such structure allowing better apposition and fixation to the dysfunctional valve.

The valve apparatus may be completely or partially covered or laminated using different and or independent material. Such covering may be installed or placed outside or inside of the structural cage of the valve apparatus . The material use to cover or laminate the frame may be interwoven with the frame.

Any type of valve component such as biological valve or synthetic valve may be used as a valve component of the valve apparatus . A biological valve graft or synthetic valve may be sutured to the valve component housing of the anchoring mechanism . It should be appreciated by the one skilled in the art that any other mean of attachment of the valve component to the valve component housing may be used. Typically the valve component is made of biological material or of synthetic tissues. A valve component made from biological material may be homo or hetero graft.

The valve component may comprise two or more leaflets wherein such leaflets are self sealable due to the pressure gradient or difference between the atrium and the ventricle.

A delivery system comprises a loading system a catheter a short and a long pusher wire. The catheter may be steerable in order to properly orient the system through the valve during the release phase. The delivery system is loaded on the pusher wire with an attachment method such as a screw or a bayonet. Once loaded the delivery system is inserted and pushed to the tip of the catheter positioned in the ventricle. Following the insertion of the delivery system the distal portion of the system is released in the ventricle and the catheter is retrieved to the atrio ventricular plan. Consequently the valve component housing is released and followed by the proximal portion.

In a preferred embodiment such as shown in a valve apparatus comprising a single unit may be hollowed. The valve apparatus comprises a valve component in a generally central portion and two disks a proximal and a distal . The apparatus may comprise at least one separate anchoring mechanism as shown by the disks and but may be anchored using the pressure of the disks . Once the distal disk is distally inserted within the patient s dysfunctional valve the distal disk is released in a distal orientation in regard to the sub valvular apparatus. Upon deformation of the distal disk the entire valve apparatus is pulled back into the plane of the dysfunctional valve in order to position the valve component located in the valve component housing as shown in A and B. Once the first disk positioned the second disk is released in order to secure the apparatus in place. This configuration may be changed or adapted according to the route of insertion such as anterograde versus retrograde or percutaneous versus trans apical versus trans atrial.

In another embodiment the valve apparatus as a single unit comprises a valve component generally located in the valve component housing of the apparatus and two disks a proximal and a distal . The apparatus may comprise at least one separate anchoring mechanism as shown by the disks and but may be anchored using the pressure of the disks . When the insertion of the distal disk is completed within the patient s dysfunctional valve the distal disk is released in a distal orientation in regard to the sub valvular apparatus. The distal disk comprises at least one additional anchoring structures such as but not limited to needles hooks prongs struts helical configurations or any other fixation mechanisms. The at least one anchoring structure allows the sub valvular anchoring and positioning of the distal disk . Upon deformation of the distal disk . The valve apparatus is pulled back into the plane of the patient s dysfunctional valve in order to position the valve component located in the valve component housing of the apparatus . Once the distal disk positioned the second disk is released in order to secure the entire cage in place. The configuration of this embodiment may be changed or adapted according to the route of insertion such as anterograde versus retrograde or percutaneous versus trans apical versus trans atrial.

In a further second embodiment which is similar to the embodiment described above the valve apparatus comprises a single distal anchoring disk . When the insertion of the apparatus is completed within the patient s dysfunctional valve a distal disk is released. At this point the distal disk is partially deformed and the valve component housing is positioned at the level of the dysfunctional valve plane. Then the proximal segment of the apparatus is fully released to complete the positioning of the valve apparatus .

In a further third embodiment which is based on the further second embodiment the valve apparatus comprises a single distal anchoring disk and a smaller and shorter proximal disk . When the insertion of the valve apparatus is completed within the patient s dysfunctional valve the distal disk is released. At this point the distal disk is partially deformed and the valve component housing is positioned at the level of the dysfunctional valve plane. Then as the proximal segment of the valve apparatus is fully released the positioning of the valve apparatus is completed.

In a further fourth embodiment as shown in a valve apparatus comprises a plurality of independent units which may be hollowed a valve component generally located in the central portion and at least two separate anchoring systems or disks . When the insertion of the valve apparatus is completed the distal disks are released. Even if not required each distal disk may comprise one or more additional anchoring structures allowing the sub valvular to be anchored and positioned in regards to the distal disk . Upon deformation of the distal disk the apparatus is pulled back into the plane of the dysfunctional valve in order to position the valve component located in the valve component housing . The valve apparatus is positioned into an expandable structure such as a balloon. The expandable structure may be deployed following initial positioning of the valve apparatus . Once positioned a second disk is released in order to secure the entire apparatus in place. The configuration of this embodiment may be changed or adapted according to the route of insertion such as anterograde versus retrograde or percutaneous versus trans apical versus trans atrial.

In a further fifth embodiment as shown in a valve apparatus comprises a plurality of wires distributed in a way to form one or more disks either distal or proximal and a valve component generally located in the central portion . Each wire may comprise an anchoring mechanism such as a hook or needle. When the insertion of the valve apparatus is completed the distal disk is released. Upon deformation of the distal disk the apparatus is pulled back into the plane of the dysfunctional valve in order to position the valve component located in the valve component housing . Once positioned a second disk is released in order to secure the entire apparatus in place. The configuration of this embodiment may be changed or adapted according to the route of insertion such as anterograde versus retrograde or percutaneous versus trans apical versus trans atrial.

In a further sixth embodiment as depicted in a cage device comprises a single unit wherein such unit may be hollowed a valve component generally located in the apparatus central portion and at least two separate anchoring systems or disks . Additionally the distal anchoring system may comprise two or more disks referred as a multi lobar disk. In this embodiment the preferred shape or configuration of the distal disk is a cross like or star like structure. When the insertion of the entire device distally located in regard to the patient s dysfunctional valve is completed the distal multi lobar disk is distally released in regard to the sub valvular apparatus between the junction chordae tendinea papillary muscles in order to keep the subvalvular apparatus intact and to provide an optimal anchoring to the system. The distal disks may comprise at least one additional anchoring structure such as but not limited to needles hooks prongs struts helical configurations or any other fixation mechanisms. The anchoring structure allows the sub valvular anchoring and positioning of the distal disks . The addition of markers may be required to orient the apparatus during the deployment of the apparatus . Upon deformation of the distal disks the entire cage structure is pulled back into the plane of the dysfunctional valve in order to position the new valve located in the valve component housing . Once positioned the proximal disk is released in order to secure the entire cage in place. The configuration of this embodiment may be changed or adapted according to the route of insertion such as anterograde versus retrograde or percutaneous versus trans apical versus trans atrial.

While illustrative and presently preferred embodiment s of the invention have been described in detail hereinabove it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except insofar as limited by the prior art.

