---

title: Automatically configuring a web-enabled portable device to access the internet
abstract: Automatically configuring a portable electronic device for accessing a site on a public network is disclosed. The method and system include establishing a connection to at least one server for establishing and maintaining website accounts, and sending information uniquely identifying the electronic device to the at least one server. The at least one server sends user account information to the device, including an account ID and password, created based on the electronic device information. The user account information is stored on the device for use the next time the device accesses the website, whereby the user does not have to enter account information in order to establish the ISP connection or the website account before accessing the public network or, if the user account is not completely set up, to establish the user account a next time the device connects to the at least one server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276968&OS=09276968&RS=09276968
owner: CHEMTRON RESEARCH LLC
number: 09276968
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130911
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 183 566 filed Jul. 15 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 572 663 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 212 113 filed Sep. 17 2008 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 009 194 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 658 999 filed Sep. 9 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 443 419 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 625 824 filed Jul. 26 2000 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 259 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. The present invention is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 625 398 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 224 776 entitled Method and System For Hosting Entity Specific Photo Sharing Websites For Entity Specific Digital Cameras and to U.S. Pat. No. 7 117 519 entitled Method And System For Selecting Actions To Be Taken By A Server When Uploading Images which are assigned to the assignee of the present application.

As the popularity of digital cameras grows the desire of digital camera users to share their images with others will also continue to grow. New digital camera owners typically try to share their images based on the paradigm of film cameras in which images are printed on paper and then placed into a photo album. The most straightforward approach to do this with a digital camera is to connect the digital camera directly to a printer to create the prints and then manually insert the images into a photo album. Users often find this process somewhat complicated restrictive because standard printers can only print images in limited sizes and requires particular types of paper. And even after the photo album has been assembled the printed images are not easily shared with many people.

The best approaches to photo sharing take advantage of the Internet. One such approach is for users to store the digital images on a personal computer PC and then send the images to others using email. Several Internet companies now offer an even more convenient approach by providing photo sharing websites that allow users to store their images for free and to arrange the images into web based photo albums. Once posted on a photo sharing website others may view the images over the Internet.

While convenient for storing digital images getting the images to the photo sharing websites can be challenging for users. Most commonly users must upload their images from the digital camera to a PC using a cable or Infrared Data Association IrDA or by inserting the camera s flash card into the PC. From the PC the user logs onto the Internet and uploads the images to a photo sharing website. After uploading the images the user works on the website to arrange the images into web albums and to add any textual information.

Although today s approach for storing images from a digital camera onto a web photo sharing website and for creating web photo albums works reasonably well two problems remain that hinder the mainstream adoption of web based photo sharing. One problem is that this approach requires the use of a PC notebook computer or personal data assistant PDA . While many digital camera users today have PC s most of those users are early adopters of technology. There are many other consumers who would purchase a digital camera but are reluctant to do so because they do not yet own a PC or are intimidated by them.

In an effort to address this problem the assignee of the present application developed an approach to uploading images to the web that doesn t require the use of a PC. In this approach an email software application is loaded into a digital camera capable of running software that allows the user to e mail the images directly from the camera. The user simply connects his or her digital camera to a cellphone or modem runs the e mail application and selects the desired images and the email recipients. The selected images are then sent to the recipients as e mail attachments.

Although emailing photos directly from the camera allows users who do not own a PC to share images over the Internet these users must still establish accounts with both an Internet service provider ISP and the photo sharing website before being able to post their images. These accounts must also be set up by PC users as well. For techno savvy users who use a PC to upload the images to the photo sharing website establishing the accounts may not be a bother but even these users may not always have their PCs handy such as when on vacation for instance. And for non PC users establishing the accounts by entering account information on the digital camera itself may prove to be a cumbersome if not a daunting task.

Accordingly what is needed is an improved method for uploading images from a digital camera to a photo sharing website on the Internet. In order for online photo sharing to become more mainstream an approach that doesn t require a PC or PC expertise and that reduces complexity for the user is required. The present invention addresses such a need.

The present invention provides a method and system for automatically configuring a hand held portable electronic device for accessing a site on a public network is disclosed. The method and system include establishing a connection to at least one website server which is responsible for establishing and maintaining website accounts and sending information uniquely identifying the electronic device to the at least one website server. The electronic device receives user account information from the at least one server including an account ID and password created based on the electronic device information. The user account information is then stored on electronic device for use the next time the electronic device accesses the website whereby the user does not have to enter account information in order to establish the ISP connection or the website account before accessing the public network or if the user account is not completely set up to establish the user account a next time the portable device connects to the at least one server.

According to the method and system disclosed herein a user does not have to enter account information in order to establish the ISP connection or the website account before accessing the public network with the electronic device.

The present invention relates to an automatic system for uploading images from a digital camera to entity specific photo sharing websites and for automatically establishing accounts. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles herein may be applied to other embodiments. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

As used herein a camera controlling entity is any entity that makes owns sells or controls digital cameras and therefore includes camera manufactures companies retailers and end users. One or more combination of these entities may either contract with the photo sharing service to provide entity specific websites for their cameras or have entity information transmitted to the photo sharing service from the cameras . Therefore a camera controlling entity may include a single entity or a hierarchal relationship of entities .

An example of a single entity includes an insurance company that contracts with the photo sharing service to have all digital cameras used by their agents to transmit their images to a customized insurance photo sharing website. Examples of a hierarchal relationships of entities includes a camera manufacturer such as Nikon that contracts with the photo sharing service to have all Nikon digital cameras transmit their images to the customized Nikon photo sharing website. Since the images of different users must be distinguished each user of a Nikon camera would also constitute an entity within the Nikon website so that the images from different users can be distinguished. Other examples of hierarchal entity relationships include a retailer and its consumers a real estate agency and its agents community groups and its members and government agencies and its employees for instance.

In a preferred embodiment the cameras are customized for their respective entities by providing the cameras with software for transmitting entity ID information identifying its controlling entity to the photo sharing service . The photo sharing service in conjunction with the gateway server and the entity account database hosts the entity specific photo sharing websites . Each entity specific website is identified in the database by an entity account number and includes the web pages and URLs comprising the website the images and web albums stored on the website and the user account numbers of authorized users. The database also includes user accounts each of which comprises a user account number user preferences the user s images and action lists explained further below.

The gateway server which communicates with the cameras during image uploading receives one or more entity IDs from each camera and matches the entity ID with an entity account in the database . The images are then automatically associated with the photo sharing website of the identified entity and or the identified user.

After the images are uploaded a user of the camera may visit the online photo sharing website over the Internet to view the images via a web browser . Since the photo sharing websites are transparently hosted by the photo sharing service each photo sharing website appears as though it is hosted by the entity itself rather than the third party service.

In one embodiment the cameras may connect to the Internet via a service provider which may include a wireless carrier and or an Internet service provider ISP that is capable of servicing many devices simultaneously. In a preferred embodiment each of the cameras is provided with wireless connectivity for connecting to the Internet and is therefore so called web enabled devices although a wired connection method may also be used.

The cameras may be provided with wireless connectivity using anyone of a variety of methods. For example a cellphone may be used to provide the digital camera with wireless capability where the camera is connected to the cellphone via a cable or some short range wireless communication such as Bluetooth. Alternatively the camera could be provided with built in cellphone like wireless communication. In an alternative embodiment the digital camera is not wireless but instead uses a modem for Internet connectivity. The modem could be external or internal. If external the camera could be coupled to modem via any of several communications means e.g. USB IEEE1394 infrared link etc. . An internal modem could be implemented directly within the electronics of camera e.g. via a modem ASIC or alternatively as a software only modem executing on a processor within camera. As such it should be appreciated that at the hardware connectivity level the Internet connection can take several forms. Hence it should be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to any particular method of accessing the Internet.

In a preferred embodiment the entity specific websites are customized to seamlessly integrate into the entity s existing website by following the look and feel of the entity s existing website. The entity specific websites are hosted on the photo sharing service but a link to the entity specific websites may be provided on the homepage of the corresponding entity s existing website. Thus in order to view a web album on an entity specific website the user must visit the entity s existing website and click the link to the entity specific website where the user s browser will be transparently directed to the photo sharing service and be provided with the web pages of the entity specific website .

As an example of the operation of the photo sharing system consider the following scenario. Assume that Minolta and Nikon are entities that have contracted with the photo sharing service and that the photo sharing service hosts a photo sharing website for Minolta and a photo sharing website for Nikon. The Minolta cameras would be provided the entity ID for Minolta and the Nikon cameras would be provided the entity ID for Nikon. When the Minolta and the Nikon cameras send sets of images to the photo sharing service the gateway server would distinguish the cameras by the entity IDs and would direct the set of images received from Minolta cameras to Minolta s photo sharing website and would direct the images from Nikon cameras to Nikon s photo sharing website. To view the images the owners of the cameras would use a browser on their PC or PDA to visit the URL of the Minolta or Nikon photo sharing websites . In one preferred embodiment the photo sharing service sends the URL of the entity specific website directly to the camera for display to inform the user of the address.

According to the present invention the photo sharing service provides business to business and business to consumer business models. The service is business to business because the service provides companies such as camera manufactures with a complete end to end solution for their cameras . The solution includes customized software for their cameras for sending images over the internet and an internet website for storing images from those cameras on a branded website that appears to be hosted by the company. The service is business to consumer because it allows users of digital cameras with an automatic solution for uploading captured images from a digital camera to an online photo sharing website without a PC.

According to one preferred embodiment of the present invention the photo sharing service provides a method of doing business whereby the photo sharing service shares revenue based on the hierarchal relationship of the entities . For example if the photo sharing service charges a fee for receiving and or storing the images received from the entity specific cameras then the photo sharing service may share a portion of the fee with the manufacturer and or third party supplier of the camera that uploaded the images for instance. Revenue may also be shared with the wireless service provider providing the connection with the photo sharing service .

Referring now to a diagram showing the preferred embodiment of the connectivity and application software of the camera and the entity ID information is shown. Preferably the camera includes a microprocessor based architecture that runs an operating system for controlling camera hardware and overall functionality of the camera e.g. taking pictures storing pictures and the like . An example of such an operating system is the Digita Operating Environment developed by the assignee of the present application. The camera also includes communication manager software and a TCP IP protocol stack that enables communication via the internet as is well known in the art. The entity ID information and captured images may be stored in one or more types of memories .

For hierarchal entity relationships the cameras are provided with hierarchal entity IDs one entity ID identifying the entity and a second entity ID identifying the end user. Whether there are one or more entity IDs the entity ID of the camera manufacturer may always be provided. Camera customization may occur either during manufacture or anytime thereafter. In a preferred embodiment the manufacturer entity ID is provided at the time of manufacturing and is stored in an EEPROM while the entity IDs for other entities such as companies and end users are loaded into the camera subsequent to manufacturing and are stored in flash memory or the EEPROM

Customization that occurs subsequent to manufacture may be implemented using several methods. The first method is to manufacture the cameras with an application programming interface not shown for accepting a subsequently loaded software application that specifies the entity IDs . The application may come preloaded on a flash card which is then inserted into the camera by the user and stored in flash memory . The application may also be wirelessly beamed into the camera. When executed in the camera the software application transmits the appropriate entity IDs to the gateway server .

The second method is to load a small file in the camera specifying the entity IDs from a removable memory or from a PC and storing the file in a system folder within the camera s flash memory . The camera then accesses the file when an Internet connection is established. In a preferred embodiment the communication manager automatically extracts the manufacturing ID and the entity ID and transmits them to the gateway server . In this embodiment the entity ID is also stored in the EEPROM and is factory set to zero empty . Thus unless the entity ID is set the manufacturing ID may default as the highest controlling entity.

If for example a third party developer X contracts to provide custom camera software for camera manufacturer Z then a custom entity ID will be issued for developer X and developer X will place the custom entity ID into the EEPROM . Developer X is now a controlling entity and may specify to the photo sharing service that a developer X entity specific photo sharing site or developer X s own website be the destination for the uploaded images.

The protocol stack under direction of the communications manager interfaces with the communications hardware of camera. The protocol stack includes software APIs and protocol libraries that interface with the communication manager and communication hardware interface drivers that interfaces directly with the various communications hardware the camera must function with e.g. a Bluetooth transceiver etc. . The communication manager communicates with operating system and the IP protocol stack to establish an Internet connection and to transmit the entity ID information and images from the memories and to the photo sharing service .

In an alternative embodiment rather than loading entity IDs into the camera a combination of the camera s serial number and the make and model number of the camera may be used as the entity ID . Entity specific cameras may then be distinguished by providing a mapping of the camera serial numbers and product IDs to specific entities in the database .

Although the camera has been described in terms of a software based customization solution those with ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the camera may also be provided with a hardware based solution.

Referring again to before or after camera customization the entity specific websites are created for each entity contracting with the photo sharing service in step . Customization requires storage of entity information in the entity account database and creating and storing web page elements comprising the entity specific photo sharing website in the database . The entity specific information stored in the database may also include service levels and enabled features for the entity specific website . Features are components or services that may be provided on websites by the photo sharing service such as search functions and online printing for instance but may be selectable by each entity for its own website. As an example company X may provide customized cameras for its employees but may not wish to allow employees to print images from the company X photo website for security reasons. If so desired company X may have the photo service disable this feature from their particular website.

In a preferred embodiment the entity specific websites are not created from scratch but are created by modifying a preexisting template. The template may include several different sections such as A B C and D for instance. Assuming for example that the template used to create a website for Nikon and section A is used to specify the name of the entity then the name Nikon would be inserted into that section. Other entity specific content would be used to fill out the remaining sections. The Web pages comprising the Nikon specific photo sharing website would then be provided with URLs unique to that website. The entity s regular website would be modified to include a link to the entity s photo sharing website . In addition the entity specific photo sharing website would include a link back to the entity s website. Entities may have entity photo sharing web sites created for them in one of two ways automatically by logging into the photo sharing service and manually customizing the templates or by having the entity photo sharing website created for them.

Referring still to when a camera establishes an internet connection with the gateway server the camera transmits its entity IDs and or user entity ID when uploading user selected images to the gateway server in step . In response the gateway server matches the entity ID with an entity account in the database and matches the user entity ID with a user account in the database in step . The images received are then stored in the user account of the identified entity specific website in step .

Referring again to each user account in the database may also include one or more action lists . According to the present invention an action list includes one or more items representing actions that the gateway server should take with respect to uploaded images such as where to store and or send the images from a particular user or camera for instance. As explained further below the action list stored on the database under a user s account are automatically downloaded to the user s camera during a connection with the gateway server and stored on the camera . When the user initiates an image upload the action list is displayed to the user so the user may easily select what actions the gateway server should take with respect to the images by selecting the displayed action list items.

Examples of action list items include specifying that the uploaded images should be stored on the entity specific photo website sending the images to a list of email addresses or even performing some type of analysis or calculation on the image data for instance.

In a further aspect of the present invention an action list item is not limited to instructing the gateway server to perform actions only within the photo sharing service . Rather an item in the action list may also instruct the gateway server to perform actions outside of the photo sharing service such as storing the images in an external database of the entity . For instance in the example where the entity is a company some users of the company s cameras could have action lists instructing the gateway server to store uploaded images to the company s database rather than to the company s photo sharing site . Based on the action lists and customization the gateway server may be programmed to automatically perform predefined tasks such as creating new web albums or a new page within an existing album parse the images to extract sound files or other metadata print images and mail them to designated addresses and so on.

In a preferred embodiment the action lists may be created via several methods. In one method the action list is created by the photo sharing service the first time the user s camera establishes a connection. That is a default action list is automatically created based on the entity ID when a user account is first created. In a hierarchal entity relationship where the entity is a company a default action list may be created to implement a workflow specified by the entity . In a hierarchal relationship where the entity is camera manufacturer for instance a default action list may be created instructing the gateway sever to store the user s images in a simulated shoebox on the entity specific photo sharing site . The user may then go online and create albums from the images in the shoebox as desired.

Another method is for the user to create the action list online on the entity specific photo sharing site . The action list may be created manually on the website by the user navigating to the site using a web browser accessing her account and manually creating the action list or editing the action list on the entity specific site . The action list may also be created automatically on the website in response to user actions performed on the website such as printing images or creating a web album. Alternatively after performing an action the user may be prompted whether they would like this action added to his or her action list . If so the user clicks a check box and the item is added the action list . In a preferred embodiment any action list created and edited on the photo sharing site are downloaded to the camera every time the camera connects to the photo sharing service and made available for user selection on the camera during the next upload.

Yet another method for creating an action list is to allow the user to create the action list on the camera . The user may manually create an action list by typing in predefined items on the camera. The user may also type in an email address as an action list item whereby when that item is selected the uploaded images are stored as a web album on the entity specific photo sharing website and the server sends a notification to the specified recipient containing the URL to the web album page.

A method and system for hosting web based photo sharing websites and for customizing digital cameras to upload images to the entity specific photo sharing websites has been disclosed. According to the present invention users of the customized cameras can upload images to the Internet for storage and web photo album creation without the use of a PC.

In one embodiment described above the present invention assumes that an ISP account has been established with the digital camera s service provider and that users of cameras belonging to a certain entity may use the cameras to upload images to the website of the entity . However two problems with account setup remain. One problem is that just as with a PC and PDA the user must first establish an ISP account before the camera can establish Internet communication. The second account problem is that most websites including the photo sharing sites may require each user to establish a unique account before using the site to distinguish one user from another. Before being able to connect the web enabled camera to the Internet the user must establish these two accounts by either entering account setup information on a PC or entering account setup information on the camera . Neither alternative is a convenient alternative for people who do not have the time nor inclination to do so.

In a further aspect of the present invention the cameras and the photo sharing site are provided with software for automatically creating Internet and photo sharing website accounts for each camera upon first use without requiring the user to first enter account information on a PC or on the camera .

Referring now to a flow chart illustrating a process for automatically configuring a web enabled digital camera to access the Internet in a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Although the process will be described in terms of automatically establishing Internet accounts for a digital camera without requiring the user to enter information those with ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the present invention may be used to automatically establish Internet accounts for any type of portable electronic device.

The process assumes that a user has just acquired a digital camera customized as described above and has just taken the camera out of its box in step . After taking pictures with the camera in step the user may review the images in the camera s liquid crystal display LCD screen and optionally select a set of images to upload to the photo sharing service in step . The user then presses a send button on the camera in step to upload the images.

In response the camera displays a confirmation dialog screen on the camera and prompts the user to record an audio annotation for the images or to continue in step . The user may then choose to record audio for the images in step . After choosing to continue or after recording audio the camera displays a connecting dialog screen in step to indicate to the user that the camera is establishing an Internet connection. At the same time the camera checks for available connection options in step and if more than one is found the camera prompts the user to select one of the connection options. For example the camera may be within range of a Bluetooth equipped printer and a cellphone so the user will be prompted to choose which device the camera should establish communication with.

The camera then checks for the presence of account information on the camera in step and if there are none the camera assumes that this is a first time connection. According to the present invention in order to allow the camera to make a first time Internet connection the camera is provided with default Internet service provider ISP information during manufacturing including an ISP access number and user ID and password if required . The camera establishes connection with the default ISP in step by dialing the preloaded access number and by sending the preloaded user ID and password to the ISP. This special account may be configured so that the camera can only connect to the gateway server no other IP addresses may be allowed .

After connecting with the ISP the camera connects to the gateway server and sends unique camera information and or user information in step . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a combination of the camera s serial number and the make and model number of the camera may be sent as the unique camera information. In another preferred embodiment the user s e mail address may be sent as the unique camera or user information.

Continuing with the gateway server uses the unique camera information to set up a user account in step . After creating the user account the gateway server returns an information packet to the camera containing new ISP information if needed an account ID and an account password in step . The information packet may also contain a default action list specifying what actions should be taken with respect to the images an advertisement for display on the camera and the URL of the entity specific website .

It should be noted that if the camera is used in conjunction with an internet protocol IP direct phone or is provided with a phone number for connected to a dedicated server where the user is not billed separately for the ISP connection then the steps of providing the camera with default ISP info and returning new ISP info may be omitted.

The camera receives the information packet in step and writes a configuration file to memory containing the ID password and default action list in step . The camera then displays the action list on the camera s LCD screen for selection by the user in step . The camera may optionally display the user s account information as well.

In an alternative preferred embodiment where security is a concern the camera first logs off the special ISP and the gateway accounts and then reconnects using new ISP and gateway accounts in order to retrieve the action lists .

Referring again to after the user selects one or more actions from the action list the camera begins to upload the images along with the selected actions in step and displays a progress bar on the screen in step . In one preferred embodiment the camera may also display the advertisement sent in the information packet from the gateway server . The advertisement may advertise the controlling entity the entity s photo sharing site or the photo sharing service . After all the images are uploaded and associated with the user s account the camera breaks the connection with the gateway server in step . At this point the camera may also display the URL of the entity specific website to the user.

The next time the user uploads images the camera will use any new ISP information received to connect to the Internet and will use the account ID and password written to memory when connecting to the gateway server . Thus by using unique camera information such as the serial number to establish a web site account upon first use the present invention eliminates the need for the user to type in information to establish a web site accounts.

To further explain the present invention from a user interaction point of view consider the following scenario where a user named Jack has just purchased a digital camera from a store and unpacks the camera from the box. There is a Quick Start Guide which guides him in getting started. Jack pops in the batteries sets the date and time and takes some pictures of his dog and his new baby. Jack can see the pictures have come out well on the small LCD and now wants to try sharing them with his parents.

The Quick Start Guide says to select the photos to be sent using the Select button and then press the Send button. So Jack navigates to each of the baby pictures selects them and then presses the Send button. Instantly a dialog comes up on the LCD screen No Receiving Device Found Please turn on your phone or other connecting device. Oops Jack pulls out his cell phone and turns it on. He presses the Continue button. Jack does not see this happen but the camera now discovers the cell phone and immediately presents another dialog 4 Images Selected. Press Record to add a Sound Note or Continue to send . Although Jack finds the proposition of recording sound intriguing he decides to skip it and presses the Continue button. Immediately the dialog is replaced with a Connecting . . . dialog.

Shortly another dialog appears Your camera serial number is 38147. Please write this down. You will need it to access your web photo albums . Jack writes the number down on the spot provided in the Quick Start Guide and presses OK.

Another Connecting . . . dialog appears and is then quickly replaced by another dialog which says A free temporary account has been set up for you at www.photo sharing service.com new accounts. You will need your camera serial number to access your photos and complete the setup of your account. Please complete the account setup within 30 days . Jack writes down the URL in the space provided in the Quick Start Guide and presses the OK button. Jack doesn t know it but during this dialog the camera has begun transmitting his images and is already partially complete.

A new dialog comes up with a progress bar. Jack is surprised to see that the transmission is already almost done. Below the progress bar the dialog says Press Continue to use camera during photo transmission or wait for progress bar to complete . Jack is interested in watching how fast his images are transmitted and decides to watch the progress bar complete. A Transmission Successful dialog appears. Jack presses the OK button. The camera returns to the review mode.

Jack is pretty excited he just sent four baby pictures to the Internet. Jack then decides to see what happened to his images so he turns on his PC. After connecting to the Internet Jack types in the URL from the Quick Start Guide. A Photo sharing service web page appears welcoming Jack to the photo sharing service. After looking briefly at the welcome page Jack types in his serial number from the Quick Start Guide and selects his camera s model number from a pop up menu. Jack clicks on a Submit button on the web page.

Jack now sees a page which shows thumbnails of the baby pictures he just sent the page is entitled My Shoebox . The page explains to Jack that he is looking at his on line digital photo shoebox. Since the server knows this is Jack s first visit special help messages may appear. Various options are provided via buttons and text links. One that catches Jack s eye is CREATE WEB PHOTO ALBUM. Jack clicks this button and works his way through the process of setting up an on line photo album. This includes selecting photos from the shoebox as well as selecting layout and style. One of the check box items Jack is offered is Make this album a camera Action List Item . Jack doesn t know what that is so he clicks the Action List link which brings up a brief description If you check this box you will be able to send pictures directly from the camera to this photo album Jack finds this interesting so he closes the description window and checks the box. Jack also enters the email address for his parents and his wife s parents so they can be notified to come and see his photo album which he has entitled Our First Baby .

One of the buttons Jack does not click is the Complete Account Setup button. He knows that he has 30 days to do that chore and figures he will get back to it later.

Jack s wife arrives home from shopping at this point and Jack wants to show her how the new camera works. He starts by showing her the baby album on the PC then decides to take some pictures of them holding the baby. Jack then selects the images and presses the Send button again.

Since his cell phone is still on sitting on the table a few feet away the connection goes smoothly and quickly. A new dialog pops up surprising Jack. It says Select the destination for your pictures and offers two choices My Shoebox and Our First Baby . Jack is amazed he doesn t realize that the server downloaded his action list to his camera during the connection. Jack decides to select the Our First Baby web album as the destination for the images and clicks OK. The pictures are sent as before. After the transmission has completed Jack goes to the PC to check on the photo album. When Jack refreshes the album page he now sees the additional pictures he just sent along with the pictures he sent before.

Jack spots a Send Prints link on the web page and clicks it. He is led through a selection of print types mailing addresses and credit card info to make it possible to send prints. He is offered the option of completing the setup of his account. Jack decides to do that now and proceeds to fill out the requested information including his credit card number. Once the account setup is complete Jack continues the print order. One of the radio button items is Make prints a separate Action List Item or Make prints part of your Action List . Jack remembers something about Action Lists from before but is not sure what this means. The description says Making a separate action list for prints allows you to decide in the camera to send to the photo album and send prints or to just send to the photo album. Jack thinks this is cool and checks the Make prints a separate Action List item. The next time Jack sends photos from the camera his action list will be updated to present three choices My Shoebox Our First Baby and Our First Baby w Prints.

The underlying technology supporting this scenario are summarized below. Other functions and features are assumed but not required for this scenario 

4. Software capable of recognizing automatically a set of supported phones and adjusting the protocol to match

5. Action Lists maintained on the server that are automatically downloaded to the camera to update the camera selection list each time a connection is made

7. Ability to download files to the camera from the server. The files could be text graphics interchange format GIF animated GIF joint photograph experts group JPG or even a script or applet. This feature enables the ability to display advertisements on the camera remind the user of remaining time to complete account setup make special offers and indicate limits reached.

A method and system for automatically configuring a web enabled digital camera to access the Internet has been disclosed. Although the present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and those variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. For example although the photo sharing service has been described as including the gateway server and the database the database may be located elsewhere. Also the gateway server may be used to control account information while one or more other servers may be used to provide the web pages of the entity specific websites. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

