---

title: Integrated physical security control system for computing resources
abstract: A computing data center that contains a set of physically isolatable units of computing resources for which a physical security exception action plan is to be provided. Upon determining that a security event has occurred for one or more physically isolatable units, the computing data center implements physical security settings on potentially affected computing resources so that a physical security exception action plan can be met. The computing data center may, for example, remove data from the physically isolatable units and make the removed data available elsewhere.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984651&OS=08984651&RS=08984651
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08984651
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 237 771 filed Sep. 20 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 528 101 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A data center is a facility that houses computer systems and various networking storage and other related components. Many organizations and businesses operate and maintain data centers to provide computing and information services to support their day to day operations. Data centers may also provide computing services to businesses and individuals as a remote computing service or to provide software as a service e.g. cloud computing . The services provided by data centers are extremely important to businesses as the continued and reliable availability of the computing services are important to the business s ongoing operations. It is thus necessary to provide reliable and secure computing services in order to minimize disruptions to customers of the computing services. Security is an important concern not only for service reliability but also for the protection of a customer s valuable and proprietary information. A data center must therefore implement a secure computing environment in order to provide such protections.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure.

Many computer security mechanisms focus on the protection of information from theft and other security exceptions by preventing unauthorized access to computing assets. However such security mechanisms typically do not address the protection of assets and the information contained therein once a security exception has occurred. In various embodiments the present disclosure describes systems and methods for implementing a security mechanism for the physical protection of data in response to a security exception in a computing data center e.g. an unauthorized entry to part of the data center .

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as Web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example. While the data center is shown as a single data center structure it should be apparent that data center can include multiple data centers each of which can house computing resources. The multiple data centers can be situated in the same location or situated in different locations.

The data center is utilized to house and operate computer systems and associated components. The data center can include redundant and backup power communications cooling and security systems.

The customers and other consumers of the data center may access the computing resources provided by the data center over a network . It should be appreciated that network can include a local area network LAN the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the data center to remote consumers of the data center . It should also be appreciated that combinations of such networks might also be utilized.

The user computer is a computer utilized by a customer or other consumer of the data center . For instance the user computer may be a server computer a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing the data center . Although only one user computer is depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

The user computer may be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by the data center . In this regard the data center might provide a Web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a Web browser application program executing on the user computer . Alternatively a stand alone application program executing on the user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by the data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of the data center including deploying updates to an application might also be utilized.

In server racks and are depicted as including rack routers and . Rack is shown as including a rack switch . The rack routers and switch may be responsible for switching packets of digital data to and from their respective sets of server computers . The rack routers and switch may be communicatively linked to a LAN and then to additional routers that connect the data center to one or more other computer networks including the Internet. Each rack can also include resident storage for data of varying levels of importance that require corresponding levels of physical security.

In one embodiment the computing resources A B C N which may be referred herein singularly as a computing resource or in the plural as the computing resources may be virtual machine instances. As known in the art a virtual machine instance is an instance of a software implementation of a machine i.e. a computer that executes programs much like a physical machine executes programs. In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers and may be configured to execute an instance manager capable of executing the instances. The instance manager might be a hypervisor or another type of program configured to enable the execution of multiple computing resources on a single server for example. As discussed above each of the computing resources may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of instances can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the technologies disclosed herein might be utilized with instances of storage resources processing resources data communications resources and with other types of resources. The embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

The data center shown in also may also include a server computer reserved for executing software components for managing the operation of the data center the server computers and and the resources . In particular the server computer might execute a management component . As discussed above a customer of the data center might utilize the user computer to access the management component to configure various aspects of the operation of data center and the resources purchased by the customer. Resources can include applications and other services provided by the data center such as virtual machine sessions. For example the customer may purchase access to one or more virtual machine instances and make changes to the configuration of the virtual machine instances. The customer might also specify settings regarding how the purchased virtual machine instances are to be scaled in response to demand. Any of the computers described herein can include at least one processor a memory communicatively coupled to the processor when the system is operational with the memory having stored therein computer instructions that upon execution by the at least one processor cause various computer implemented steps to be performed.

In the example of data center shown in LAN is utilized to interconnect the server computers and and the server computer . The LAN is also connected to the network illustrated in . It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. Appropriate load balancing devices or software modules might also be utilized for balancing a load between multiple data centers between each of the server computers and and between resources purchased by each customer of the data center . These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should be appreciated that the data center described in and is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

As illustrated in the server computer is also configured in one embodiment to execute a logging component and a security component . The logging component is configured to control various aspects of computing activity performed by the resources . For example the logging component might log DNS lookup operations which might also be referred to herein as DNS queries performed by the resources incoming and outgoing network traffic to and from the resources data processing and data storage operations performed by the resources and virtually any other type of computing activity performed by the resources . Although the logging component is illustrated in as executing on the server computer it should be appreciated that all or a portion of the logging component might be executed on the server computers and or other computer systems.

The security component is configured to manage various security aspects of the data center . For example the security component might implement security mechanisms using a security component to protect the integrity of user data and guard against unauthorized access to the various services and components provided in data center . Although the security component is illustrated in as executing on the server computer it should be appreciated that all or a portion of the security component might be executed on the server computers and or other computer systems.

In one embodiment a data center is configured to provide computation and storage services and to physically secure data using a security exception response plan. As discussed above data center may include one or more physically isolatable units that comprise discrete physical computing assets. In an embodiment security component in data center identifies a set of computing resources for which a physical security exception response plan is to be provided. This may be based on physical data security preferences received from a customer receiving hosting services from the data center . As discussed above the physical data security preferences may identify the desired level of security e.g. room level or rack level security backup settings e.g. whether a complete backup of the user s data is desired the response to a security exception e.g. delete data or move data to a secure location and the like. Based on the identified set of computing resources and the physical data security preferences a security exception response plan for the computing data center s physically isolatable units are determined. The security exception response plan identifies actions to be performed upon detection of a security exception for each of the identified computing resources. Upon determining that a security exception has occurred at the computing data center that indicates that there is a heightened risk that at least a portion of the computation storage or network resources could be compromised the security component implements the security exception response plan on potentially affected computing resources. The security component may for example remove data from the physically isolatable units and make the removed data available elsewhere.

In an embodiment security component may monitor the authentication and authorization of users accessing a particular physical space in the data center . Such a physical space can be any physically isolatable asset in the data center such as a rack a room or the building. For example access to an equipment rack may require authentication of a user authorized to access the rack. Authentication may include use of access methods known in the art such as an identification ID card entry of a personal identification number PIN entry and analysis of biometric information such as a fingerprint reader and the like.

Authorization may also include maintaining a whitelist of persons who are authorized to access a rack or enter a room or building. Such a whitelist may further be restricted in accordance with the date or time of day or other constraints.

In addition to authorization and authentication physical security exceptions may result from alarms or other such warning indications when unexpected events occur. For example a door in the data center may have been forced open rather than being opened in response to a positive authorization. As another example motion detectors or pressure sensors in the floor may sense motion in an area in which a person is not expected.

In an embodiment the data center may include a capability to relocate computation storage and network resources into and out of a particular physical space such as a rack room or the building itself. For example in the case of a computation resource implementing a virtual machine relocation of a particular computation resource can be accomplished by stopping the execution of a virtual machine in one physical space migrating the virtual machine to another physical space and restarting the virtual machine. As another example a physical server may simply be powered off to prevent access to any processes executing therein.

In an embodiment depicted in data center has rooms and that each contain computing and storage resources. In this example data associated with a customer for whom a security exception response plan has been established may be stored on a storage device in room . Additionally a process associated with the customer may be running in computing device in room . Suppose in this example that the customer has provided preferences and a physical security action plan is in place. Upon determining that a security exception associated with room has occurred a security component can process the security action plan and determine that customer s data and resources are to be removed from room . In response to this determination a service can cause the customer data stored in storage device in room can be migrated to in room . Furthermore the process running on computing device can be migrated to computing device in room . In one embodiment the data sent to room can be encrypted and the key or keys for the encryption may be sent to the servers of room such that the data can be accessed in the new location. Additionally and optionally the process running on computing device in room can be deleted.

In another embodiment depicted in a virtual machine may be executing on a server in room and an associated storage device that the virtual machine uses may be located in another room . In this example since the virtual machine data is stored in a different room the virtual machine is migrated to server in room or simply shut down in response to a security event associated with room .

In the case of storage resources a stored asset may be copied stored in another physical space and deleted from the compromised physical location. As another example stored assets that are encrypted may be secured by deleting all copies of the decryption keys that are stored in the compromised physical location. In some embodiments at a time after the security exception occurs the data associated with the room that is associated with the security exception is encrypted and the keys deleted potentially after making the data available in another secure location.

Furthermore routing tables may be changed to avoid routers network devices and computing resources located in the compromised physical space and thus prevent network flows from entering the compromised physical space.

In an embodiment when an alarm or other event is triggered the security component may immediately and automatically initiate a migration of one or more computation storage and or network flows out of the physical space in which the event has been determined to have occurred. When the alarm or event is cleared the migrated flows may be restored to their original physical space. The event that triggers the response may be any type of planned or unplanned event. Examples of planned events can include scheduled access to the data center by maintenance personnel or changes to the configuration of the data center. Examples of unplanned events include unauthorized access to a secured rack unscheduled entry to a room in the data center natural disaster events such as flooding of a data center and the like.

Operation illustrates determining security preferences for the user. For example in the example depicted in a user at a user computer may request or manage computing resources via a network . For example the user may request and manage computing resources including virtual machines applications and or a fixed amount of storage. The user may further provide security preferences which may include physical asset options security breach options and backup recovery options. In an embodiment the user can enter the security preferences into a web page or the like. In the example shown in a web page may include fields that a user can use to select the different security options. In one embodiment the user may specify that the user s data and applications should be isolated to a single physically isolatable unit such as a rack cage or room. In other embodiments the actual physical distribution of the user s data and applications may be transparent to the user.

A user interface may be provided to the user for facilitating the selection and receipt of the physical data security preferences that can be used to define a security exception response plan for the user. For example a Web interface may be provided through which aspects of physical data security preferences may be configured through the use of a Web browser application program executing on the user computer . Alternatively a stand alone application program executing on the user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by an entity managing the computing resources in the data center for configuring physical data security preferences. For example a web services API can be provided so that a computing customer can provide preferences for physical security settings. In some embodiments the customer may be charged different service rates depending upon the selected security preferences. Other mechanisms for configuring the physical data security preferences may also be utilized.

Operation illustrates that based at least in part on the physical data security preferences received from the user a set of the computing resources for which a physical security exception action plan is to be provided is identified. The physical data security preferences may include at least a physical security setting for one or more physically isolatable units. A physically isolatable unit can be one or more equipment racks or other such physical units. For example it may be determined that the user s data is stored in a storage device in a rack and that the user s applications are executing in a server mounted in the same rack.

Operation illustrates monitoring whether a physical security exception has occurred at the computing data center. A physical security exception may for example be any event that may be detected by a system at the data center that may indicate an exception to the physical data security preferences received from the user. For example a security exception may be a failure to authorize or authenticate a person physically entering or otherwise accessing a rack room or any physically isolatable unit in the data center including the data center itself.

In response to determining that a physical security exception has occurred the security exception action plan may be implemented . For example if not already known it may be determined which computing assets are executing storing or otherwise hosting the services associated with the user and for which the above described security exception action plan is to be provided. The identified set of computing resources may be removed or otherwise made unavailable so that the physical data security preferences can be met in accordance with the security exception action plan. The removed computing resources may be made available elsewhere. In one embodiment the computing resources may be made available from a physically secure location that meets the physical data security preferences established for the user. For example data that is stored within a set of computing resources that are potentially vulnerable because of the security breach may be stored at another physical location and the data on the vulnerable set of computing resources may be deleted or otherwise made unavailable to an unauthorized person.

In one embodiment each rack cage room and data center can be assigned to a physical unit identifier. During the determining step the security component can use a customer identifier to generate a list of physical unit identifiers that are currently associated with the customer identifier. This query could be executed periodically to keep the mapping accurate. When a sensor in a room triggers an event the security component can determine its physical unit identifier and determine which customers are impacted. The security component can consult the security exception action plan for the customer as well as any other customers and take an appropriate action.

The user s data and applications may be protected in other ways so that the computing resources hosting the data and applications are substantially protected from unauthorized physical access. For example data associated with the vulnerable set of computing resources may have been previously encrypted or can be encrypted as a result of the breach and the decryption keys can be stored in a secure location and deleted from any assets that are vulnerable because of the security exception. Decryption keys are merely an example and any data that is operable to decrypt the encrypted data may be stored in a manner that is protected from the security exception.

Additionally and optionally routing tables and policies may be adjusted to avoid communications with network devices located in the vicinity of the physical security exception. For example routing paths may be revised so that a router that is known to reside in a room that has been breached is bypassed and alternative routing paths are used. In this manner data communications between computing and or storage resources that are not directly impacted by the security exception can avoid any compromised areas in the data center and thus avoid being potentially subjected to unauthorized access and tampering.

The data center may also determine if any changes to the security settings should be implemented . Changes to the security settings may be in response to a request for a change from a user or in response to changes in the configuration of computing resources in the data center .

Operation illustrates a determination that the security exception has been terminated. For example the security exception may have been determined to have been a false alarm and the appropriate security and control systems may be notified automatically or manually by an administrator. In response to the determination operation illustrates resuming normal operations in accordance with the security exception action plan. For example the identified set of the computing resources can be resumed and any data or applications that were moved or migrated may be returned to their former locations. Alternatively the migrated resources can stay where they are.

In many cases the rapid wholesale migration of computing processes and data may be expensive and or time consuming. Thus in some embodiments a mechanism can be provided for designating particular compute storage and network flows as physical security critical. Only those designated flows may be migrated or otherwise made unavailable during a security event or breach. More generally a priority scheme may be implemented that allows for the most security critical assets and flows to be migrated or secured first before less critical assets are migrated or secured. Alternatively the priority can be based on whether the user has selected and paid to have such priority mechanism activated.

Operation illustrates that based at least in part on the security exception action plan a set of the computing services for which the security exception action plan is to be provided is identified. Operation illustrates a determining whether a physical security exception has occurred at the computing data center. In response to determining that a physical security exception has occurred operation illustrates that a security component such as security component in may determine which data may be potentially compromised as a result of the security exception and for which the security exception action plan is to be provided. The identified data may be migrated in operation such that the security exception action plan can be met. The migrated data may be made available elsewhere. In one embodiment the migrated data may be made available from a physically secure location that satisfies a condition specified in the security exception action plan established for the user. For example the security exception action plan may include a condition indicating that the data may be moved to any location that is not experiencing a security exception. Additionally and optionally the security exception action plan may include a condition indicating that the data may be moved to a location that is not experiencing a security event and the security exception action plan may specify that the data needs to be moved to a location that satisfies regulatory and compliance requirements e.g. HIPAA regulations ITAR regulations banking and financial regulations etc.

If no physical security exception has occurred then in operation it is determined whether there have been any changes to the security exception action plan or computing resources. If there have been changes then the operational procedure returns to operation and operation to determine the security exception action plan and identify computing resources associated with the plan.

Operation illustrates a determination as to whether the physical security exception has been terminated. For example an unauthorized user may have triggered the security exception by entering a room hosting the data and the exception may be terminated when the security component receives an indication that security personnel have responded to the exception. In response to the determination at operation the migrated data may be restored and or moved back to its former location. In some embodiments the migrated data stays in its new location.

Any of the above mentioned aspects can be implemented in methods systems computer readable media or any type of manufacture. For example a computer readable medium can store thereon computer executable instructions for physically securing data in a computing data center. Such media can comprise a first subset of instructions for allowing access in the computing data center one or more computing resources to a user a second subset of instructions for based at least in part on physical data security preferences associated with the user identifying a set of the computing resources for which a physical security exception action plan is to be provided a third set of instructions for determining that a physical event has occurred at the computing data center and a fourth set of instructions for in response to said determining applying the physical security exception action plan on the identified set of computing resources. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that additional sets of instructions can be used to capture the various other aspects disclosed herein and that the four presently disclosed subsets of instructions can vary in detail per the present disclosure.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are discussed or illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them can be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system modules and or data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The system modules and data structures can also be transmitted via generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and can take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosure e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

