---

title: Extensible kernel for adaptive application enhancement
abstract: Resource use by applications used by user equipment (UE) is adaptively controlled. A UE can comprise a modem-network kernel component that can be well partitioned from modem operations and can facilitate adaptively controlling use of functional blocks for applications of the UE, and enhancing use of network resources in connection with use of applications by the UE. The kernel component can operate in a protected area of the baseband and can utilize APIs and interfaces available to it by existing modem stacks and UE operating systems. The kernel component can interact with the communication network to adaptively present network enabler functions to other parts of the system. The kernel component can facilitate managing secure communication with the communication network to facilitate proper cross-layer optimization practices, including capabilities for compression and decompression, rate shaping, and event notification associated with the communication network and UE subsystems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456071&OS=09456071&RS=09456071
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09456071
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131112
---
This disclosure relates generally to network communications and more specifically to an extensible kernel for adaptive application enhancement.

A wireless communication system can be utilized to provide wireless access to various communication services e.g. voice video data messaging content broadcast etc. for users of the system. Wireless communication systems can operate according to a variety of network specifications and or standards such as for example universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE high speed packet access HSPA . These specifications and or standards use different modulation techniques such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA multi carrier CDMA MC CDMA single carrier CDMA SC CDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA and so on.

Communication devices e.g. wireless communication devices such as mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices and computers are increasingly using applications to perform various functions and to communicate information between these communication devices and other communication devices e.g. other mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices computers servers etc. . An application can reside on a user s communication device in a cloud and or on a server farm for example.

The above described description is merely intended to provide a contextual overview of wireless communication networks and is not intended to be exhaustive.

Various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Communication devices e.g. wireless communication devices such as mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices and computers can be used to communicate voice and data information to other communication devices and or to perform other desired functions e.g. perform calculations take photographs play video or music content play games etc. . Communication devices also are increasingly using applications to perform various functions and to communicate information between these communication devices and other communication devices.

Over time such communication devices have become more and more complex as more features have been added to communication devices. Some impediments to adding new features and capabilities to communication devices can be the expense and time used to add new features and capabilities to communication devices. Another issue associated with communication devices and applications can be harmonizing communication device and application behaviors for communication networks.

Techniques for adaptively controlling resources e.g. functional blocks of a communication device used by applications that are used by the communication device e.g. user equipment UE are presented herein. The communication device can comprise a kernel component e.g. a modem network kernel component that can facilitate adaptively controlling applications and the UE and enhancing use of network resources in connection with use of applications by the UE e.g. by enabling dynamic communication network optimization or enhancement practices . The kernel component can be or can comprise a dedicated kernel that can be well partitioned from modem operations and the kernel of the operating system. The kernel component can operate in a protected area of the base band and can utilize application programming interfaces APIs and interfaces available to the kernel component by existing modem stacks and UE operating systems. The kernel component also can provide interfaces tools and protocols that can be designed to add communication network capabilities e.g. add new communication network capabilities such as provided by the communication network e.g. by network operators operating or associated with the communication network . These interfaces tools and protocols can facilitate communication network enhancement e.g. optimization and quality of experience QOE practices.

The kernel component can interact with the communication network to adaptively present network enabler functions to other parts of the system. APIs associated with and or provided by the kernel component can be tooled designed or structured to facilitate enabling applications to be network aware e.g. aware of the communication network and its network conditions . Network agents and network clients on the communication device can interact with network policy servers e.g. policy servers in or associated with the communication network and network analytics to facilitate enabling applications to take advantage of dynamic policies and radio access network RAN optimization enabler functions associated with the communication network.

The kernel component also can facilitate managing secure communication with the communication network to facilitate proper cross layer optimization practices. The cross layer optimization practices can comprise for example capabilities for compression and decompression rate shaping and or event notification associated with the communication network and UE subsystems among other capabilities such as disclosed herein.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of an example system that can facilitate adaptively controlling resources e.g. functional blocks used for applications employed by communication devices e.g. UEs in a communication network in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. The system can comprise a UE e.g. mobile and or wireless communication device such as a mobile phone e.g. 3GPP universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS phone electronic notebook electronic pad or tablet electronic gaming device personal digital assistant PDA computer set top box etc. that can operate and communicate in a communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be communicatively connected via a wireless communication connection s via an access point AP to a communication network s .

In an aspect as the UE is moved through a wireless communication network environment at various times the UE can be connected e.g. wirelessly connected to one of a plurality of APs e.g. macro or cellular AP femto AP pico AP wi fi AP wi max AP hotspot e.g. hotspot 1.x hotspot 2.x where x is an integer number UE functioning as a mobile hotspot etc. etc. such as an AP that can operate in the wireless communication network environment. An AP e.g. can serve a specified coverage area to facilitate communication by the UE or other UEs in the wireless communication network environment. The AP can serve a respective coverage cell e.g. macrocell femtocell picocell etc. that can cover a respective specified area and the AP can service mobile wireless devices such as UE located in the respective area covered by the respective cell where such coverage can be achieved via a wireless link e.g. uplink UL downlink DL . When an attachment attempt is successful the UE can be served by the AP and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the UE through the AP and outgoing voice and data traffic from the UE can be paged and routed through the AP to other communication devices e.g. another UE in the communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be connected and can communicate wirelessly using virtually any desired wireless technology including for example cellular wi Fi wi Max wireless local area networks WLAN etc.

At desired times the UE can utilize one or more applications such as for example application application and or up through application wherein k can be virtually any desired number. In accordance with various implementations all or a portion of the applications e.g. etc. can reside in the UE and or all or a portion of the applications e.g. etc. can reside in another communication device s associated with the communication network . In some implementations the communication network can facilitate wireless connection with the UE connected to the AP and facilitate communication by or between a UE and another UE s not shown or other type of communication device s e.g. computer server or server farm that can include an application server or content server that can be provide video content audio content and or other content comprising other types of information etc. not shown wherein the communication device s can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the communication network in the communication network environment.

In accordance with various implementations all or a portion of the applications e.g. etc. can reside in the UE and or all or a portion of the applications e.g. etc. can reside in a remote communication device s associated with the communication network . An application e.g. or being used by the UE can have functions that can be executed by the UE and or by the remote communication device associated with the application. An application e.g. etc. can be for example a messaging application a gaming application a utility application a financial application a news application a social networking application a video application a music application an online shopping application a mobile to mobile M2M type of application a VoIP type of application or a near real time NRT type of application among other types of applications. In some implementations the UE can be connected e.g. directly with one or more applications e.g. or using for example one or more various types of wireless communication technology such as near field communication NFC technology bluetooth technology zigBee technology etc. In certain implementations the UE can function as a mobile hotspot e.g. AP to which one or more applications can be wirelessly connected to facilitate communication of traffic e.g. voice or data traffic between an application s and the communication network via the UE . It is to be further appreciated and understood that one or more communication devices e.g. remote communication device can be located within a cloud wherein for example the cloud can include a server farm comprising one or more servers e.g. application servers that can be utilized to perform respective application functions e.g. VoIP video streaming messaging multimedia electronic gaming news related functions social media functions finance related functions etc. based at least in part on the type of application.

The communication network can include one or more wireline communication networks and one or more wireless communication networks wherein the one or more wireless communication networks can be based on one or more various types of communication technology or protocols such as for example 3G 4G or x generation xG network where x can be virtually any desired integer or real value wi fi etc. The communication network e.g. a core network or a network comprising a core network and or an IP based network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between a communication device s e.g. UE and other communication devices e.g. remote communication device associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network also can allocate resources to the UE or other UEs in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce quality of service QOS for the UEs e.g. UE provide applications or services in the communication network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the communication network e.g. wireless portion of the communication network or wireline portion of the communication network . The communication network further can include desired components such as routers nodes switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices in the communication network environment.

The UE can comprise a connection manager component that can facilitate establishing connections between the UE and applications used by the UE and the communication network and or another communication device associated with the communication network controlling operation of the applications e.g. etc. controlling operation of functional blocks e.g. functional blocks comprising baseband functions and or performing other operations that can facilitate desired operation of the UE as more fully disclosed herein.

The UE also can comprise an operating system OS kernel component e.g. rich OS kernel component that can be employed to facilitate performing operations by the UE including for example managing input output data requests e.g. from software and or an application translating requests into instructions e.g. data processing instructions for execution by a processor component or other component of the UE etc. The OS kernel component can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the connection manager component e.g. via a bus .

In some implementations the UE can comprise a resource manager component that can facilitate managing certain resources e.g. functional blocks comprising baseband functions contained on the UE and or performing other desired operations in connection with such resources of the UE . The UE also can comprise a functional block component that can comprise a set of functional blocks e.g. functional block sub components comprising functional block functional block and or up through functional block wherein j can be virtually any desired number. The respective functional blocks e.g. etc. can perform respective functions e.g. baseband functions such as for example data compression or decompression data encryption or decryption location detection network awareness functions e.g. network condition sensing e.g. network congestion sensing power level sensing etc. etc. The set of functional blocks e.g. etc. can be located on the system on chip SOC e.g. can be at the SOC level wherein the functional blocks can be of can comprise firmware or hardware for example. The connection manager component can have access to at least some of the control layers at the SOC and can facilitate controlling operation of the functional blocks e.g. etc. in the set of functional blocks.

To facilitate desirable operation e.g. optimal enhanced favorable etc. operation of the UE the UE can comprise a kernel component that that can be employed to facilitate performing certain operations by the UE including for example managing certain input output data requests e.g. from software and or an application translating certain requests into instructions e.g. data processing instructions for execution by a processor component or other component e.g. a functional block s of the UE etc. The kernel component can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the connection manager component via a kernel interface component and a dedicated bus. The kernel component also can be associated with at least a portion of the functional block component e.g. a portion of the functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s of the functional block component .

The kernel component and or the connection manager component can operate to facilitate adaptively controlling certain resources e.g. secure embedded and or proprietary functional blocks of the UE for example when using applications. The kernel component and or the connection manager component also can facilitate adaptively controlling operation of the applications e.g. etc. and the UE and enhancing use of network resources of the communication network in connection with use of applications by the UE e.g. by enabling dynamic communication network optimization or enhancement practices in accordance with defined communication enhancement criteria.

In some implementations the kernel component can be or can comprise a modem network kernel component. The kernel component also can be a dedicated kernel component e.g. a dedicated kernel that can be well partitioned from modem operations and the OS kernel component . The kernel component can operate in a protected or secure area of the baseband and can utilize various APIs and interfaces available to the kernel component by existing modem stacks and UE operating systems. The kernel interface component and a first subset of the functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s of the functional block component also can be well partitioned from other components e.g. OS kernel component of the UE . For instance the kernel component and the first subset of functional blocks can be partitioned or placed in a secure and trusted area of the UE so that they cannot be visible to or accessed by certain applications e.g. 3 party applications or other unauthorized applications certain UE components e.g. the OS kernel component or other unauthorized entities e.g. unauthorized and or 3 party communication service providers to facilitate securing the kernel component and the first subset of functional blocks from being attacked destroyed or taken over by the certain unauthorized applications unauthorized components or other unauthorized entities.

The kernel component can have direct access to certain modem functions and the first subset of functional blocks wherein certain other components e.g. OS kernel component of the UE that are outside the secure and trusted area of the UE will not have access e.g. direct access to the first subset of functional blocks. In some implementations a portion of memory resources e.g. a dedicated memory e.g. dedicated data store or a partition in a shared memory a portion of processing resources e.g. a dedicated processor or certain processing resources of a shared processor component can be partitioned and placed in the secure and trusted area of the UE with the kernel component and the kernel component can utilize such partitioned portion of the memory resources and or processing resources.

The kernel component also can provide interfaces tools and protocols that can be designed to add communication network capabilities e.g. add new communication network capabilities e.g. as provided by the communication network e.g. as provided by network operators operating or associated with the communication network to facilitate desirably controlling resources e.g. the first subset of functional blocks applications e.g. intelligent applications or other components of the UE in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices . These interfaces tools and protocols can facilitate communication network enhancement e.g. optimization and QOE practices.

The kernel component also can interact with the communication network to present e.g. adaptively present network enabler functions to other parts of the system . APIs associated with and or provided by the kernel component can be tooled designed or structured to facilitate enabling applications e.g. etc. to be network aware e.g. aware of the communication network and its network conditions . Network agents and network clients on the UE can interact with network policy servers e.g. policy servers in or associated with the communication network and network analytics to facilitate enabling applications e.g. etc. to take advantage of dynamic policies and RAN enabler functions e.g. RAN optimization enabler functions associated with the communication network .

The kernel component also can facilitate managing secure communication with the communication network to facilitate proper cross layer practices e.g. proper cross layer optimization or enhancement practices . The cross layer practices can comprise for example capabilities for compression and decompression rate shaping and or event notification associated with the communication network and UE subsystems among other capabilities such as disclosed herein. The kernel component e.g. dedicated kernel can be at the baseband level and can coexist and collaborate with other UE functions including the operating system and the OS kernel component . In some implementations the kernel component can be common across all of the UEs wherein the kernel component can facilitate unifying the optimization practices among the various UE types.

In some implementations the UE also can comprise a second subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block and or another functional block s of the functional block component that can be associated with the OS kernel component . The connection manager component OS kernel component and the second subset of functional blocks can be located in an open area of the UE that can be outside of the secure and trusted area e.g. zone of the UE . In some implementations the open area of the UE also can have a desired level of security wherein such desired level of security can be different from the security level of the secure or trusted area e.g. the secure or trusted zone of the UE .

Various other aspects and implementations of the kernel component and connection manager component will be described herein. In some implementations the connection manager component can monitor or track and can collect information relating to activity behavior and or traffic flows e.g. voice or data traffic flows associated with the UE and network related conditions e.g. network state information network related triggers network related controls etc. associated with the communication network . The connection manager component can analyze the information relating to activity behavior and or traffic flows e.g. voice or data traffic flows associated with the UE and network related conditions to generate analysis results. As part of the analysis the connection manager component can access and apply policy information e.g. communication enhancement policy information for example obtained from a policy database e.g. stored in a data store of the UE . The policy information can be based at least in part on the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. which can be in accordance with desired optimization practices .

The connection manager component and or the kernel component can facilitate controlling e.g. adaptively controlling the respective switching states of respective functional blocks e.g. and or of the first subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s based at least in part on the analysis results in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. In some implementations based at least in part on the analysis results the connection manager component can generate control instructions or switching recommendations that can facilitate desirably switching on or off respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate enhancing e.g. optimizing acceptably improving or augmenting etc. operation of the UE and or the communication network . The connection manager component can communicate the control instructions or switching recommendations to the first subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s or a portion thereof via the kernel component and the kernel interface component to facilitate controlling the respective switching states of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks. The kernel component and or the resource manager e.g. a secure or trusted portion of the resource manager component or a dedicated resource manager not shown that is located in the secure of trusted area of the UE can process or execute the control instructions or switching recommendations and can switch on or switch off respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks in response to the control instructions or switching recommendations.

In other implementations based at least in part on the analysis results the connection manager component can update policy data in a policy database or table e.g. stored in a data store of the UE wherein the updated policy data can comprise information that can facilitate instructing or recommending that the kernel component respectively switch on or switch off respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The kernel component can access or obtain the updated policy data from the policy database or table. The kernel component can facilitate respectively switching on or switching off the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks based at least in part on the updated policy data.

In some aspects the connection manager component can provide e.g. expose present communicate etc. information regarding functional blocks e.g. the secure or proprietary functional blocks of the UE to facilitate controlling e.g. adaptively controlling functional blocks used by an application s that is used by the UE . The connection manager component can identify or determine the set of functional blocks of the functional block component of the UE . From the set of functional blocks the connection manager component can identify or determine the first subset of functional blocks e.g. associated with the secure or trusted area of the UE and the second subset of functional blocks e.g. associated with the open area of the UE .

The connection manager component can facilitate providing e.g. exposing presenting etc. the information relating to e.g. identifying the first subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s to the one or more applications e.g. and or etc. to facilitate notifying the one or more applications of the availability of the first subset of functional blocks on the UE . An application e.g. application can analyze or evaluate the information relating to the first subset of functional blocks and or other information and can determine and or select one or more of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate requesting that those one or more of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks be turned on for use with the application. The application or the component associated therewith can generate and send to the connection manager component selection information that can indicate that the application is requesting that the one or more of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks be turned on for use with the application.

The connection manager component can receive the selection information from the application or the component associated therewith. The connection manager component can initialize e.g. switch to the on state the one or more functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks based at least in part on e.g. in response to the selection information in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The connection manager component can facilitate establishing a communication connection e.g. facilitate establishing IP layer connectivity between the application e.g. and UE and the communication network to facilitate initiating a communication session associated with the application e.g. wherein the application e.g. can use the one or more functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks during the communication session. The communication connection can be a 3G 4G or wi fi communication connection for example. The connection manager component can receive or detect network related information e.g. network level notifications etc. relating to the communication network . The connection manager component can provide the network related information and or baseband related information e.g. baseband notifications associated with functional blocks to the application and or the user of the UE to facilitate informing the application and or the user of the network related information and or baseband related information.

In some implementations the connection manager component and or APIs associated with the kernel component can monitor or track and or collect information relating to activity behavior and or traffic flows e.g. voice or data traffic flows associated with the UE and network related conditions e.g. network state information network related triggers network related controls etc. associated with the communication network . The connection manager component can update policy data e.g. stored in a policy table or database in the data store of the UE with network related information received or detected from the communication network . The network related information can comprise for example information relating to network related communication conditions e.g. network congestion level network state information e.g. network state change information network related triggers and or network related controls etc. associated with the communication network .

The connection manager component can provide e.g. expose present communicate etc. at least a portion of the policy data e.g. updated policy data to one or more applications associated with e.g. utilized by the UE . The connection manager component and or the application e.g. and or the kernel component can analyze the policy data or a portion thereof to facilitate determining whether a functional block s of the first subset of functional blocks is to be switched on or switched off e.g. at a given time during the communication session . Based at least in part on the results of the analysis of the policy data or portion thereof the connection manager component and or the application e.g. and or the kernel component can determine an enhanced e.g. optimized favorable most desirable acceptable etc. operation condition in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices . The enhanced operation condition can be associated with e.g. mapped to the switching on or switching off of respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks for example.

The connection manager component and or the kernel component can provide e.g. expose present communicate etc. information relating to the enhanced operation condition to the application e.g. and or the user via the user s UE to facilitate controlling the switching on or switching off of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s . The connection manager component can thereby facilitate controlling the respective switching of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s based at least in part on the information relating to the enhanced operation condition. Based at least in part on e.g. in response to receiving the information relating to the enhanced operation condition the kernel component the resource manager e.g. and or the respective functional blocks e.g. functional block functional block and or another functional block s can facilitate respectively switching on or off the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate desired operation of the UE including the respective functional blocks and the communication network e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices .

The connection manager component also can provide update information relating to the enhanced operation condition to the communication network e.g. the base station and or another component of the communication network via the base station . The communication network can use this information to facilitate implementing a desired network operational modification if any based at least in part on the enhanced operation condition employed by the UE including the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate desired operation of the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices .

As an example of controlling the use of certain e.g. secure embedded and or proprietary functional blocks a user with the UE may be moving from one location to another location. The UE can initially have a two dimensional 2 D location detection functional block e.g. from the second subset of functional blocks that can perform 2 D location detection for the UE . The UE also can comprise a three dimensional 3 D location detection functional block of the first subset of functional blocks that can perform 3 D location detection wherein the 3 D location detection functional block can be turned off at the initial time or initial location based at least in part on network related conditions or traffic flow conditions associated with the UE at the initial time.

At a given point in time or at a given location based at least on network related information obtained or detected by the connection manager component and or an API s the connection manager component can determine that a desired enhanced operation condition can be to switch on the 3 D location detection functional block and to switch off the 2 D location detection functional block in accordance with the defined enhancement communication criteria. The connection manager component can update the policy data in the policy database or table to indicate that the desired enhanced operation condition can be to switch on the 3 D location detection functional block and to switch off the 2 D location detection functional block and or the connection manager component can communicate information indicating that the desired enhanced operation condition can be to switch on the 3 D location detection functional block to the kernel component and or the application and or the user. The kernel component can access the policy data in the policy database or table and or can receive the information relating to the enhanced operation condition from the connection manager component . Based at least in part on the policy data or corresponding information the kernel component can facilitate switching on the 3 D location detection functional block wherein the 3 D location detection functional block can perform 3 D location detection to facilitate determining and providing information regarding the 3 D location of the UE for presentation by the UE .

At another time or location the network related information may indicate that the network is congested e.g. has reached a defined level of congestion . Based at least in part on such network related information the connection manager component can determine that the 3 D location detection functional block is to be switched off to facilitate mitigating congestion in the communication network in accordance with the defined enhancement communication criteria as e.g. the 3 D location detection functional block can utilize more resources than the 2 D location detection functional block or no location detection for the UE . The connection manager component can update the policy data in the policy database or table to indicate that the desired updated enhanced operation condition can be to switch off the 3 D location detection functional block and to switch on the 2 D location detection functional block and or the connection manager component can communicate information indicating that the desired updated enhanced operation condition can be to switch off the 3 D location detection functional block to the kernel component and or the application and or the user. The kernel component can access the policy data in the policy database or table and or can receive the information relating to the updated enhanced operation condition from the connection manager component . Based at least in part on the policy data or corresponding information the kernel component can facilitate switching off the 3 D location detection functional block and switching on the 2 D location detection functional block wherein the 2 D location detection functional block can perform 2 D location detection to facilitate determining and providing information regarding the 2 D location of the UE for presentation by the UE .

As another example of controlling the use of certain e.g. secure embedded and or proprietary functional blocks at a given time under certain network related conditions or traffic flow conditions the UE can have a compression functional block switched on wherein the compression functional block can be part of the first subset of functional blocks and can perform various types of compression to facilitate compressing data being communicated by the UE . At the given time the compression functional block can employ a first type e.g. lower type of compression technique that compresses the data traffic at a lower level than a second type e.g. higher type of compression technique which can compress data traffic at a relatively higher level.

At a subsequent time the network related information may indicate that the network is congested e.g. has reached a defined level of congestion . Based at least in part on such network related information the connection manager component can determine that the compression functional block is to be switched from the first type of compression technique to the second type of compression technique to facilitate increasing the amount of data compression to facilitate mitigating congestion in the communication network in accordance with the defined enhancement communication criteria. The connection manager component can update the policy data in the policy database or table to indicate that the desired updated enhanced operation condition can be to switch or modify the compression functional block from the first type of compression technique to the second type of compression technique and or the connection manager component can communicate to the kernel component and or the application and or the user information indicating that the desired updated enhanced operation condition can be to switch or modify the compression functional block from the first type of compression technique to the second type of compression technique. The kernel component can access the policy data in the policy database or table and or can receive the information relating to the updated enhanced operation condition from the connection manager component . Based at least in part on the policy data or corresponding information the kernel component can facilitate switching or modifying the compression functional block from the first type of compression technique to the second type of compression technique.

Various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be employed to perform various tasks or achieve various desired performance. For instance the disclosed subject matter employing the kernel component and its associated embedded functional blocks and the connection manager component can facilitate enhancing the QOE of the user by adaptively controlling settings e.g. enhancement or optimization settings for example of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The disclosed subject matter employing the kernel component and its associated embedded functional blocks and the connection manager component can facilitate exposing contextual information relating to applications e.g. and or etc. and the communication network and or exposing certain algorithms aggregation of lower layer states as part of the disclosed cross layer design to facilitate enabling or exploiting various features of the applications e.g. intelligent applications . This can facilitate desirably e.g. optimally favorably acceptably controlling resources e.g. embedded functional blocks of the first subset to achieve desired e.g. optimal enhanced favorable acceptable performance of the UE and or the communication network .

The disclosed subject matter employing the kernel component and its associated embedded functional blocks and the connection manager component also can enable adaptive UE behaviors as a function of for example radio access type time of day network traffic conditions location of the UE and associated user etc. For instance the connection manager component and or the kernel component can operate as more fully disclosed herein to facilitate controlling the respective operation e.g. the respective switching states or modes of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks based at least in part on the radio access type the time of data network traffic conditions and or the location the UE and user etc. to facilitate desired e.g. optimal enhanced favorable acceptable performance of the UE and or the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. As an example during peak usage times of the day the connection manager component and or the kernel component can operate to adaptively control usage of the first subset of functional blocks to switch off or modify operation modes e.g. to a lower resource usage mode of certain functional blocks in the first subset to facilitate reducing congestion in the communication network. Whereas during non peak usage times of the day the connection manager component and or the kernel component can operate to adaptively switch on or modify operation modes e.g. to a higher resource usage mode of certain functional blocks in the first subset to facilitate enhancing or maximizing the performance of the UE or associated application s e.g. and or etc. e.g. while the communication network has the resources available to accommodate the increased use of resources by the UE in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The disclosed subject matter employing the kernel component and its associated embedded functional blocks and the connection manager component also can facilitate implementing dynamic QOS controls such as dynamic pricing dynamic filtering rules e.g. rules relating to data compression data security etc. etc. Network congestion in a communication network can tend to be localized and conventionally enforcing fairness among the various areas of a communication network can be difficult and or expensive. However the connection manager component and kernel component of the UE can facilitate operating to adaptively implement dynamic QOS controls based at least in part on the local network conditions in the communication network associated with the UE in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The disclosed subject matter also can employ one or more embedded clients e.g. at the firmware wherein the one or more embedded clients can be immune from attack. For example the functional blocks e.g. clients of the first subset of functional blocks can be embedded in the secure and trusted area of the UE so that they cannot be visible to or accessed by certain applications e.g. 3 party applications or other unauthorized applications certain UE components e.g. the OS kernel component or other unauthorized entities e.g. unauthorized and or 3 party communication service providers to facilitate securing the first subset of functional blocks from being attacked destroyed or taken over by the certain unauthorized applications unauthorized components or other unauthorized entities.

In accordance with the disclosed subject matter the connection manager component can manage e.g. adaptively manage data traffic volume or the length of connection time with the communication network based at least in part on the time of day type of service data traffic type and or other factors in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. For example the connection manager component can manage data traffic volume associated with an application used by the UE by adaptively controlling the respective operation e.g. switching states or modes of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to allow a higher volume of data traffic for the application during a non peak usage time of day for the communication network and to limit the volume of data traffic for the application to a relatively lower volume during a peak usage time of day for the communication network to facilitate mitigating network congestion during the peak usage time of day in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The disclosed subject matter employing the kernel component and its associated embedded functional blocks and the connection manager component can facilitate exposing sensors and network aware components e.g. accelerometers through open APIs to the kernel component wherein such sensors and network aware components typically are not available to the OS kernel component . The sensors or network aware components can sense detect or obtain information such as network related information or traffic flow related information that can be used by the connection manager component and or kernel component to facilitate adaptively controlling operation of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The kernel component and or the connection manager component also can enable extended self organizing network eSON functions to the UE . The kernel component and or the connection manager component can use some of the information obtained from the sensors or network aware components to facilitate enabling and utilizing eSON functions. Conventionally self organizing networks are typically limited to base stations and evolved packet cores and does not include UEs. The disclosed subject matter can extend the sensors network aware components and controls and can employ such extension to be complementary to the self organizing network of the base stations and the communication network e.g. the core network of the communication network . The self organizing network comprising the base station communication network and UE can employ eSON functions and adaptive control of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate adaptively enhancing operation of the base station and the communication network controlling the power level associated with the communication network etc. For example the kernel component and or the connection manager component can facilitate controlling operation e.g. switching or modes of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate enabling the communication network and or base station to adaptively and desirably e.g. optimally favorably acceptably control operation of the communication network and or base station e.g. control power levels control network congestion etc. in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices . The extended functions of the UE as part of the self organizing network can thereby facilitate enabling the communication network and or base station to achieve their respective optimization objectives.

Accordingly the kernel component and or the connection manager component can employ the sensors network aware components open APIs e.g. traffic load aware API s network congestion aware API s etc. etc. to facilitate preventatively and or reactively controlling traffic flow and or controlling network congestion associated with the communication network e.g. using suitable flow or congestion control methods or techniques . For example the kernel component and or the connection manager component can facilitate controlling operation of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate mitigating network congestion in the communication network . For instance the kernel component and or the connection manager component can facilitate controlling operation of a compression functional block to increase compression of the traffic flow and or an interference controller functional block to increase interference mitigation to facilitate controlling e.g. mitigating reducing network congestion in the communication network e.g. in response to a broadcast message obtained using an open API wherein the broadcast message indicates that the communication network has reached a defined threshold level of congestion for which congestion mitigation is desired.

The UE also can employ a network state notification API s and or an application state notification API s that respectively can facilitate enabling the kernel component and or the connection manager component to obtain notifications comprising information relating to the state of the communication network and or notifications comprising information relating to the state of an application e.g. . Based at least in part on the network state notifications and or the application state notifications the kernel component and or the connection manager component can facilitate controlling operation of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate enhancing operation of the UE and or the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The UE also can employ data delivery service APIs such as a time shift data delivery service API that can facilitate enabling the kernel component and or the connection manager component to control the delivery of data to the UE . For example in connection with a data delivery of content to the UE via the communication network wherein the delivery of the data is not time critical e.g. data delivery does not have to be immediate the kernel component and or the connection manager component can employ the time shift data delivery service API to obtain information that can facilitate determining a desirable e.g. suitable favorable optimal acceptable delivery time for delivery of the data to the UE in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The kernel component and or the connection manager component can facilitate adjusting the delivery time of the data delivery to have the data delivered to the UE at the desired delivery time instead of the originally scheduled delivery time. This can facilitate mitigating network congestion in the communication network as for instance data delivery of a large amount of data can be desirably scheduled to occur at a time when the communication network is typically less congested than the originally scheduled time for delivery of the data.

In some implementations the UE can utilize a flow classification algorithm s that can facilitate classifying the type of data associated with a communication session involving the UE and an application e.g. . For instance the connection manager component can employ a flow classification algorithm to facilitate analyzing traffic flow during a communication session associated with an application used by the UE to determine or classify the type of data e.g. video content audio content voice data textual data etc. in the traffic flow. Based at least in part on the type of data of the traffic flow the connection manager component can determine which functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks are to be switched on or switched off or are to have their operation modes changed in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. In accordance with the determination results the connection manager component can control operation of the functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate achieving desirable e.g. enhanced optimal favorable etc. operation of the UE and or the communication network e.g. in accordance with the desired optimization practices .

The UE also can perform short term network congestion and resource enhancement e.g. optimization by employing a micro shift method s or technique s longer term network congestion and traffic load balancing by employing policy and macro shift procedures and practices enhancement e.g. optimization of signaling over traffic load via aggregation and opportunistic delivery of data policy and charging engine management and or data delivery diversity triggers and events. For example employing a micro shift method s or technique s when the connection manager component becomes aware of a network congestion condition e.g. via an API as part of the cross layer design of the disclosed subject matter the connection manager component can instruct the lower layers to buffer data of the traffic flow by a desired e.g. defined or unspecified amount of time e.g. on the order of a millisecond a microsecond or other desired amount of time to micro shift the delivery of the data to or from the UE e.g. until a specified condition occurs by a random time delay or by a coordinated time delay e.g. a time delay as coordinated with the network .

Referring briefly to along with depicts a diagram of an example system that can employ a connection manager component to facilitate adaptively controlling resources e.g. functional blocks used for applications employed by communication devices e.g. UEs in a communication network in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. The system also can employ 3G 4G and wi fi technology to facilitate voice and data communications wherein 3G drivers 4G drivers and wi fi drivers can be used by the UE to facilitate communicating voice or data via a 3G 4G or wi fi wireless communication connection respectively.

The system also can comprise a resource manager component e.g. interconnect baseband manager that can be associated with the 3G drivers 4G drivers wi fi drivers and connection manager component . The resource manager component can facilitate controlling operation e.g. controlling switching or operational modes of the respective functional blocks e.g. embedded baseband functions of the set of functional blocks functional block functional block functional block etc. of the functional block component as more fully disclosed herein.

In accordance with various aspects and implementations the connection manager component can perform a variety of functions based at least in part on the connection manager component being aware of network related information and or traffic flow related information and exposing such information to various APIs e.g. which can be called to perform tasks to facilitate performing the various functions. For instance the connection manager component can interact with applications e.g. etc. and users of UEs e.g. via APIs controls components etc. e.g. network aware APIs controls components etc. as more fully disclosed herein. The connection manager component also can monitor the signal strength for each access network of the communication network to facilitate determining whether or when to make a hand off of the UE from one access network to another access network and or determining how the respective operations of the respective functional blocks are to be controlled in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The connection manager component also can facilitate triggering hand offs of the UE from one access network to another access network.

In some implementations the connection manager component can perform access arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different access networks to facilitate determining which access network the UE is to utilize link arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different communication links to facilitate determining which link the UE is to use to communicate traffic and or QOS arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different QOS requests associated with different traffic flows or applications to facilitate determining respective QOS parameters for the respective traffic flows or applications. The connection manager component also can perform data synchronization to synchronize data being respectively communicated using respective applications e.g. and or etc. employed by the UE .

The connection manager component also can provide network awareness to the applications e.g. etc. by providing e.g. presenting exposing communicating etc. network related information and or traffic flow related information to the applications e.g. etc. as more fully disclosed herein. The connection manager component further determine and generate recommendations for enhanced operation conditions e.g. in accordance with enhanced or optimized practices and can provide such recommendations for enhanced operation conditions to the applications and or users of the UEs as more fully disclosed herein.

The kernel component can be associated with a kernel interface component wherein the kernel component and kernel interface component can be well partitioned from other components e.g. OS kernel component of the UE and can be located in a secure and trusted area of the UE as more fully disclosed herein. The system also can comprise a policy application framework that can be employed to store policy data and other information that can facilitate adaptively controlling operation of the functional blocks e.g. embedded functional blocks and or other resources of the UE to facilitate desired operation of the UE and or the communication network as more fully disclosed herein. The policy data can comprise network related data and or traffic flow related data for example. The connection manager component can update the policy data based in part on additional or new network related data and or traffic flow related data received from various network aware APIs controls components etc.

The kernel component can access the policy data maintained in the policy database or table stored in a data store of the policy application framework via the kernel interface component . The kernel component can facilitate controlling operation of the respective functional blocks e.g. embedded functional blocks based at least in part on the policy data.

The system also can comprise a baseband service interface component that can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the kernel component via the kernel interface component and the connection manager component to facilitate enabling the connection manager component and kernel component to access or interact with the resource manager component long term evolution LTE drivers e.g. 4G drivers 3G drivers wi fi drivers and enhancement e.g. optimization embedded drivers . The resource manager component can be associated with and can facilitate managing various resources such as LTE resources 3G resources and wi fi resources wherein at least a portion of the resources can be functional blocks that can perform various types of functions e.g. data compression location detection data encryption etc. .

The connection manager component can be associated with an API component that can be or can comprise an application service interface and can make available various APIs e.g. open and or network aware APIs that can be employed to facilitate obtaining network related information and or traffic flow related information that can be used by the connection manager component and or kernel component to facilitate controlling and making determinations regarding operation of functional blocks such as the embedded functional blocks as more fully disclosed herein.

The system also can comprise a plurality of applications such as application application and application that can perform various functions or services e.g. process data present video or audio content communicate or receive voice or data etc. . The applications e.g. etc. can be associated with a service provisioning and activation layer or component which can be associated with the API component . Via the service provisioning and activation layer or component the applications e.g. etc. and or UE user can be exposed to or can access network related information and traffic flow related information such as the information obtained or derived by the APIs of the API component . The applications e.g. etc. and or UE user can review operation recommendations received from the connection manager component and or can make decisions or determinations regarding the operation of the application and or functional blocks as more fully disclosed herein.

In accordance with various implementations the resource manager component can facilitate exposing one or more APIs e.g. network aware APIs associated with the API component to an application e.g. or . The one or more APIs can facilitate enabling the application to obtain information regarding the communication network e.g. network conditions states notifications events triggers etc. and traffic flow e.g. traffic flow related conditions states notifications events triggers etc. . The application can interact with the resources such as the one or more functional blocks or other resources of the UE and or can obtain or receive information relating to the one or more functional blocks or other resources e.g. via a baseband module . For example the application can select interact and handshake with the baseband module to facilitate determining which functional block s or other resource s are available to the application determining which functional block s or other resource s to select and or determining desirable e.g. optimal best acceptable etc. operation e.g. desirable access desirable time desirable bandwidth etc. of the application and use of a functional block s or other resource s in connection with the application.

Based at least in part on the interaction and exchange of information with the application e.g. or the functional block e.g. baseband function or baseband module can facilitate communicating information e.g. network related information traffic flow related information etc. to the policy database stored in the data store of the policy application framework to facilitate determining and or providing desirable e.g. optimal best acceptable etc. operation parameters for the application functional block s employed by the application and or other resource s employed by the application. The application can determine select and or obtain e.g. retrieve the desirable e.g. optimal best acceptable etc. operation parameters for the application functional block s and or other resource s from the policy database of the policy application framework in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

In accordance with the desired operational parameters a communication connection can be established between the application e.g. or and the communication network. For example network entry e.g. standard network entry procedures can be performed to facilitate establishing a communication connection and a bearer s between the application and the communication network.

In response to a successful connection being established between the application and the communication network the connection manager component can communicate one or more notifications to the application to facilitate desirable operation of the application in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. For example the connection manager component can receive notifications and or other information from the communication network and can communicate such notifications and or other information or data relating thereto to the application. The one or more notifications can comprise for example a notification regarding the successful establishment of the connection between the application and the communication network notifications relating to network events notifications relating to network states notifications relating to network congestion notifications relating to network triggers etc.

The application e.g. or can communication various operational data relating to operation of the application including operation of the application in accordance with an enhanced operation condition to the connection manager component and the connection manager component can facilitate updating the policy database of the policy application framework based at least in part on the operational data received from the application. The application also can facilitate adapting its operations and its use of functional blocks and other resources of the UE based at least in part on network related information and traffic flow related information that the application can obtain or be made aware of via the one or more APIs of the API component in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The connection manager component can comprise a monitor component that can monitor or track activity behavior and or traffic flows e.g. voice or data traffic flows associated with the UE. The monitor component also can monitor or track network related conditions e.g. network state information network related triggers network related controls etc. associated with the communication network. The monitor component can monitor or track signal strength for each access network of the communication network.

The connection manager component can include an aggregator component that can aggregate data received e.g. obtained from various entities e.g. monitor component or another component s of the connection manager component communication network application a server or other communication device processor data store etc. . The aggregator component can correlate respective items of data based at least in part on type of data e.g. video content audio content textual data metadata etc. application to which the data relates source of the data time or date the data was generated or received etc. to facilitate analyzing of the data by the analyzer component . For example the aggregator component can aggregate data relating to an application and or other data e.g. data relating to the communication network to facilitate determining whether respective functional blocks e.g. embedded or secure functional blocks of a subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component are to be enabled e.g. switched to an on state or disabled e.g. switched to an off state in connection with the application.

The connection manager component can include the analyzer component which can analyze data to facilitate determining whether respective functional blocks of a subset of functional blocks e.g. associated with the kernel component are to be enabled or disabled generating a recommendation regarding the enabling or disabling of respective blocks in connection with an application controlling the enabling and disabling of respective functional blocks providing or exposing network related information and traffic flow related information to an application s or a user etc. and can generate analysis results based at least in part on the data analysis. For example the analyzer component can analyze information relating to network related information and traffic flow related information associated with the communication network and or UE and can generate analysis results that can facilitate determining whether respective functional blocks of a subset of functional blocks e.g. associated with the kernel component are to be enabled or disabled in connection with an application used by the UE.

The connection manager component can include an exposer component that can provide present or expose information to applications of the UE a user of the UE or various components of the UE. The exposer component can provide present or expose information relating to various functional blocks e.g. embedded or secure functional blocks that are available on the UE e.g. in the partitioned area of the UE via the kernel component to applications of the UE and or the UE user. The exposer component also can provide present or expose network related information e.g. network conditions network states network related notifications network events network triggers etc. and traffic flow related information e.g. traffic flow associated with the UE to applications of the UE and or the UE user.

The connection manager component can comprise an operation enhancement component that can facilitate determining whether respective functional blocks e.g. embedded or secure functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component are to be enabled or disabled in connection with the application based at least in part on analysis results relating to an analysis of the network related information and the traffic flow related information in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The operation enhancement component can facilitate controlling e.g. adaptively controlling the operation e.g. switching states or operational modes of the functional blocks based at least in part on a determination regarding whether respective functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component are to be enabled or disabled. The operation enhancement component can facilitate generating and sending to the kernel component instructions indicating respective switching states or operational modes that are to be used for respective functional blocks associated with the kernel component.

The operation enhancement component also can generate an operation enhancement recommendation relating to an enhanced operation condition e.g. a preferred enhanced operation condition and can facilitate sending the operation enhancement recommendation to an application or UE user for consideration. The operation enhancement recommendation can specify desirable e.g. preferred optimal enhanced favorable etc. respective switching states or operational modes that can be used for respective functional blocks associated with the kernel component in connection with an application in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The connection manager component also can comprise an API component that can comprise one or more APIs e.g. open or network aware APIs and or can interact with one or more APIs that can facilitate obtaining network related information and traffic flow related information. The APIs associated with the API component also can facilitate communicating or exposing the network related information and traffic flow related information to applications or users associated with the UE. For example the API component or another component of the connection manager component can call or initialize an API associated with the API component to facilitate having that API perform one or more functions that the API is configured to perform. The APIs can comprise for example a traffic load aware API s a network congestion aware API s a network state notification API s an application state notification API s a data delivery service API s e.g. a time shift data delivery service API and or other network aware APIs among other APIs that can be employed by or interacted with by the API component .

The connection manager component also can include a synchronization component that can perform data synchronization to synchronize data being respectively communicated using respective applications employed by the UE. For example the data synchronization can be performed with respect to data delivery in connection with an application wherein the connection manager component can facilitate scheduling data delivery e.g. adjusting scheduling of data delivery time shifting data delivery e.g. micro shifting data delivery macro shifting data delivery to or from the UE in connection with an application.

The connection manager component can comprise an authentication component that can facilitate authenticating the kernel component of the UE an application associated with the UE a user associated with the UE and or other entities or components associated with the UE based at least in part on respective credentials of the kernel component applications UE users or other entities or components associated with the UE. For instance the authentication component can perform authentication on the kernel component UE user and or application to facilitate determining whether access to and use of the subset of functional blocks e.g. embedded or secure functional blocks associated with the kernel component is to be permitted or granted to the UE user or application. The authentication component can request that the kernel component UE user or application provide authentication information e.g. a valid authentication credential a valid authentication or security token etc. that can indicate that the UE user or application is authorized to access and use the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component.

The authentication component can analyze the received authentication information and can compare such authentication information to stored authentication information e.g. stored in the data store to facilitate determining whether the received authentication information matches stored authentication information associated with e.g. mapped to the UE user or application. If the received authentication information matches the corresponding stored authentication information the authentication component can grant access rights to the UE user or application to use the subset of functional blocks wherein the kernel component can be employed to facilitate controlling the switching states or operational modes of the functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks in connection with operation of the application. If the received authentication information matches the corresponding stored authentication information the authentication component can deny use of the subset of functional blocks to the UE user or application and or the subset of functional blocks can remain invisible to the UE user application and or other components of the UE in the open area of the UE.

Access or use rights to the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component can be limited to users or applications associated with a particular communication service provider for example wherein if communication services are being provided to the UE via the particular communication service provider the subset of functional blocks can be available for use by the UE UE user or application and if communication services are being provided to the UE via another communication service provider the authentication component can restrict or deny access to and use of the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component. For instance the particular service provider can provide the kernel component with a token or other authentication information e.g. a security token or other authentication credential and the kernel component can provide that token to the connection manager component e.g. to the authentication component to facilitate authenticating the UE user application and or kernel component.

The connection manager component can include an arbitrator component that can arbitrate between respective features between respective functions between respective techniques between QOSs between respective links etc. For example the arbitrator component can perform access arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different access networks to facilitate determining which access network the UE is to utilize. The arbitrator component can perform link arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different communication links to facilitate determining which link the UE is to use to communicate traffic. The arbitrator component also can perform QOS arbitration to facilitate arbitrating between different QOS requests associated with different traffic flows or applications to facilitate determining respective QOS parameters for the respective traffic flows or applications.

The connection manager component can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. monitor component aggregator component analyzer component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the connection manager component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to applications users the communication network traffic flows APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication mappings policies defined communication enhancement criteria algorithms protocols interfaces tools and or other information to facilitate operation of the connection manager component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the connection manager component and other components e.g. communication network base station an application a server or other communication device a cloud etc. associated with the connection manager component .

The connection manager component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to applications users the communication network traffic flows APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication mappings policies defined communication enhancement criteria algorithms protocols interfaces tools and or other information to facilitate controlling operations associated with the connection manager component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the monitor component aggregator component analyzer component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the connection manager component .

The kernel component can comprise a communicator component that can facilitate controlling communication of data between the functional blocks associated with the kernel component and the connection manager component applications processor component and or data store etc. The communicator component also can facilitate controlling communication of data between dedicated memory associated with the kernel component and the connection manager component applications processor component and or data store etc. The communicator component further can facilitate controlling communication of data between a dedicated processor component or dedicated processor resources associated with the kernel component and the connection manager component applications processor component and or data store etc. The communicator component also can facilitate establishing secure communication between the kernel component and the communication network to facilitate desired e.g. proper acceptable enhanced optimal etc. cross layer enhancement or optimization practices in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria including practices or capabilities relating to for example compression and decompression of data rate shaping event notification to the communication and event notification from the communication network to UE subsystems or components of the UE.

The kernel component also can comprise an interface component that can facilitate providing various interfaces tools and or protocols to for example the connection manager component applications associated with the UE and or processor component etc. to facilitate enabling the kernel component and or the other components perform various functions that can facilitate enhancing the operation of the UE and the communication network including desirably and adaptively controlling operation of the functional blocks associated with the kernel component in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

The kernel component also can comprise an API component that can comprise or can interact with various APIs e.g. open or network aware APIs that can perform various functions and can facilitate obtaining network related information e.g. network conditions states notifications events triggers etc. and traffic flow related information e.g. traffic flow related conditions states notifications events triggers etc. associated with the communication network or UE. The APIs associated with the API component can facilitate communicating or exposing the network related information and traffic flow related information to applications or users associated with the UE. For example the API component or another component of or associated with the kernel component can call or initialize an API associated with the API component to facilitate having that API perform one or more functions that the API is configured to perform. The APIs can comprise for example a traffic load aware API s a network congestion aware API s a network state notification API s an application state notification API s a data delivery service API s e.g. a time shift data delivery service API and or other network aware APIs among other APIs that can be employed by or interacted with by the API component .

The kernel component can comprise a functional block manager component that can facilitate controlling operation of the respective functional blocks of a subset of functional blocks e.g. embedded secure or proprietary associated with the kernel component . For instance the functional block manager component can facilitate controlling the respective switching states e.g. on state off state or operational modes e.g. first type of operational mode second type of operational mode etc. of the respective functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The various functional blocks can perform respective functions e.g. data compression or decompression location detection data encryption or decryption interference mitigation etc. such as more fully described herein.

In some implementations the kernel component can include an authentication facilitator component that can comprise one or more tokens such as authentication or security tokens or authentication information that can facilitate controlling access to and use of the subset of functional blocks by applications and a UE user. For instance the one or more tokens or authentication information can be employed to facilitate authenticating the kernel component an application or a UE user with the connection manager component of the UE to facilitate enabling access to and use of the functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks during operation of the UE e.g. operation of an application associated with the UE in the communication network. In certain implementations access or use rights to the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component can be limited to users or applications associated with a particular communication service provider for example wherein if communication services are being provided to the UE via the particular communication service provider the subset of functional blocks can be available for use by the UE UE user or application and if communication services are being provided to the UE via another communication service provider access to and use of the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component can be restricted or prohibited. For example the particular service provider can provide the kernel component with a token or other authentication information e.g. a security token or other authentication credential and the kernel component can provide that token to the connection manager component to facilitate authenticating the UE user application and or kernel component .

The kernel component can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component interface component API component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the kernel component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to applications users the communication network traffic flows APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication policies defined communication enhancement criteria algorithms protocols interfaces tools and or other information to facilitate operation of the kernel component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the kernel component and other components e.g. connection manager component kernel interface component functional blocks communication network base station an application a server or other communication device a cloud etc. associated with the kernel component .

The kernel component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to applications users the communication network traffic flows APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication policies defined communication enhancement criteria algorithms protocols interfaces tools and or other information to facilitate controlling operations associated with the kernel component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the communicator component interface component API component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the kernel component .

The communication network can include the IP based network which can facilitate communications by communication devices e.g. UEs that are connected to the communication network via a wireless connection or a wireline or landline connection. For example a UE can be communicatively connected to the IP based network via a wireless communication connection with the core network wherein the UE can communicate with other communication devices connected to the communication network . A UE can transmit messages use applications access or download content etc. via the core network and or the IP based network or another communication network not shown .

The communication network can contain a network management component that can control operations and functions associated with the communication network . The network management component also can track and analyze information relating to resource usage by the communication network particularly the core network in relation to servicing the UE or other UEs resource usage by a UE associated with the communication network wireless state transitions associated with the UE or other UEs user behavior or activity application behavior or activity and or other factors to facilitate controlling operations and functions associated with the communication network . The network management component also can facilitate presenting or making available information e.g. network related information traffic flow related information etc. relating to the communication network to UEs associated with the communication network to facilitate enhanced operation of the UEs and the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The network management component can facilitate applying communication enhancement rules e.g. based on or corresponding to the defined communication enhancement criteria protocols and or algorithms to facilitate controlling and or enhancing operation of the communication network .

The communication network also can include a processor component that can work in conjunction with and or be part of the other components e.g. core network IP based network network management component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the communication network . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to wireless or wireline communications applications users network related conditions states or events traffic flow related conditions states or events network resources or functions a mapping and or other information to facilitate operation of the communication network as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the communication network and other components e.g. UE base station an application a server or other communication device a cloud etc. associated with the communication network .

The communication network also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to wireless or wireline communications applications users network related conditions states or events traffic flow related conditions states or events network resources or functions a mapping and or other information to facilitate controlling operations associated with the communication network . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the core network IP based network network management component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the communication network .

In another aspect the UE can include a multimode operation chipset s that can allow the UE to operate in multiple communication modes in accordance with disparate technical specification for wireless technologies. In an aspect multimode operation chipset s can utilize communication platform in accordance with a specific mode of operation e.g. voice GPS . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm.

In accordance with various implementations the UE can comprise a connection manager component an application component a resource manager component a functional block component e.g. comprising a first subset of functional blocks e.g. embedded or secure functional blocks and a second subset of functional blocks an OS kernel component a kernel interface component and a kernel component e.g. well partitioned and or dedicated kernel component . The respective components e.g. connection manager component application component resource manager component functional block component OS kernel component kernel interface component kernel component can comprise the respective features and functions such as more fully described herein.

The UE also can include a processor s that can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within the UE in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. The processor s can facilitate enabling the UE to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. The processor s also can facilitate enabling the UE to process data relating to messaging voice calls applications services wireless states users the communication network e.g. network related conditions states notifications events etc. traffic flows e.g. traffic flow related conditions states notifications events etc. APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication mappings defined communication enhancement criteria etc.

The UE also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structures e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes data relating to messaging voice calls applications services wireless states users the communication network e.g. network related conditions states notifications events etc. traffic flows e.g. traffic flow related conditions states notifications events etc. APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication mappings defined communication enhancement criteria and or other data user policies network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms etc. In an aspect the processor s can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. data structures code structures instructions algorithms data relating to messaging voice calls applications services wireless states users the communication network e.g. network related conditions states notifications events etc. traffic flows e.g. traffic flow related conditions states notifications events etc. APIs functional blocks determining whether to switch on or off or change operational modes of functional blocks authentication mappings defined communication enhancement criteria etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the communication platform multimode operation chipset s connection manager component application component resource manager component functional block component OS kernel component kernel interface component kernel component and or substantially any other operational aspects of the UE .

In an aspect coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux that can facilitate manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. The mux demux can multiplex information e.g. data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as for example time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM etc. In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod also can be part of the communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

The AP also can comprise a processor s that can be configured to confer and or facilitate providing functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in or associated with the AP . For instance the processor s can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. to facilitate between an associated UE and the communication network.

In another aspect the AP can include a data store that can store data structures code instructions rate coding information information relating to measurement of radio link quality or reception of information related thereto information relating to establishing a communications connection between a communication device e.g. UE and other communication devices system or device information like policies and specifications code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration access point deployment and frequency plans scheduling policies and so on. The processor s can be coupled to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. information relating to multiplexing demultiplexing or modulation demodulation information relating to radio link levels information relating to establishing communication connections associated with a UE s served by the AP etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality to the communication platform and or other operational components of AP .

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems and or devices described herein example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be further appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example a method disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with the subject specification. It should be further appreciated that the methods disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At activity behavior and or traffic flows associated with a communication device and network related conditions associated with the communication network can be monitored. The connection manager component can monitor or track the activity behavior and or traffic flows e.g. voice or data traffic flows associated with the communication device and network related conditions e.g. network state information network related triggers network related controls etc. associated with the communication network.

At the respective switching states of respective functional blocks of a subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component e.g. the dedicated kernel component can be controlled e.g. adaptively controlled based at least in part on the results of an analysis of information relating to activity behavior and or traffic flows associated with a communication device and network related conditions associated with the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The connection manager component can be associated with e.g. interfaced with the kernel component. The kernel component can be associated with the subset of functional blocks e.g. functional blocks comprising baseband functions wherein respective functional blocks can perform respective functions e.g. data compression or decompression data encryption or decryption location detection network awareness functions e.g. network condition sensing power level sensing etc. etc. The kernel component and the subset of functional blocks can be partitioned or placed in a secure and trusted area of the communication device so that they cannot be visible to or accessed by certain applications e.g. 3 party applications or other unauthorized applications or other unauthorized entities e.g. unauthorized and or 3 party communication service providers to facilitate securing the kernel component and the subset of functional blocks from being attacked destroyed or taken over by the certain applications or other unauthorized entities.

The communication device also can comprise a second subset of functional blocks that can be associated with the OS kernel component e.g. rich OS kernel component . The connection manager component OS kernel component and the second subset of functional blocks can be located in the open area of the communication device that is outside of the secure and trusted area e.g. zone of the communication device. In some implementations the open area of the communication device also can have a desired level of security wherein such desired level of security can be different from the security level of the secure and trusted area of the communication device.

The connection manager component can analyze or evaluate the activity behavior and or traffic flows associated with a communication device and the network related conditions associated with the communication network and can generate analysis results based at least in part on such analysis. As part of the analysis or evaluation the connection manager component can access and apply policy information e.g. communication enhancement policy information for example obtained from a policy database e.g. stored in a data store . The policy information can be based at least in part on the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. which can be in accordance with desired optimization practices .

The connection manager component can control the respective switching states of the respective functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks associated with the kernel component based at least in part on the analysis results in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. In some implementations based at least in part on the analysis results the connection manager component can generate control instructions or switching recommendations that can facilitate desirably switching on or off respective functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks to facilitate enhancing e.g. optimizing acceptably improving or augmenting etc. operation of the communication device and or the communication network. The connection manager component can communicate the control instructions or switching recommendations to the subset of functional blocks or a portion thereof via the kernel component to facilitate controlling the respective switching states of the respective functional blocks of the subset of functional blocks.

Referring next to depicted is a flow chart of an example method that can provide information regarding functional blocks of a communication device to facilitate controlling e.g. adaptively controlling functional blocks used by applications that are used by the communication device e.g. UE in a communication network in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. In accordance with various aspects the method can be utilized by for example a connection manager component and or a kernel component. In some implementations one or more operations of the method can be initiated or performed automatically e.g. by the connection manager component or in response to an occurrence of a triggering condition e.g. the user initiated an application or triggered an operation the application triggered an operation etc. .

At a set of functional blocks comprising a first subset of functional blocks of the communication device can be identified. The connection manager component can identify or determine the set of functional blocks of the communication device. Respective functional blocks of the set of functional blocks can comprise or perform respective functions e.g. baseband functions as more fully disclosed herein. The first subset of the functional blocks and the kernel component can reside in a partitioned area of the communication device. The partitioned area can be a secure and trusted area of the communication device wherein the first subset of the functional blocks and the kernel component can remain invisible to and access to the first subset of the functional blocks and the kernel component can be prohibited to certain applications e.g. 3 party applications or other unauthorized applications or other unauthorized entities e.g. unauthorized and or 3 party communication service providers to facilitate securing the kernel component and the first subset of functional blocks from being attacked destroyed or taken over by the certain applications or other unauthorized entities. The set of functional blocks also can comprise a second subset of functional blocks that can reside in an open area of the communication device wherein the second subset of functional blocks can be accessed by the OS kernel component for example.

At information relating to e.g. identifying the first subset of functional blocks can be provided e.g. exposed presented etc. to one or more applications associated with the communication device. The connection manager component can provide the information relating to the first subset of functional blocks to the one or more applications to facilitate notifying the one or more applications of the availability of the first subset of functional blocks on the communication device.

At selection information can be received from an application. The connection manager component can receive the selection information which can facilitate selection of a functional block s of the first subset of functional blocks from an application of the one or more applications.

At one or more functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks can be initialized e.g. switched on based at least in part on e.g. in response to the selection information in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. The connection manager component can facilitate switching on the one or more functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks based at least in part on the selection information in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria.

At a communication connection between the application and communication device and the communication network can be established. The connection manager component can facilitate establishing the communication connection between the application and communication device and the communication network to facilitate initiating a communication session associated with the application wherein the application can use the one or more functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks during the communication session. The communication connection can be a 3G 4G or wi fi communication connection for example. At this point the method can proceed to reference point A wherein for example proceeding from reference point A a method can facilitate controlling switching of functional blocks as more fully disclosed herein.

Turning to illustrated is a flow chart of an example method that can facilitate controlling e.g. adaptively controlling switching of functional blocks of a communication device in connection with an application used by the communication device in a communication network in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. In accordance with various aspects the method can be utilized by for example a connection manager component and or a kernel component. In some implementations the method can proceed from reference point A of the method .

At policy data can be updated with network related information. The connection manager component can update policy data e.g. stored in a policy table or database in a data store with network related information received or detected from the communication network. The network related information can comprise for example information relating to network related communication conditions e.g. network congestion level network state information e.g. network state change information network related triggers and or network related controls etc. associated with the communication network.

At at least a portion of the policy data e.g. updated policy data can be provided e.g. exposed presented etc. to an application associated with the communication device. The connection manager component can provide at least a portion of the policy data e.g. updated policy data to one or more applications associated with e.g. utilized by the communication device.

At the policy data e.g. updated policy data or a portion thereof can be analyzed. The connection manager component and or the application and or the kernel component can analyze the policy data or a portion thereof to facilitate determining whether a functional block s of the first subset of functional blocks is to be switched on or switched off.

At an enhanced operation condition can be determined based at least in part on the analysis results in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria. Based at least in part on the results of the analysis at the connection manager component and or the application and or the kernel component can determine the enhanced operation condition in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices . The enhanced operation condition can be associated with e.g. mapped to the switching on or switching off of respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks.

At information relating to the enhanced operation condition can be provided e.g. exposed presented communicated etc. to the application and or the user of the communication device. The connection manager component and or the kernel component can provide the information relating to the enhanced operation condition to the application and or the user via the user s communication device to facilitate controlling the switching on or switching off of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks.

At the respective switching of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks can be controlled e.g. adaptively controlled based at least in part on the information relating to the enhanced operation condition. The connection manager component can facilitate controlling the respective switching of the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks based at least in part on the information relating to the enhanced operation condition. Based at least in part on e.g. in response to receiving the information relating to the enhanced operation condition the kernel component and or the respective functional blocks can facilitate respectively switching on or off the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate desired operation of the communication device including the respective functional blocks and the communication network e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices .

At update information relating to the enhanced operation condition can be provided e.g. presented communicated etc. to the communication network to facilitate notifying the communication network that the communication device is operating in accordance with the enhanced operation condition. The connection manager component can provide the update information relating to the enhanced operation condition to the communication network e.g. the base station another component of the communication network via the base station . The communication network can use this information to facilitate implementing a desired network operational modification if any based at least in part on the enhanced operation condition employed by the communication device including the respective functional blocks of the first subset of functional blocks to facilitate desired operation of the communication network in accordance with the defined communication enhancement criteria e.g. in accordance with desired optimization practices .

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that this disclosure also can or may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone electronic tablets or pads etc. microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of this disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of this disclosure includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components shown and described in connection with or otherwise described herein. The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or nonvolatile random access memory RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM direct Rambus RAM DRRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. The disk storage also can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN cellular networks etc. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features and or advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology e.g. wi fi bluetooth worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX enhanced general packet radio service enhanced GPRS third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE third generation partnership project 2 3GPP2 ultra mobile broadband UMB 3GPP universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA high speed uplink packet access HSUPA GSM global system for mobile communications EDGE enhanced data rates for GSM evolution radio access network GERAN UMTS terrestrial radio access network UTRAN LTE advanced LTE A etc. Additionally some or all of the aspects described herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. the internet data service network such as internet protocol television IPTV etc. can exploit aspects or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in the subject specification can also be realized through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or storage media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD etc. smart cards and memory devices comprising volatile memory and or non volatile memory e.g. flash memory devices such as for example card stick key drive etc. or the like. In accordance with various implementations computer readable storage media can be non transitory computer readable storage media and or a computer readable storage device can comprise computer readable storage media.

As it is employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. A processor can be or can comprise for example multiple processors that can include distributed processors or parallel processors in a single machine or multiple machines. Additionally a processor can comprise or refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a programmable gate array PGA a field PGA FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a state machine a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Further processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

A processor can facilitate performing various types of operations for example by executing computer executable instructions. When a processor executes instructions to perform operations this can include the processor performing e.g. directly performing the operations and or the processor indirectly performing operations for example by facilitating e.g. facilitating operation of directing controlling or cooperating with one or more other devices or components to perform the operations. In some implementations a memory can store computer executable instructions and a processor can be communicatively coupled to the memory wherein the processor can access or retrieve computer executable instructions from the memory and can facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to perform operations.

In certain implementations a processor can be or can comprise one or more processors that can be utilized in supporting a virtualized computing environment or virtualized processing environment. The virtualized computing environment may support one or more virtual machines representing computers servers or other computing devices. In such virtualized virtual machines components such as processors and storage devices may be virtualized or logically represented.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component are utilized to refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components comprising a memory. It is to be appreciated that memory and or memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

As used in this application the terms component system platform framework layer interface agent and the like can refer to and or can include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

In another example respective components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor. In such a case the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts wherein the electronic components can include a processor or other means to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment UE mobile station mobile wireless device wireless communication device subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology are used herein to refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station node B evolved node B eNode B or eNB home node B HNB home access point HAP and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer owner agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As used herein the terms example exemplary and or demonstrative are utilized to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as an example exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. communication device UE AP communication network application connection manager component kernel component resource manager component functional block processor component data store etc. as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methods disclosed herein.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

