---

title: Developer carrying member, process for its production, and developing assembly
abstract: A developer carrying member is provided which can maintain a high image quality over a long period of time even where a highly triboelectrically chargeable developer is used. The developer carrying member has a substrate and a surface layer. The surface layer is a cured product of a resin composition containing a binder resin, conductive particles, a quaternary phosphonium salt and an azo metal complex compound, the binder resin has in the molecular structure at least one structure selected from the group consisting of an —NHgroup, an ═NH group and an —NH— linkage, and the azo metal complex compound is a compound represented by the formula (1) as defined in the specification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792810&OS=08792810&RS=08792810
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08792810
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130327
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2012 006988 filed Oct. 31 2012 which claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 239223 filed Oct. 31 2011.

This invention relates to a developer carrying member used in image forming apparatus such as copying machines and printers that utilize electrophotography a process for its production and a developing assembly making use of the developer carrying member.

In recent years in order to meet a demand for making electrophotographic images higher in image quality developers are being made smaller in particle diameter. Such developers having a small particle diameter come large in particle surface area per unit mass. Hence the developers tend to come to have a large surface electric charge during the step of development. Meanwhile in order to keep developers low consumable in quantity spherical particle developers have come to be used. Such developers have particle surfaces having been made smooth compared with merely pulverized particle developers and tend to be electrostatically charged in excess to tend to result in an unstable charge quantity. As the result they have a tendency to tend to cause faulty images such as sleeve ghost and density non uniformity.

In Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. H5 346727 a method is reported in which an iron complex compound is added to a surface layer of a developer carrying member so as to control the charge quantity of a developer.

In Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2010 055072 a developer carrying member is disclosed which has a surface layer containing a specific quaternary phosphonium salt and a specific resin and a method is reported by which developers made spherical particle and negatively chargeable developers produced by polymerization are prevented from any excess charging such as charge up.

However Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. H5 346727 is what aims to improve developing performance by promoting the triboelectric charging for a developer. Hence it has sometimes come about that a readily chargeable developer is rather made to more undergo charge up thus it has been impossible in some cases to keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and thereby form good images.

As for the developer carrying member disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2010 055072 it can keep a developer from undergoing charge up and can have a further stable charge providing performance. However especially where the quaternary phosphonium salt is added in a large quantity in order to keep a readily chargeable developer from being charged in excess the surface layer increases in volume resistivity to tend to cause sleeve ghost. Also the surface layer may come to have a low wear resistance thus a further improvement has been sought.

Further in recent years there are increasing needs for electrophotographic apparatus to maintain image density in their continuous service to keep sleeve ghost from occurring and to keep blotches spotty images or wave pattern images caused by faulty triboelectric charge providing to a developer from occurring. Under such circumstances it is sought to make further improvement for the controlling of triboelectric charging of the developer carrying member surface during the continuous service.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to providing a developer carrying member on the surface of which a developer can be made stable by controlling its triboelectric charging and which can maintain a high image quality over a long period of time even where a highly triboelectrically chargeable developer is used and provide a process for producing such a developer carrying member.

Further the present invention is directed to providing a developing assembly which contributes to stable formation of high grade electrophotographic images over a long period of time.

According to the present invention there is provided a developer carrying member having a substrate and a surface layer 

wherein the surface layer is a cured product of a resin composition containing a binder resin conductive particles a quaternary phosphonium salt and an azo metal complex compound and wherein 

the binder resin has in the molecular structure at least one structure selected from the group consisting of an NHgroup an NH group and an NH linkage and the azo metal complex compound is a compound represented by the following formula 1 

In the formula 1 X X Xand Xeach independently represent a substituted or unsubstituted phenylene group a substituted or unsubstituted naphthylene group or a substituted or unsubstituted pyrazolene group M represents Fe Cr or Al and J represents a cation. A substituent the phenylene group the naphthylene group and the pyrazolene group may each independently have is at least one selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s a nitro group a halogen atom an anilide group which may have a substituent and a phenyl group which may have a substituent where the substituent the anilide group and the phenyl group may each independently have is at least one selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s and a halogen atom.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a developing assembly which has at least a negatively chargeable developer a developer container in which the negatively chargeable developer is held a developer carrying member supported rotatably which carries and transports the negatively chargeable developer thereon and a developer layer thickness regulating member for regulating the layer thickness of a negatively chargeable developer layer formed on the developer carrying member 

According to further aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for producing a developer carrying member having a substrate and a surface layer comprising the steps of 

forming on the substrate a coat of a coating material containing at least a binder resin having in the molecular structure at least one structure selected from the group consisting of an NHgroup an NH group and an NH linkage conductive particles a quaternary phosphonium salt and an azo metal complex compound represented by the above formula 1 and curing the coat to form the surface layer.

According to the present invention a developer carrying member can be obtained on the surface of which a developer can be made stable by controlling its triboelectric charging and which can maintain a high image quality over a long period of time even where a highly triboelectrically chargeable developer is used.

According to the present invention a developing assembly can also be obtained which contributes to stable formation of high grade electrophotographic images.

Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

The developer carrying member according to the present invention has a substrate and a surface layer and in addition thereto may have e.g. an intermediate layer e.g. an elastic layer between the substrate and the surface layer. The developer carrying member of the present invention may be used as a developer carrying member used in electrophotographic apparatus a developer carrying member for electrophotographic apparatus . The surface layer may also be formed directly on the surface of the substrate. The developer carrying member of the present invention is described below in detail.

As the substrate any substrate known in the field of the developer carrying member may be used and its shape may appropriately be selected from shapes of a hollow cylinder a solid column a belt and the like. As this substrate a substrate may be used which is obtained by shaping a non magnetic metal such as aluminum stainless steel or brass into a hollow cylinder or solid column followed by polishing or grinding.

The surface layer is a cured product of a resin composition containing a binder resin conductive particles a quaternary phosphonium salt and an azo metal complex compound represented by the above formula 1 . Here this binder resin has in its molecular structure at least one structure linkage selected from the group consisting of an NHgroup an NH group and an NH linkage. The resin composition may also contain other additive s such as unevenness providing particles described later.

The developer carrying member of the present invention has the surface layer constituted as above and this enables the developer to be kept from being triboelectrically charged in excess where a negatively chargeable developer is used. Hence this enables such a negatively chargeable developer to be stably provided with proper triboelectric charges. As the result even where a developer more highly triboelectrically chargeable than conventional ones is used the developer can achieve triboelectric charge quantity having been made proper over a long period of time and hence can enjoy a good developing performance.

Incidentally as to a developer carrying member having a surface layer formed by using a resin composition having the same formulation as the above except that the quaternary phosphonium salt is not used the effect of keeping the highly triboelectrically chargeable developer from undergoing the charge up has been found to be low. On the other hand as to a developer carrying member having a surface layer formed by using a resin composition having the same formulation as the above except that the azo metal complex compound is not used the effect of keeping the highly triboelectrically chargeable developer from undergoing the charge up has been found to be obtained to a certain extent.

However the developer carrying member having the surface layer formed by using a resin composition containing the binder resin the quaternary phosphonium salt the azo metal complex compound and the conductive particles has brought a much greater effect of keeping the developer from being charged in excess than when compared with the above two cases and has been found to be remarkably effective in making the developer stable in its triboelectric charge quantity.

This effect is so much great as not to be explainable from the result obtained when either of the quaternary phosphonium salt and the azo metal complex compound is used as stated above and is considered to be brought out by a synergetic effect of these materials. The mechanism by which the effect of keeping the developer from being charged in excess is so much great that is brought out by the combination of these materials was examined in the following way.

First a surface layer made up by using the binder resin the azo metal complex compound and the conductive particles but without using the quaternary phosphonium salt was immersed in an organic solvent such as chloroform in which the azo metal complex compound was soluble to allow the azo metal complex compound to be extracted. As the result the azo metal complex compound dissolved out in a quantity that was very small with respect to the quantity of the azo metal complex compound added.

This is because the azo metal complex compound came to be incorporated in the binder resin as part of a polymer with the curing of the binder resin as so considered.

Subsequently a surface layer made up by using the binder resin the quaternary phosphonium salt the azo metal complex compound and the conductive particles was likewise immersed in the organic solvent to allow the azo metal complex compound to be extracted. As the result the azo metal complex compound came much extracted by tens of times to hundreds of times the above case where the quaternary phosphonium salt was not added to the resin composition. This quantity in which the azo metal complex compound dissolved out was very large even when the quantities of the quaternary phosphonium salt and azo metal complex compound having been added are taken into account.

This is because though both the azo metal complex compound and the quaternary phosphonium salt came to be incorporated in the binder resin as part of a polymer with the curing of the binder resin the quaternary phosphonium salt combines with the binder resin preferentially in the presence of the binder resin having a specific structure as so considered. The reason why the quaternary phosphonium salt combines with the binder resin preferentially to the azo metal complex compound is not known in detail and it is considered that this makes it easy for the azo metal complex compound to be present singly in the surface layer. As the result the azo metal complex compound which is ionic comes much present singly in the surface layer and this prevents the surface layer from increasing in its volume resistance and makes the developer greatly kept from being charged in excess as so considered. Then as the result this enables faulty images such as sleeve ghost stains and blotches to be kept from occurring.

The fact that the azo metal complex compound is much present singly in the surface layer is evident from the fact that the azo metal complex compound came much extracted into the organic solvent from the surface layer made up by using the binder resin the quaternary phosphonium salt the azo metal complex compound and the conductive particles in combination.

The resin composition containing the binder resin the quaternary phosphonium salt the azo metal complex compound and the conductive particles is also very superior in storage stability. This is because the quaternary phosphonium salt is so highly compatible with the binder resin as to make the azo metal complex compound not easily dissolve therein and hence they are low reactive at normal temperature thereby making the resin composition not easily cause any change in its viscosity or any agglomeration of particles therein during its long term storage as so considered. Thus any seeding may less occur in coating promising a superior coating stability even where the resin composition used in the present invention is used in a coating material after its long term storage.

The binder resin is one having at least one structure selected from the group consisting of an NHgroup an NH group and an NH linkage hereinafter also called NHn structure in some cases . Having the NHn structure in the molecular structure enables blotches ghost and the like to be kept from occurring which are considered to be caused by excess triboelectric charging of the developer.

As specific examples of this binder resin it may include the following Polyurethane resins polyamide resins melamine resins guanamine resins epoxy resins making use of polyamide as a curing agent phenol resins having the NHn structure and resins having the NHn structure outside the backbone chain such as urethane modified epoxy resins.

Of these the phenol resins having the NHn structure may particularly preferably be used because it promises a high hardness of the layer having been cured and also is highly effective when used in combination. Such a phenol resin may include phenol resins produced by using a nitrogen containing compound such as ammonia as a catalyst in their production steps and may preferably be used. The nitrogen containing compound that is a catalyst participates directly in polymerization reaction and exists in the phenol resin even after the reaction has been completed. It is commonly ascertained that when e.g. polymerized in the presence of an ammonia catalyst an intermediate called an ammonia resol is formed which exists in the phenol resin even after the reaction has been completed as a structure as represented by the following formula 4 .

The nitrogen containing compound used in producing the above phenol resins may be either of acidic and basic which may preferably be used.

The binder resin in the resin composition used to form the surface layer a surface layer forming resin composition may preferably be in a content of 50 by mass or more from the viewpoint of the retention of a pigment to a resin layer and 80 by mass or less from the viewpoint of resistance control of the resin layer. Also in regard to the binder resin its structure may be analyzed by making analysis with an analyzer for IR infrared absorption spectroscopy NMR nuclear magnetic resonance or the like.

The quaternary phosphonium salt is necessary to stabilize the triboelectric charge providing performance for developer of the developer carrying member according to the present invention. Its structure may preferably be from the viewpoint of keeping the developer from being charged in excess be a salt compound represented by the following formula 3 .

In the formula 3 Zto Zeach independently represent an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group a substituted or unsubstituted naphthyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted benzyl group. Q represents an anion.

It is also preferable that at least three functional groups of Zto Zare any of the substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group the substituted or unsubstituted naphthyl group and the substituted or unsubstituted benzyl group. This enables easy improvement of dispersion uniformity of the quaternary phosphonium salt in the binder resin e.g. a phenol resin having the NHn structure . The substituents the phenyl group the naphthyl group and the benzyl group may each independently have may include e.g. a halogen group a nitro group a sulfo group and an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s .

Qin the formula 3 may be e.g. an anion selected from a halogen ion OHand an organic acid ion. This organic acid ion may include organic sulfate ions organic sulfonate ions organic phosphate ions molybdate ions tungstate ions and heteropolyacid ions containing molybdenum atoms or tungsten atoms. Also in view of an advantage that as the developer carrying member it can keep the developer from being charged in excess when the quaternary phosphonium salt is mixed with the other materials to form the surface layer it is preferable for Q to be a halogen ion or OH.

Quaternary phosphonium salts preferably usable in the present invention are enumerated in Tables 1 1 and 1 2 below to which however the present invention is by no means limited. In the following Tables 1 1 and 1 2 Ph group refers to a phenyl group.

In general the quaternary phosphonium salt is used as a positively charging charge control agent that is to make a positively chargeable developer have a high charge quantity. In the present invention however the quaternary phosphonium salt is used in combination with the binder resin described above and this enables the following. That is this acts in the direction of moderating the positively charging properties of the quaternary phosphonium salt itself and can remarkably bring out the effect of keeping the positively chargeable developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess that is to be brought by the addition of the azo metal complex compound.

The surface layer forming resin composition may preferably have the quaternary phosphonium salt in an amount of from 0.1 part by mass or more to 20 parts by mass or less based on 100 parts by mass of the binder resin. Its addition in an amount of 0.1 part by mass or more can easily bring out the effect of keeping the developer from being charged in excess and its addition in an amount of 20 parts by mass or less can easily keep the developer from being charged in excess while keeping the surface layer durable.

The presence of such a quaternary phosphonium salt may be identified by e.g. a method in which a sample taken from the surface layer of the developer carrying member by cutting or by extraction with a solvent such as chloroform is analyzed with a GC MS gas chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS liquid chromatography mass spectrometry or the like analytical instrument.

In the present invention the azo metal complex compound represented by the following formula 1 is contained in the surface layer. This is necessary to provide the developer with proper triboelectric charges.

In the formula 1 X X Xand Xeach independently represent a substituted or unsubstituted phenylene group a substituted or unsubstituted naphthylene group or a substituted or unsubstituted pyrazolene group. M represents Fe Cr or Al. J represents a cation.

A substituent the phenylene group the naphthylene group and the pyrazolene group may each independently have is at least one selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s a nitro group a halogen atom an anilide group which may have a substituent and a phenyl group which may have a substituent. The substituent the anilide group and the phenyl group may each independently have is at least one selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s and a halogen atom.

The counter ion Jin the formula 1 may include e.g. H an alkali metal ion NH an alkyl ammonium ion and a mixed ion of any of these. Also from the viewpoint of keeping the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess J may preferably be H.

Of what is represented by the formula 1 it is particularly preferable to contain in the surface layer an azo metal complex compound represented by the following formula 2 in order to make the developer carrying member improved in its environmental stability in a high temperature and high humidity environment and in a low temperature and low humidity environment.

In the formula 2 A Aand Aeach independently represent a hydrogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s or a halogen atom. Brepresents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atom s . M represents Fe Cr or Al. J represents a cation.

Any detailed reason is unclear why the use of the azo metal complex compound represented by the formula 2 makes the developer carrying member improved in its environmental stability and it is considered that this is because the azo metal complex compound as having pyrazolone rings in the ligands changes in its polarity to come kept from having water absorption properties.

As M in the formula 2 it may particularly preferably be Fe or Cr. Setting the coordination metal to be Fe or Cr makes the azo metal complex compound improved in its dispersibility in the binder resin and this can easily keep the developer from being charged in excess stably over a long period of time.

The counter ion J in the formula 2 may be like that in the formula 1 H an alkali metal ion NH an alkyl ammonium ion or a mixed ion of any of these and may preferably be H.

The azo metal complex compound used in the present invention may preferably be used after its volume average particle diameter has been controlled to from 0.1 m or more to 20 m or less and much preferably from 0.1 m or more to 10 m or less. Controlling this volume average particle diameter to from 0.1 m or more to 20 m or less enables the azo metal complex compound to be uniformly dispersed with ease and this makes the surface layer have a uniform triboelectric charge providing performance and can easily keep the image density from coming non uniform as being preferable.

The surface layer forming resin composition may preferably have the azo metal complex compound in an amount of from 1 part by mass or more to 40 parts by mass or less and much preferably from 5 parts by mass or more to 40 parts by mass or less based on 100 parts by mass of the binder resin. Its addition in an amount of 1 part by mass or more can easily keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and its addition in an amount of 40 parts by mass or less can easily keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess while keeping the surface layer durable.

The presence of such an azo metal complex compound may also be identified by e.g. a method in which a sample taken from the surface layer of the developer carrying member by cutting or by extraction with a solvent such as chloroform is analyzed with a GC MS LC MS or the like analytical instrument.

About how to produce the azo metal complex compound used in the present invention it may be produced by any known azo metal complex compound production method. A typical production method is described below.

First to an amine component such as 4 chloro 2 aminophenol a mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid is added where after the liquid temperature has come to 5 C. or less sodium nitrite dissolved in water is dropwise added while maintaining the liquid temperature at 10 C. or less. The mixture obtained is stirred at 10 C. or less for 30 minutes or more to 3 hours or less to carry out reaction to make this amine component into a diazo form to obtain a diazo compound. Then to the reaction solution obtained sulfamic acid is added and potassium iodide starch paper is used to make sure that any nitric acid does not remain in excess in the reaction system.

Next separately a coupling component such as 3 methyl 1 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 pyrazolone an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution sodium carbonate and an organic solvent such as n butanol are stirred mixed at room temperature. To the solution obtained the above diazo compound is added and these are stirred at room temperature for several hours to carry out coupling reaction. After the stirring resorcinol is added to the reaction solution to make sure that no reaction takes place between the diazo compound and the resorcinol where the reaction is set to be completed. To the reaction solution obtained water is added and thereafter these are thoroughly stirred and then left to stand followed by separation. An aqueous sodium hydroxide solution is further added followed by stirring washing and then separation to obtain a monoazo compound.

The amine component and the coupling component may be used under appropriate selection in accordance with the molecular structure of the desired azo metal complex compound. As an organic solvent other than the n butanol used in carrying out the coupling any solvent usable in carrying out the coupling is available and monohydric alcohol dihydric alcohol or a ketone type organic solvent is preferred. The monohydric alcohol may include e.g. methanol ethanol n propanol 2 propanol isobutyl alcohol sec butyl alcohol n amyl alcohol isoamyl alcohol and ethylene glycol monoalkyl ethers the alkyl group of which has 1 to 4 carbon atoms . The dihydric alcohol may include e.g. ethylene glycol and propylene glycol. The ketone type one may include e.g. methyl ethyl ketone and methyl isobutyl ketone.

Next metal complexing reaction is carried out. To a n butanol solution of the above monoazo compound water salicylic acid n butanol and sodium carbonate are added and these are stirred. Where e.g. iron is used as the coordination metal an aqueous ferric chloride solution and sodium carbonate are added. The liquid temperature is raised to 30 C. or more to 40 C. or less where the reaction is started and then the reaction is followed up by TLC thin layer chromatography . After 5 hours and within 10 hours from the start of the reaction the TLC is used to make sure that raw material spots have disappeared where the reaction is set to be completed. After the stirring has been stopped the reaction system is left to stand to effect separation. Further water n butanol and an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution are added to carry out alkali washing. Filtration is carried out and a solid cake is taken out followed by washing with water.

Where any desired counter ion is to be provided for example sodium hydroxide is added to water and these are stirred while being heated until the mixture obtained has come to have an internal temperature of 85 C. or more to 90 C. or less where a liquid dispersion of the above cake is dropwise added thereto. This is stirred at 97 C. or more to 99 C. or less for 1 hour followed by cooling and filtration and thereafter the cake is washed with water. Then the product obtained may sufficiently be dried by vacuum drying to obtain the azo metal complex compound usable in the present invention.

The conductive particles may be used under appropriate selection of any conductive particles known in the field of the developer carrying member. Such conductive particles may include e.g. fine powders of metals such as aluminum copper nickel and silver particles of conductive metal oxides such as antimony oxide indium oxide tin oxide titanium oxide zinc oxide molybdenum oxide and potassium titanate crystalline graphite all kind of carbon fibers and conductive carbon black such as furnace black lamp black thermal black acetylene black and channel black and may include metal fibers. Any of these may also be used alone or in combination of two or more types.

Of these carbon black and graphite are particularly preferable because of their superior dispersibility and superior electrical conductivity. Of these conductive amorphous carbon is preferable because it has especially superior electrical conductivity may be filled in high molecular materials to provide them with conductivity and can achieve any desired conductivity to a certain degree by merely controlling its amount when added. Also in virtue of a thixotropic effect obtained when it is used in a coating material it can improve dispersion stability and coating stability.

The conductive particles may preferably have a volume average particle diameter of 10 nm or more from the viewpoint of dispersion stability and 20 m or less from the viewpoint of resistance uniformity of the resin composition.

The conductive particles in the surface layer forming resin composition may preferably be in a content of from 1 part by mass or more to 100 parts by mass or less based on 100 parts by mass of the binder resin which may differ depending on their particle diameter. As long as they are in a content of 1 part by mass or more the surface layer can easily be improved in making it low in resistance and inasmuch as they are in a content of 100 parts by mass or less the resistance can easily be lowered to a preferable value without greatly lowering the strength wear resistance of the conductive resin.

The resin composition may preferably be incorporated with unevenness providing particles for forming surface unevenness from the viewpoints of providing the surface layer with uniform surface roughness and maintaining its proper surface roughness. The unevenness providing particles need not have any conductivity and are added for the purpose of forming an unevenness profile on the surface of the resin composition surface layer. The unevenness providing particles may preferably have a volume average particle diameter of 1 m or more from the viewpoint of providing the unevenness and 30 m or less from the viewpoint of maintaining the wear resistance of the resin composition surface layer. In the surface layer forming resin composition the unevenness providing particles may also preferably be added thereto in an amount of 5 parts by mass or more from the viewpoint of the effect to be brought by their addition and 100 parts by mass or less from the viewpoint of maintaining wear resistance based on 100 parts by mass of the binder resin.

The surface layer may preferably have a layer thickness of from 4 m or more to 50 m or less and particularly preferably from 6 m or more to 30 m or less. As being 4 m or more the surface layer can easily cover the substrate and hence the effect of forming the surface layer can easily be obtained and as being 50 m or less the roughness of the surface layer can easily be controlled by the materials to be added thereto.

The surface layer may preferably have a volume resistivity of from 1 10 cm or more to 1 10 cm or less and particularly preferably from 1 10 cm or more to 1 10 cm or less. As long as it has a volume resistivity of from 1 10 cm or more to 1 10 cm or less it is easy to make resistance control by the addition of the conductive particles to the surface layer.

The developer carrying member surface i.e. the surface layer may preferably have a surface roughness as arithmetic mean roughness Ra prescribed in JIS B 0601 2001 of from 0.15 m or more to 3.00 m or less. As being 0.15 m or more to 3.00 m or less this can easily bring out a transport power satisfactory as the developer carrying member.

In particular in a developing assembly shown in as will be described later as making use of a magnetic developer and having as a developer layer thickness regulating member a magnetic blade disposed leaving a gap between it and a developer carrying member it is also desirable for the above Ra to be from 0.15 m or more to 2.50 m or less. Setting it within this range can easily achieve good developing performance.

Further in the case of developing assemblies as shown in in which an elastic member is used in pressure contact with a developer carrying member it is preferable for the surface layer to have a surface roughness Ra of from 0.30 m or more to 3.00 m or less. Setting it within this range can easily bring out a transport power satisfactory as the developer carrying member.

In the process for producing the developer carrying member of the present invention a coat of a coating material containing at least the binder resin conductive particles quaternary phosphonium salt and azo metal complex compound described above is formed on the surface of the substrate and the coat formed is cured or may be dried to harden to form the surface layer. Here when the materials for forming the surface layer are mixed it is preferable to disperse and mix these materials in a solvent to make up a coating material which is coated on the surface of the substrate. In making the surface layer it is preferable to use a coating material prepared by mixing the binder resin the conductive particles the quaternary phosphonium salt and the azo metal complex compound in a solvent in which the binder resin is soluble as exemplified by methanol or isopropyl alcohol .

To disperse and mix the above materials a known media dispersion system such as a ball mill a sand mill an attritor or a bead mill or a known medialess dispersion system that utilizes impact atomization or thin film spin methodology may preferably be used. Also as a method of coating the coating material obtained it may include known methods such as dipping spraying roll coating electrostatic coating and ring coating. As a curing method it may include e.g. heat curing.

The developing assembly making use of the developer carrying member of the present invention is described next by giving examples of embodiments which however are by no means limited to the following embodiments. The developing assembly of the present invention has at least a negatively chargeable developer a developer container a developer carrying member and a developer layer thickness regulating member and as this developer carrying member the developer carrying member of the present invention as described above is used.

Meanwhile the magnetic one component developer is sent into the developer container from a developer supply container not shown via a developer feed member . The developer container is divided into a first chamber and a second chamber where the magnetic one component developer having been sent into the first chamber is sent to the second chamber by the aid of an agitating transport member passing through an opening formed by the developer container and a partition member . The second chamber is provided therein with an agitating transport member for preventing the developer from stagnating.

In this developing assembly first the magnetic one component developer held in the developer container is held on the developer carrying member by the magnetic force of the magnet roller has and a developer layer is formed on the developer carrying member by the aid of a developer layer thickness regulating member . Then by the rotation of the developer carrying member in the direction of an arrow A the developer on the developer carrying member is transported to a developing zone C where the developer carrying member and an electrostatic latent image bearing member photosensitive drum face each other. Then an electrostatic latent image formed on the electrostatic latent image bearing member is developed with the developer to form a developer image thereon. During this course the photosensitive drum is rotated in the direction of an arrow B.

The magnetic one component developer gains triboelectric charges which enable development of the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum as a result of the friction between magnetic developer particles one another and between these and the surface layer at the surface of the developer carrying member. In order to regulating the thickness of the developer transported to the developing zone C a magnetic blade is fitted which is made of a ferromagnetic metal serving as the developer layer thickness regulating member. The magnetic blade is fitted to the developer container usually in such a way as to face the developer carrying member leaving a gap of from 50 m or more to 500 m or less from the surface of the developer carrying member . The magnetic line of force exerted from the magnetic pole N of the magnet roller is converged to the magnetic blade whereby a thin layer of the magnetic one component developer is formed on the developer carrying member . Incidentally in the present invention a non magnetic developer layer thickness regulating member may also be used in place of the magnetic blade .

From the viewpoint of high image quality the thickness of the magnetic one component developer layer thus formed on the developer carrying member may preferably be smaller than the minimum gap between the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum in the developing zone C.

It is effective for the developer carrying member of the present invention to be set in a developing assembly of a system in which electrostatic latent images are developed with the magnetic one component developer as above i.e. a non contact developing assembly.

In order to cause to fly the magnetic one component developer held on the developer carrying member a development bias voltage is applied to the developer carrying member by a development bias power source serving as a bias applying means. When a direct current voltage is used as this development bias voltage it is preferable to apply to the developer carrying member a voltage which corresponds to a value intermediate between the potential at image areas of the electrostatic latent image the region rendered visible upon attraction of the developer and the potential at back ground areas.

In order to enhance the density of images to be formed by development and improve the gradation thereof an alternating bias voltage may be applied to the developer carrying member to form in the developing zone C a vibrating electric field whose direction alternately reverses. In such a case an alternating bias voltage formed by superimposing thereon a direct current voltage component having a value intermediate between the potential at developing image areas and the potential at back ground areas as above may preferably be applied to the developer carrying member .

This elastic blade may be composed of e.g. a material having rubber elasticity such as urethane rubber or silicone rubber or a material having metal elasticity such as bronze or stainless steel. Incidentally the pressure at which the elastic blade is in touch with the developer carrying member may be a linear pressure of from 4.9 10N cm or more to 4.9 10N cm or less and this is preferable in view of advantages that the magnetic one component developer can be provided with an appropriate triboelectric charge quantity and the thickness of the magnetic developer layer can appropriately be regulated.

Inside a developer container an agitating transport member for agitating and transporting a non magnetic one component developer is provided.

A developer feed stripping member for feeding the developer to the developing sleeve and also stripping off the developer remaining on the surface of the developing sleeve after development is kept in contact with the developing sleeve . As the developer feed stripping member developer feed stripping roller is rotated in the same direction as the developing sleeve the direction of A the surface of the developer feed stripping roller moves in the direction counter to reverse direction of the surface movement of the developing sleeve . Thus the non magnetic one component developer is fed onto the developing sleeve inside the developer container .

The developing sleeve carries the non magnetic one component developer thus fed and is rotated in the direction of an arrow A to transport the non magnetic one component developer to a developing zone C where the developing sleeve and the photosensitive drum face each other. The layer thickness of the non magnetic one component developer held on the developing sleeve is regulated by a developer layer thickness regulating member coming into pressure touch with the surface of the developing sleeve through the developer layer.

The non magnetic one component developer gains triboelectric charges that are enough to develop the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum as a result of its friction with the developing sleeve . In the following description to avoid complicacy of description a non contact developing assembly is taken as an example.

In order to cause to fly the non magnetic one component developer held on the developing sleeve a development bias voltage is applied to the developing sleeve from a development bias power source . When a direct current voltage is used as this development bias voltage a voltage having a value intermediate between the potential at electrostatic latent image areas the region rendered visible upon attraction of the non magnetic developer and the potential at back ground areas may preferably be applied to the developing sleeve . In order to enhance the density of images to be formed by development and improve the gradation thereof an alternating bias voltage may be applied to the developing sleeve to form in the developing zone C a vibrating electric field whose direction alternately reverses. In such a case an alternating bias voltage formed by superimposing a direct current voltage component having a value intermediate between the potential at image areas and the potential at back ground areas may preferably be applied to the developing sleeve .

As the developer feed stripping member it is preferable to use an elastic roller member made of resin rubber or sponge. In place of such an elastic roller a belt member or a brush member may also be used as the developer feed stripping member . Where a developer feed stripping roller formed of such an elastic roller is used as the developer feed stripping member the developer feed stripping roller may be rotated in the same direction as or in the direction counter to the developing sleeve either of which may appropriately be selected. Usually in view of stripping performance and feed performance it is much preferable for it to be rotated in the counter direction.

The developer feed stripping member may have a level of penetration to the developing sleeve of from 0.5 mm or more to 2.5 mm or less. This is preferable in view of the feed performance and stripping performance of the developer. This level of penetration is the value length that is found when the distance between the center of the developer feed stripping member and the center of the developing sleeve after they come into contact is subtracted from the value found by dividing by 2 the sum of the external diameter of the member and the external diameter of the sleeve before they come into contact.

In the developing assembly shown in an elastic blade made of a material having rubber elasticity such as urethane rubber or silicone rubber or a material having metal elasticity such as bronze or stainless steel may be used as a developer layer thickness regulating member. This elastic blade is brought into pressure touch with the developing sleeve in such a state that it bends in the direction reverse to the rotational direction of the developing sleeve .

As this elastic blade it is preferable to use especially in order to secure a stable force for regulating developer layer thickness and a stable performance for providing the developer with negative triboelectric charges one having a structure wherein a polyamide elastomer PAE is stuck to the surface of a phosphor bronze plate which can attain a stable pressure. The polyamide elastomer PAE may include copolymers of polyamide with polyether.

In the developing assembly shown in too the pressure at which such a developer layer thickness regulating member is in touch with the developer carrying member may preferably be a linear pressure of from 4.9 10N cm or more to 4.9 10N cm or less as in the case of the one shown in that makes use of the magnetic one component developer.

Incidentally besides the developer layer thickness regulating member for regulating the layer thickness of the negatively chargeable developer layer the developing assembly making use of the developer carrying member of the present invention may appropriately be changed in the shape of the developer container the presence of the agitating transport member or the disposition of the magnetic poles the shape of the developer feed member the presence of the developer supply container and so forth.

The developer toner usable in the developing assembly making use of the developer carrying member of the present invention is negatively chargeable. Also this negatively chargeable developer makes use of conventionally known materials e.g. components such as a binder resin a charge control agent a magnetic material a colorant a releasing agent and an inorganic fine powder and may be obtained by a conventionally known production process without any particular limitations.

Particles developer particles constituting the developer used in the present invention may preferably have a weight average particle diameter in the range of from 4 m or more to 8 m or less. The use of such a developer enables image quality and image density to be well balanced with ease. Also in order to achieve stable image density and image quality the above developer may also preferably have particles that are more closely spherical namely developer particles having an average circularity close to 1.0.

As the binder resin used in the developer any commonly known resin may be used which may include e.g. vinyl resins polyester resins polyurethane resins epoxy resins and phenol resins. In particular vinyl resins or polyester resins are preferable from the viewpoint of developing performance and fixing performance.

For the purpose of improving triboelectric charge characteristics a charge control agent may be used by incorporating it in developer particles internal addition or blending it with developer particles external addition . Such addition of the charge control agent enables easy control of triboelectric charge quantity in accordance with developing systems.

Where the developer is a magnetic developer a magnetic material therefor may include e.g. iron oxide type metal oxides such as magnetite maghemite and ferrite and magnetic metals such as Fe Co and Ni or alloys of any of these metals with any of metals such as Al Co Cu Pb Mg Ni Sn Zn Sb Be Bi Cd Ca Mn Se Ti W and V and mixtures of any of these any of which may be mixed. Here any of these magnetic materials may be made to serve also as a colorant.

A release agent may preferably be mixed in the developer from the viewpoint of e.g. prevention of sheet winding around to a fixing assembly. As the release agent Fischer Tropsch wax may be used for example.

In order to improve environmental stability charging stability developing performance fluidity and storage stability and to improve cleaning performance it is further preferable to externally add to developer particles an inorganic fine powder such as silica titanium oxide or alumina powder. In particular fine silica powder is much preferred.

The present invention is described below in greater detail by giving working examples to which however the present invention is by no means limited.

 1 Measurement of Volume Average Particle Diameters of Conductive Particles and Unevenness Providing Particles 

The volume average particle diameters of the conductive particles such as graphite particles and metal oxide particles and of the unevenness providing particles used in forming the surface layer may be measured with a laser diffraction particle size distribution meter trade name Coulter LS 230 Particle Size Distribution Meter manufactured by Beckman Coulter Inc. .

As a specific measuring method a small level module is used and as a measuring solvent isopropyl alcohol IPA is used. First the inside of a measuring system of the particle size distribution meter is washed with the IPA for 5 minutes and background function is executed after the washing. Next 1 mg or more to 25 mg or less of a measuring sample is added to 50 ml of IPA. The sample suspension obtained is subjected to dispersion treatment by means of an ultrasonic dispersion machine for 3 minutes to obtain a testing sample fluid. Then this testing sample fluid is slowly added to the interior of the measuring system of the measuring instrument and the sample concentration in the measuring system is so adjusted as to be 45 or more to 55 or less as PIDS polarization intensity differential scattering on the screen of the instrument to make measurement to determine volume average particle diameter calculated from volume distribution.

Incidentally in working examples given later the volume average particle diameter was measured by using the above method when particles had a volume average particle diameter of 0.5 m or more but when it was less than 0.5 m a maker s value was used.

 2 Measurement of Surface Roughness Ra Arithmetic Mean Roughness of Developer Carrying Member Surface 

Measured with a surface roughness measuring instrument trade name SURFCORDER SE 3500 manufactured by Kosaka Laboratory Ltd. which accords with Surface Roughness JIS B0601 2001 at positions of 3 spots in the axial direction and 3 spots in the peripheral direction 9 spots in total and their mean value is taken as the surface roughness Ra of the sample developer carrying member . Here cut off was 0.8 mm measurement distance 8.0 mm and feed rate 0.5 mm s.

Using LC MS trade name AGILENT 1200 1600 manufactured by Agilent Technologies the presence of the quaternary phosphonium salt and azo metal complex compound is identified from the surface layer of the developer carrying member. A sample eluate obtained by immersing in methanol the surface layer of the developer carrying member and eluting the components to be eluted is ionized by electrospray ionization ESI to carry out LC MS measurement for both positive and negative.

As a sample one obtained by forming a surface layer of 7 m or more to 20 m or less thick on a PET polyethylene terephthalate sheet of 100 m thick is used. As a measuring instrument a resistivity meter LORESTAR AP low resistance or HIRESTAR IP high resistance both trade names manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation are properly used depending on resistance value to measure the value of volume resistance using a four terminal probe. Also the volume resistivity is measured in a measuring environment set at 20 C. or more to 25 C. or less 50 RH relative humidity to 60 RH.

About 20 mg of the azo metal complex compound is added to a solution composed of 2 ml of a surface active agent SCOREROL 100 trade name available from Kao Corporation and 20 ml of water to prepare a liquid mixture. Subsequently about 1 ml of this liquid mixture is added to about 120 ml of dispersion water held in a particle size distribution measuring instrument LA 910 trade name manufactured by Horiba Ltd. and after ultrasonic vibration has been carried out for 1 minute the particle size distribution is measured.

Using a dimension measuring instrument LS 5000 Series trade name manufactured by Keyence Corporation which measures the outer diameter of a cylinder by using laser light the outer diameter S of a developer carrying member before formation of the surface layer thereon the outer diameter S thereof after formation of the surface layer thereon and the outer diameter S thereof after running service running service conditions are appropriately set are each measured. From these measured values surface layer thickness S S and surface layer wear depth film wear S S are calculated.

To measure these a controller LS 5500 trade name and a sensor head LS 5040T trade name are used which are of the above measuring instrument. A sensor is separately fastened to an instrument fitted with a developer carrying member fastening jig and a sleeve feed mechanism where the outer diameter size of the developer carrying member is measured at 30 spots on the developer carrying member divided into 30 areas in its lengthwise direction and further at 30 spots after the sleeve is rotated by 90 degrees in the peripheral direction 60 spots in total. The outer diameter size is the average value of measured values thus found which are measured in an environment of a temperature of 20 C. or more to 25 C. or less and a humidity of 50 RH or more to 60 RH or less. Here the outer diameter size of the developer carrying member after running service is measured after any developer melt stuck matter standing adherent or melt stuck onto the surface has been removed by ultrasonic cleaning in methyl ethyl ketone for 1 minute.

Coulter Multisizer III trade name manufactured by Beckman Coulter Inc. is used as a measuring instrument. As an electrolytic solution also used is an aqueous about 1 by mass NaCl solution prepared by dissolving sodium chloride first grade reagent or ISOTON II trade name available from Beckman Coulter Inc. . First as a dispersant 0.1 ml or more to 5 ml or less of a surface active agent an alkylbenzenesulfonate solution is added to 100 ml or more to 150 ml or less of the electrolytic solution and then 2 mg or more to 20 mg or less of a sample developer is added. This is subjected to dispersion treatment for about 1 minute or more to about 3 minutes or less in an ultrasonic dispersion machine to prepare a testing sample. Then the volume and number of developer particles in the testing sample are measuring by using a 100 m aperture of the measuring instrument.

From the results of this measurement volume distribution and number distribution are calculated to determine the weight base weight average particle diameter D determined from the volume distribution and the number base number average particle diameter D determined from the number distribution in the both the middle value of each channel is used as the representative value for each channel .

The average circularity of developer particles is measured with a flow type particle image analyzer FPIA 3000 trade name manufactured by Sysmex Corporation and under conditions for the measurement and analysis at the time of correction operation.

A specific measuring method is as follows First about 20 ml of ion exchanged water from which impurity solid matter and the like have beforehand been removed is put into a container made of glass. To this water about 0.2 ml of a dilute solution is added as a dispersant which is prepared by diluting CONTAMINON N trade name an aqueous 10 by mass solution of a pH 7 neutral detergent for washing precision measuring instruments which is composed of a nonionic surface active agent an anionic surface active agent and an organic builder and is available from Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. with ion exchanged water to about 3 fold by mass. Further about 0.02 g of a measuring sample developer is added followed by dispersion treatment for 2 minutes by means of an ultrasonic dispersion machine to prepare a liquid dispersion for measurement. In that course the dispersion system is appropriately so cooled that the liquid dispersion has a temperature of 10 C. or more to 40 C. or less.

As the ultrasonic dispersion machine a desk top ultrasonic washer dispersion machine e.g. VS 150 trade name manufactured by Velvo Clear Co. is used which is of kHz in oscillation frequency and 150 W in electric output. Into its water tank a stated amount of ion exchanged water is put and about 2 ml of the above CONTAMINON N is fed into this water tank.

In the measurement the flow type particle image analyzer is used carrying an objective lens UPlanApro trade name magnification 10 times number of aperture 0.40 and a particle sheath PSE 900A trade name available from Sysmex Corporation is used as a sheath solution. The liquid dispersion having been controlled according to the above procedure is introduced into the flow type particle analyzer where 3 000 developer particles are counted in an HPE measuring mode and in a total count mode. Then the binary coded threshold value at the time of particle analysis is set to 85 and the diameter of particles to be analyzed are limited to circle equivalent diameter of from 1.985 m or more to less than 39.69 m where the average circularity of developer particles is determined.

In the measurement before the measurement is started autofocus control is performed using standard latex particles e.g. trade name RESEARCH AND TEST PARTICLES Latex Microsphere Suspensions 5200A available from Duke Scientific Corporation having been diluted with ion exchanged water . Thereafter the autofocus control may preferably be performed at intervals of 2 hours after the measurement has been started.

In working examples given later a flow type particle image analyzer is used on which correction is operated by Sysmex Corporation and for which a correction certificate issued by Sysmex Corporation is issued. Measurement is made under the measurement and analysis conditions set when the correction certificate is received except that the diameters of particles to be analyzed are limited to the circle equivalent diameter of from 1.985 m or more to less than 39.69 m.

 9 Measurement of Glass Transition Point Tg of Binder Resin and Melting Point of Wax Used in Developer 

Peak temperatures of maximum endothermic peaks of the wax and toner are measured according to ASTM D3418 82 using a differential scanning calorimetry analyzer Q1000 trade name manufactured by TA Instruments Japan Ltd. .

The temperature at the detecting portion of the instrument is corrected on the basis of melting points of indium and zinc and the amount of heat is corrected on the basis of heat of fusion of indium.

Stated specifically about 10 mg of the toner is precisely weighed and this is put into a pan made of aluminum and an empty pan made of aluminum is used as reference. Measurement is made at a heating rate of 10 C. min within the measurement temperature range of from 30 C. to 200 C. Here in the measurement the toner is first heated to 200 C. then cooled to 30 C. and thereafter heated again. In the course of this second time heating a maximum endothermic peak of a DSC curve in the temperature range of from 30 C. to 200 C. is taken as a maximum endothermic peak of the toner used in the present invention in its DSC measurement. In that case changes in specific heat are also found within the range of temperature of from 40 C. to 100 C. The point at which the middle point line between the base lines of a differential thermal curve before and after the appearance of the changes in specific heat thus found and the differential thermal curve intersect is regarded as the glass transition temperature Tg of the binder resin.

Magnetic properties of the magnetic iron oxide particles are measured with use of a vibration sample type magnetic force meter VSM P7 trade name manufactured by Toei Industry Co. Ltd. at a sample temperature of 25 C. and under application of an external magnetic field of 795.8 kA m.

 11 Measurement of Average Primary Particle Diameters of Magnetic Iron Oxide Particles Silica Particles and Titanium Oxide Particles Used in Developer 

The average primary particle diameters of these particles may be specified by observing the respective particles on a scanning electron microscope 40 000 magnifications or more to 400 000 magnifications or less and measuring Ferret s diameters of 200 particles for the respective particles to determine their number average particle diameters. In working examples given later S 4700 trade name manufactured by Hitachi Ltd. was used as the scanning electron microscope.

As the conductive particles used in the surface layer of the developer carrying member any of the following conductive particles A 1 and A 2 was used.

As a raw material a mixture of coke and tar pitch was used and this mixture was kneaded at a temperature of not less than the melting point of the tar pitch the kneaded product obtained was extruded and the extruded product was primarily baked at 1 000 C. in an atmosphere of nitrogen so as to be carbonized. Subsequently the product obtained was impregnated with coal tar pitch and thereafter this was secondarily baked at 2 800 C. in an atmosphere of nitrogen so as to be graphitized further followed by pulverization and classification to obtain conductive particles A 1 of 4.1 m in volume average particle diameter.

Carbon black trade name TOKA BLACK 5500 available from Tokai Carbon Co. Ltd. was used as conductive particles A 2.

As the binder resin used in the surface layer of the developer carrying member any of the following resins B 1 B 2 B 3 b 1 and b 2 was used.

Resol type phenol resin trade name J 325CA available from DIC Corporation making use of an ammonia catalyst was used as a resin B 1.

A mixture of polyol trade name NIPPOLAN 5037 available from Nippon Polyurethane Industry Co. Ltd. and a curing agent trade name COLONATE L available from Nippon Polyurethane Industry Co. Ltd. in a mass ratio of 10 1 was used as a resin B 2.

A 6 66 610 copolymer nylon trade name ELVAMIDE 8023 available from Du Pont Japan Ltd. was used as a resin B 3.

Resol type phenol resin GF9000 trade name available from Dainippon Ink Chemicals Incorporated making use of an NaOH catalyst was used as a resin b 1.

Silicone resin SH804 trade name available from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. was used as a resin b 2.

As the quaternary phosphonium salt used in the surface layer of the developer carrying member any of the following quaternary phosphonium salts C 1 C 2 C 3 and C 4 was used.

A quaternary phosphonium salt trade name HISHIKOLIN BTPPBr available from Nippon Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. the compound of Exemplary No. 1 in Table 1 1 was used as a quaternary phosphonium salt C 1.

A quaternary phosphonium salt trade name Benzyltriphenylphosphonium Bromide available from Tokyo Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. the compound of Exemplary No. 4 in Table 1 1 was used as a quaternary phosphonium salt C 2.

A quaternary phosphonium salt represented by the following formula 5 trade name HISHIKOLIN PX 4BT available from Nippon Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. was used as a phosphonium salt C 3.

A quaternary phosphonium salt trade name Triphenyl 2 propenyl phosphonium Bromide available from Tokyo Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. the compound of Exemplary No. 2 in Table 1 1 was used as a quaternary phosphonium salt C 4.

As the azo metal complex compound or the other complex which is used in the surface layer of the developer carrying member any of the following complexes D 1 D 2 D 3 D 4 D 5 D 6 D 7 D 8 and d 1 was used.

10 parts by mass of 4 chloro 2 aminophenol was added to a mixture of 76.5 parts by mass of water and 15.2 parts by mass of 35 by mass hydrochloric acid and these were stirred to prepare an aqueous amine solution. To this aqueous amine solution which was so maintained as to be at 0 C. or more to 5 C. or less 13.6 parts by mass of sodium nitrite dissolved in 24.6 parts by mass of water was dropwise added followed by stirring for 2 hours to make it into a diazo form. Sulfamic acid was added thereto to make excess nitrous acid disappear followed by filtration to obtain a diazo solution.

Next 12.0 parts by mass of 3 methyl 1 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 pyrazolone was added to and dissolved in a solution of mixture of 87 parts by mass of water 12.1 parts by mass of an aqueous 25 by mass sodium hydroxide solution 4.9 parts by mass of sodium carbonate and 104.6 parts by mass of n butanol. To the solution obtained the above diazo solution was added and these were stirred at 20 C. or more to 22 C. or less for 4 hours to carry out coupling reaction.

Thereafter to the reaction solution 92.8 parts by mass of water and 43.5 parts by mass of an aqueous 25 by mass sodium hydroxide solution were added and these were stirred and thereafter left to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase.

To the oily phase obtained a mixture of 42.2 parts by mass of water 5.9 parts by mass of salicylic acid 24.6 parts by mass of butanol and 48.5 parts by mass of an aqueous 15 by mass sodium carbonate solution was added and stirred thereinto and further 15.1 parts by mass of an aqueous 38 by mass ferric chloride solution and 18.0 parts by mass of an aqueous 15 by mass sodium carbonate solution were added and the pH was adjusted with acetic acid to 4.5. Then the liquid temperature was controlled at 30 C. followed by stirring for 8 hours to carry out complexing reaction. After the stirring was stopped the reaction product obtained was left to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase.

To the oil layer obtained 189.9 parts by mass of water was added and these were stirred and washed to remove the lower layer aqueous phase. The metal complex compound formed was separated by filtration and thereafter a cake of the metal complex compound was washed with 253 parts by mass of water. Thereafter the resultant metal complex compound was vacuum dried at a temperature of 60 C. for 24 hours to obtain a complex D 1.

The structure of the complex D 1 was analyzed by using infrared absorption spectroscopy visible light absorption spectroscopy elementary analysis C H N atomic absorption spectroscopy and mass spectrometry so that this was identified as a compound having a structure wherein Ato A B M and J in the formula 2 were those shown in Table 2. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 1 as measured by the method describe above is also shown in Table 2. Also in Table 2 as to the sites of bond of Aand A the positions of bond of their respective substituents on the phenyl groups shown in the formula 2 and as to the site of bond of A the position of bond thereof on the phenylene group shown in the formula 2 are entered according to IUPAC nomenclature.

A complex D 2 was obtained in the same way as the complex D 1 except that in the method of making the complex D 1 the 3 methyl 1 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 pyrazolone was changed for 3 methyl 1 phenyl 5 pyrazolone and the aqueous ferric chloride solution used for the metal complexing reaction was changed for an aqueous chromium sulfate solution.

The structure of the complex D 2 was analyzed by using infrared absorption spectroscopy visible light absorption spectroscopy elementary analysis C H N atomic absorption spectroscopy and mass spectrometry so that this was identified as a compound having a structure wherein Ato A B M and J in the formula 2 were those shown in Table 2. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 2 obtained is also shown in Table 2.

As a complex D 3 an azo iron complex represented by the following formula 6 trade name T 77 available from Hodogaya Chemical Co. Ltd. was used. In the following formula the value of a b c is 1. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 3 is also shown in Table 2.

As a complex D 4 an azo chromium complex represented by the following formula 7 trade name T 95 available from Hodogaya Chemical Co. Ltd. was used. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 4 is also shown in Table 2.

A complex D 5 was obtained in the same way as the complex D 1 except that in the method of making the complex D 1 the 3 methyl 1 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 pyrazolone was changed for 3 methyl 1 phenyl 5 pyrazolone and the aqueous ferric chloride solution used for the metal complexing reaction was changed for an aqueous aluminum chloride solution.

The structure of the complex D 5 was analyzed by using infrared absorption spectroscopy visible light absorption spectroscopy elementary analysis C H N atomic absorption spectroscopy and mass spectrometry so that this was identified as a compound having a structure wherein Ato A B M and J in the formula 2 were those shown in Table 2. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 5 obtained is also shown in Table 2.

A complex D 6 was obtained in the same way as the complex D 1 except that in the method of making the complex D 1 the 3 methyl 1 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 pyrazolone was changed for 3 methyl 1 3 4 dinitrophenyl 5 pyrazolone.

The structure of the complex D 6 was analyzed by using infrared absorption spectroscopy visible light absorption spectroscopy elementary analysis C H N atomic absorption spectroscopy and mass spectrometry so that this was identified as a compound having a structure wherein Ato A B M and J in the formula 2 were those shown in Table 2. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 6 obtained is also shown in Table 2.

Coupling reaction was carried out in the same way as the complex D 1. To the oily phase obtained upon completion of the coupling reaction 42.2 parts by mass of water 5.9 parts by mass of salicylic acid 24.6 parts by mass of n butanol and 48.5 parts by mass of an aqueous 15 by mass sodium carbonate solution were added and stirred thereinto and further 15.1 parts by mass of an aqueous 38 by mass ferric chloride solution and 48.5 parts by mass of an aqueous 15 by mass sodium carbonate solution were added followed by stirring for 8 hours with heating at 30 C. to carry out complexing reaction. After the stirring was stopped the reaction product obtained was left to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase.

To the oily phase obtained 92.8 parts by mass of water 12.3 parts by mass of n butanol and 8.7 parts by mass of an aqueous 25 by mass sodium hydroxide solution were added and these were stirred followed by leaving to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase. The oil layer thus obtained was filtered to take out a metal complex compound and this was washed with 253 parts by mass of water.

Next to 82.3 parts by mass of water 2.9 parts by mass of ammonium sulfate was added and these were stirred while raising temperature. To the resultant aqueous ammonium sulfate solution at a point where its internal temperature came to be 90 C. a liquid mixture prepared by dispersing in 113.9 parts by mass of water the metal complex compound washed as above was dropwise added through a pipette. The mixture obtained was stirred for 1 hour while evaporating the n butanol at 97 C. or more to 99 C. or less. The metal complex compound formed was separated by filtration and thereafter a cake of the metal complex compound was washed with 253 parts by mass of water. Thereafter the resultant metal complex compound was vacuum dried at a temperature of 60 C. for 24 hours to obtain a complex D 7.

The structure of the complex D 7 was analyzed by using infrared absorption spectroscopy visible light absorption spectroscopy elementary analysis C H N atomic absorption spectroscopy and mass spectrometry so that this was identified as a compound having a structure wherein Ato A B M and J in the formula 2 were those shown in Table 2. The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 7 obtained is also shown in Table 2.

10 parts by mass of 4 chloro 2 aminophenol was added to a mixture of 76.5 parts by mass of water and 15.2 parts by mass of 35 by mass hydrochloric acid and these were stirred to prepare an aqueous amine solution.

To this aqueous amine solution which was so maintained as to be at 0 C. or more to 5 C. or less 13.6 parts by mass of sodium nitrite dissolved in 24.6 parts by mass of water was dropwise added followed by stirring for 2 hours to make it into a diazo form. Sulfamic acid was added thereto to make excess nitrous acid disappear followed by filtration to obtain a diazo solution.

Next 12.0 parts by mass of 1 2 naphthyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethylbutane was added to and dissolved in a solution of mixture of 87 parts by mass of water 12.1 parts by mass of an aqueous 25 by mass sodium hydroxide solution 4.9 parts by mass of sodium carbonate and 104.6 parts by mass of n butanol. To the solution obtained the above diazo solution was added and these were stirred at 20 C. or more to 22 C. or less for 4 hours to carry out coupling reaction.

Thereafter to the reaction solution 92.8 parts by mass of water and 43.5 parts by mass of an aqueous 25 by mass sodium hydroxide solution were added and these were stirred and thereafter left to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase.

To the oily phase obtained a mixture of 42.2 parts by mass of water 5.9 parts by mass of salicylic acid 24.6 parts by mass of n butanol and 48.5 parts by mass of 15 sodium carbonate was added and stirred thereinto and further 15.1 parts by mass of an aqueous 38 by mass chromium sulfate solution and 48.5 parts by mass of 15 sodium carbonate were added and the liquid temperature was controlled at 30 C. followed by stirring for 8 hours to carry out complexing reaction. After the stirring was stopped the reaction product obtained was left to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase.

To the resultant oily phase obtained 92.8 parts by mass of water 12.3 parts by mass of n butanol and 8.7 parts by mass of 25 sodium hydroxide were added and these were stirred followed by leaving to stand to remove the lower layer aqueous phase. The oil phase thus obtained was filtered to take out a metal complex compound and this was washed with 253 parts by mass of water.

Next to 82.3 parts by mass of water 5.9 parts by mass of sodium hydroxide was added and these were stirred while raising temperature. To the resultant aqueous solution at a point where its internal temperature came to be 90 C. a liquid mixture prepared by dispersing in 113.9 parts by mass of water the metal complex compound washed as above was dropwise added through a pipette. The mixture obtained was stirred for 1 hour while evaporating the n butanol at 97 C. or more to 99 C. or less. The metal complex compound formed was separated by filtration and thereafter a cake of the metal complex compound was washed with 253 parts by mass of water. Thereafter the resultant metal complex compound was vacuum dried at a temperature of 60 C. for 24 hours to obtain a complex D 8 represented by the following formula 8 . The volume average particle diameter of the complex D 8 is shown in Table 2.

As the unevenness providing particles used in the surface layer of the developer carrying member spherical carbon particles trade name NICABEADS ICB0520 available from Nippon Carbon Co. Ltd. were used.

Polyester monomers shown in Table 3 were fed into a four necked flask together with an esterifying catalyst dibutyltin oxide and a vacuum device a water separator a nitrogen gas feeder a temperature measuring device and a stirrer were attached to the flask followed by stirring at 135 C. in an atmosphere of nitrogen. In this occasion in order to obtain the desired cross linked structure fumaric acid was dividedly added at the initial stage and latter stage of the reaction. To the mixture obtained what was obtained by mixing vinyl type copolymerization monomers styrene 84 mol and 2 ethylhexyl acrylate 14 mol and as a polymerization initiator 2 mol of benzoyl peroxide was dropwise added from a dropping funnel over a period of 4 hours. Thereafter reaction was carried out at 135 C. for 5 hours and then the reaction temperature at the time of polycondensation was raised to 230 C. to carry out polycondensation reaction. After the reaction was completed the reaction product was taken out of the flask followed by cooling and then pulverization to obtain a binder resin E 1. This binder resin E 1 had a Tg of 54.5 C. and a softening point of 135.5 C.

Polyester monomers shown in Table 4 were fed into a four necked flask together with an esterifying catalyst dibutyltin oxide and a vacuum device a water separator a nitrogen gas feeder a temperature measuring device and a stirrer were attached to the flask followed by stirring at 135 C. in an atmosphere of nitrogen. To the mixture obtained what was obtained by mixing vinyl type copolymerization monomers styrene 84 mol and 2 ethylhexyl acrylate 14 mol and as a polymerization initiator 2 mol of benzoyl peroxide was dropwise added from a dropping funnel over a period of 4 hours. Thereafter reaction was carried out at 135 C. for 5 hours and then the reaction temperature at the time of polycondensation was raised to 230 C. to carry out polycondensation reaction. After the reaction was completed the reaction product was taken out of the flask followed by cooling and then pulverization to obtain a binder resin E 2. This binder resin E 2 had a Tg of 56.8 C. and a softening point of 99.0 C.

Next 85 parts by mass of the binder resin E 1 and 15 parts by mass of the binder resin E 2 were mixed by means of Henschel mixer to make up a binder resin F 1.

Subsequently materials shown in Table 5 were premixed by means of Henschel mixer and thereafter the mixture obtained was melt kneaded by means of a twin screw kneading extruder. At this point retention time was so controlled that the resin kneaded had a temperature of 150 C.

The kneaded product obtained was cooled and thereafter crushed by means of a hammer mill followed by grinding. A grinding machine used therefor was Turbo mill trade name manufactured by Turbo Kogyo Co. Ltd. the surfaces of a rotator and a stator of which were coated by plating of a chromium alloy containing chromium carbide in a plating thickness of 150 m and a surface hardness of HV 1 050. The finely pulverized product thus obtained was classified by means of a multi division classifier utilizing the Coanda effect trade name Elbow Jet Classifier manufactured by Nittetsu Mining Co. Ltd. to obtain a negatively triboelectrically chargeable magnetic developer particles.

To 100 parts by mass of the magnetic developer particles thus obtained 1.0 part by mass of hydrophobic fine silica powder BET specific surface area 140 m g and 3.0 parts by mass of strontium titanate powder were externally added followed by sieving with a sieve of 150 m in mesh opening to obtain a negatively triboelectrically chargeable magnetic developer Z 1 having a weight average particle diameter of 6.0 m and an average circularity of 0.955.

Materials shown in Table 6 below were introduced into a pressurizable reaction vessel having a reflux tube a stirrer a thermometer a nitrogen feed tube a dropping unit and an evacuation unit and then heated to reflux temperature with stirring.

Subsequently to the liquid mixture obtained a solution prepared by diluting 0.45 part by mass of a polymerization initiator t butyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate with 20 parts by mass of 2 butanone was dropwise added over a period of 30 minutes and the stirring was continued for 5 hours to which a solution prepared by diluting 0.28 part by mass of t butyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate with 20 parts by mass of 2 butanone was further dropwise added over a period of 30 minutes followed by stirring for further 5 hours to carry out polymerization. Thereafter the reaction solution obtained was poured into methanol to effect precipitation of a sulfonic acid group containing polymer S. The polymer obtained had a glass transition temperature Tg of 70.2 C. and weight average molecular weight of 22 000.

Next materials shown in Table 7 below were uniformly dispersed and mixed by means of Attritor trade name manufactured by Mitsui Miike Engineering Corporation to obtain a monomer composition.

The monomer composition thus obtained was heated to 60 C. and 7 parts by mass of an ester wax maximum value of endothermic peak in DSC 72 C. was added thereto and mixed to dissolve it therein. To the mixture obtained 3 parts by mass of a polymerization initiator 2 2 azobis 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile was dissolved to obtain polymerizable monomer composition A.

Meanwhile in 709 parts by mass of ion exchanged water 451 parts by mass of an aqueous 0.1 M NaPOsolution was introduced followed by heating to 60 C. Thereafter to the resultant mixture 67.7 parts by mass of an aqueous 1.0 M CaClsolution was added to obtain an aqueous medium A containing Ca PO .

Into this aqueous medium A the above polymerizable monomer composition A was introduced followed by stirring for 15 minutes at 60 C. in an atmosphere of N using TK type homomixer manufactured by Tokushu Kika Kogyo Co. Ltd. at 12 000 rpm to carry out granulation. Thereafter the granulated product obtained was stirred with a paddle stirring blade during which the reaction was carried out at 70 C. for 5 hours. Thereafter this was further continued to be stirred for 4 hours while maintaining the liquid temperature at 80 C. After the reaction was completed distillation was carried out at 80 C. for further 2 hours thereafter the suspension formed was cooled and then hydrochloric acid was added thereto to dissolve the dispersant followed by filtration washing with water and then drying to obtain black particles having a weight average particle diameter of 6.5 m.

100 parts by mass of the black particles thus obtained and 1.2 parts by mass of hydrophobic fine silica powder obtained by treating silica of 12 nm in primary particle diameter with hexamethyldisilazane and thereafter with silicone oil and having a BET specific surface area of 120 m g after the treatment were blended by means of Henschel mixer manufactured by Mitsui Miike Engineering Corporation . As the result it was able to produce a negatively triboelectrically chargeable magnetic developer Z 2 having a weight average particle diameter of 6.3 m and an average circularity of 0.989.

To 900 parts by mass of ion exchanged water heated to 60 C. 3 parts by mass of tricalcium phosphate was added followed by stirring at 10 000 rpm by means of a stirrer trade name TK type homomixer manufactured by PRIMIX Corporation to prepare an aqueous medium B.

Materials shown in Table 8 below were also introduced into a homogenizer and then heated to 60 C. followed by stirring at 8 000 rpm by means of the TK type homomixer to effect dispersion.

In this 5 parts by mass of a polymerization initiator 2 2 azobis 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile was dissolved to prepare a polymerizable monomer composition B. The polymerizable monomer composition B was introduced into the above aqueous medium B followed by stirring at 8 000 rpm at a temperature of 60 C. in an atmosphere of nitrogen using the TK type homomixer to granulate the polymerizable monomer composition.

Thereafter the granulated product obtained was moved to a reaction vessel having a propeller stirrer and stirred during which the temperature was raised to 70 C. over a period of 2 hours. Four hours after the temperature was further raised to 80 C. at a rate of heating of 40 C. hr where the reaction was carried out at 80 C. for hours to produce polymer particles. After the polymerization was completed a slurry containing the polymer particles was cooled which was then washed with water used in an amount 10 times that of the slurry followed by filtration drying and thereafter classification to control particle diameter to obtain base particles of a cyan developer.

Subsequently materials shown in Table 9 below were blended by dry processing for 5 minutes by means of Henschel mixer to obtain a negatively triboelectrically chargeable non magnetic one component developer a developer Z 3 having a weight average particle diameter of 5.6 m and an average circularity of 0.982.

To a mixture of materials shown in Table 10 below methanol was added to control the mixture to have a solid content of 40 by mass and this was dispersed for 2 hours by means of a sand mill trade name SAND GRINDER LSG 4U 08 manufactured by IMEX Co. Ltd. making use of glass beads of 1 mm in diameter . Subsequently the glass beads were separated by using a sieve and thereafter methanol was so added as to control the product to have a solid matter concentration of 33 by mass to obtain a coating material.

Next as a substrate a cylindrical tube made of aluminum and having been worked by grinding to have an outer diameter of 24.5 mm and an arithmetic mean roughness Ra of 0.2 m was prepared which was masked at its upper and lower end portions both end portions of the substrate in its axial direction . This substrate was kept to stand upright and rotated at a stated speed and was coated thereon with the above coating material while a spray gun was descended at a stated speed. Subsequently the coat layer formed was cured and dried by heating it at a temperature of 150 C. for 30 minutes in a hot air drying oven to produce a developer carrying member T1. The surface layer of the developer carrying member T1 was 10 m in layer thickness and 0.84 m in surface roughness Ra. The materials added and physical properties of the surface layer of the developer carrying member T1 are shown in Table 11.

Incidentally in Tables 11 14 and 16 pbm refers to parts by mass and pbm of resin refers to parts by mass of resin solid content.

On a sample in which components of the surface layer stood eluted obtained by immersing in methanol the surface layer of the developer carrying member T1 measurement was made by LC MS for both positive and negative. The results are shown in respectively. In the measurement by LC MS negative as in a peak of m z 846.00 is detected. This peak agrees with a peak of m z 846.00 shown in which is of the complex D 1 singly present thus this shows that the complex D 1 is detectable from the surface layer of the developer carrying member. Likewise in the measurement by LC MS positive as in a peak of m z 319.25 is detected. This peak agrees with a peak of m z 319.25 shown in which is of the phosphonium salt C 1 singly present thus this shows that the phosphonium salt C 1 is detectable from the surface layer of the developer carrying member.

In the evaluation an electrophotographic image forming apparatus trade name IR ADVANCE 6075 manufactured by CANON INC. was used the photosensitive drum of which is an amorphous silicon drum photosensitive member. This electrophotographic image forming apparatus is one having the non contact developing assembly making use of a magnetic one component developer shown in . That is this developing assembly has the magnetic one component developer and also has the magnetic blade as a developer layer thickness regulating member. Also in the interior of the developer carrying member T1 according to this Example the magnet was provided as shown in .

The developer carrying member T1 was set in the developing assembly the sleeve to drum distance was set to be 240 m and the developer Z 1 was used. Copying environments were a high temperature and high humidity environment H H of temperature 30 C. and humidity 80 RH a normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N of temperature 23 C. and humidity 50 RH and a normal temperature and low humidity environment N L of temperature 23 C. and humidity 5 RH where using a test chart having a print percentage of 1.5 images were continuously reproduced on 1 000 000 sheets in each environment. Here in the N L and N N image evaluation was made when copied on 10th sheet initial stage and when copied on 1 000 000th sheet after running and in the H H it was made when copied on 10th sheet initial stage and when left to stand for 10 days after continuous copying on 1 000 000 sheets after running .

Results obtained from the following evaluations 1 to 5 are shown in Table 12. Incidentally a schematic view of this developing assembly is what is shown as .

Copied image densities of solid black circular areas of 5 mm in diameter on the copies obtained by image reproduction of the test chart having a print percentage of 5.5 were measured as reflection densities by using a reflection densitometer trade name RD918 manufactured by Gretag Macbeth Ag. and an average value thereof at arbitrary 10 spots was taken as each image density. The results are shown in Table 12. On that occasion in Table 12 the percent of a decrease in density between images before and after the running was also noted. Where the density increased as a result of the running it was shown as a negative value.

As images to be reproduced by the image forming apparatus a chart was used in which a zone located at the image sheet leading end and corresponding to one round of the developer carrying member was provided in its white background with hieroglyphic images composed of solid black squares and circles arranged at equal intervals and the other part was provided with halftone images. Based on how a ghost s of the hieroglyphic images appeared on the halftone images the results were ranked according to the following criteria. Here the images were reproduced after an image where no image was formed and no developer was consumed was reproduced on 3 sheets immediately before they were reproduced.

In making image evaluation for each developer carrying member the surface of the developer carrying member surface layer was observed to visually observe whether or not any spotty images or wave pattern images blotches were present which were caused by faulty triboelectric charge providing to the developer. A case in which the blotches were present was marked with NG in the column of evaluation results of the table and a case in which no blotches were present was marked with OK . Where the blotches occurred the other evaluations were stopped.

The outer diameter of the developer carrying member was measured and wear depths of the surface layer were calculated from differences between the values before service and the values after running and an average value thereof was taken as the wear depth of the whole surface layer. Incidentally in measuring the values after running the surface of the developer carrying member was cleaned with isopropanol. Here in measuring the values after running a developer carrying member having been put to the running in the normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N of temperature 23 C. and humidity 50 RH was used.

The arithmetic mean roughness Ra of the surface of the developer carrying member was measured before and after the running. Here in the measurement after the running a developer carrying member having been put to the running in the normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N of temperature 23 C. and humidity 50 RH was used.

Developer carrying members T2 to T23 were produced in the same way as the developer carrying member T1 according to Example 1 except that the constitution of each developer carrying member was changed as shown in Table 11. Note that in Example 6 the solid content of the coating material used to form the surface layer was 15 by mass. For the developer carrying members T2 to T23 obtained the developer Z 1 was used and the images formed were evaluated in the same way as Example 1. Evaluation results obtained are shown in Tables 12 and 13.

In Comparative Examples 1 and 2 the binder resin had none of structures with the NHgroup the NH group and the NH linkage and hence the blotches occurred which were considered due to excess triboelectric charging of the developer. In addition the ghost also occurred very much.

In Comparative Example 3 the complex d 1 different from the azo metal complex compound was used and hence the ghost occurred very much.

In Comparative Examples 4 and 6 any azo metal complex compound was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the ghost occurred very much also resulting in a low image density in H H.

In Comparative Examples 5 and 7 any quaternary phosphonium salt was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the blotches occurred and in addition the ghost also occurred very much also resulting in a low image density in H H.

A coating material composed as shown in Table 14 and having a solid matter concentration of 33 by mass was used like Example 1 and as a substrate a cylindrical tube made of aluminum and having been worked by grinding to have an outer diameter of 14.0 mm and an arithmetic mean roughness Ra of 0.2 m was prepared which was masked at its upper and lower end portions. This substrate was kept to stand upright and rotated at a stated speed and was coated thereon with the coating material while a spray gun was descended at a stated speed. Subsequently the coat layer formed was cured and dried by heating it at a temperature of 150 C. for 30 minutes in a hot air drying oven to produce a developer carrying member T24.

The surface layer of the developer carrying member T24 was 7 m in layer thickness and 1.00 m in Ra. The materials added and physical properties of the surface layer of the developer carrying member T24 are shown in Table 14.

In the evaluation a laser printer trade name LASER JET P2055dn manufactured by Hewlett Packard Co. was used. This laser printer is an electrophotographic image forming apparatus having the magnetic one component non contact developing assembly shown in . That is this developing assembly has the magnetic one component developer and also has the elastic blade as a developer layer thickness regulating member. Also in the interior of the developer carrying member T24 according to this Example the magnet was provided as shown in .

This developer carrying member T24 was set in a process cartridge and also the developer Z 2 was filled therein. This process cartridge was mounted to the above laser printer and image evaluation was made. In the evaluation using a character pattern having a print percentage of 1 images were printed in an intermittent mode of 2 sheets 7 seconds on 12 000 sheets.

The image evaluation was made when printed on 10th sheet initial stage and when printed on 12 000th sheet after running . The same evaluations as Example 1 were made but as evaluation environments in a low temperature and low humidity environment L L of 15 C. and 10 RH a normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N of 23 C. and 50 RH and a high temperature and high humidity environment H H of 32 C. and 85 RH.

Evaluation results obtained are shown in Table 15. Incidentally a schematic view of this developing assembly is what is shown as .

Developer carrying members T25 to T37 were produced in the same way as Example 17 except that the constitution of each developer carrying member was changed as shown in Table 14. The images formed were evaluated in the same way as Example 17. Evaluation results obtained are shown in Table 15.

In Comparative Example 8 the binder resin had none of structures with the NHgroup the NH group and the NH linkage and hence the blotches occurred which were considered due to excess triboelectric charging of the developer. In addition the ghost also occurred very much.

In Comparative Example 9 the azo metal complex compound was not used and the quaternary phosphonium salt was added in a larger quantity. Hence although it was able at the initial stage to somewhat keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess the surface layer much wore upon continuous service a decrease in image density was seen and further the ghost occurred very much.

In Comparative Example 10 any azo metal complex compound was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the ghost occurred very much.

In Comparative Example 11 any quaternary phosphonium salt was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the blotches occurred.

A coating material composed as shown in Table 16 and having a solid matter concentration of 33 by mass like Example 1 was used and as a substrate a cylindrical tube made of aluminum and having been worked by grinding to have an outer diameter of 12.0 mm and an arithmetic mean roughness Ra of 0.2 m was prepared which was masked at its upper and lower end portions. This substrate was kept to stand upright and rotated at a stated speed and was coated thereon with the coating material while a spray gun was descended at a stated speed. Subsequently the coat layer formed was cured and dried by heating it at a temperature of 150 C. for 30 minutes in a hot air drying oven to produce a developer carrying member T38 the surface layer of which was 7 m in layer thickness and 0.51 m in Ra. The materials added and physical properties of the surface layer of the developer carrying member T38 are shown in Table 16.

The developer carrying member T38 obtained was set in a cyan cartridge of a laser beam printer trade name LASER SHOT LBP5000 manufactured by CANON INC. and the developer Z 3 was filled therein. This cyan cartridge was mounted to the laser printer where using a test chart having a print percentage of 1.0 images were reproduced in an intermittent mode of 1 sheet 10 seconds on 5 000 sheets running test . Here the image evaluation was made when printed on 10th sheet initial stage and when printed on 5 000th sheet after running .

The images were formed in a normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N of temperature 23 C. and humidity 50 RH a low temperature and low humidity environment L L of temperature 15 C. and humidity 10 RH and a high temperature and high humidity environment H H of temperature 32 C. and humidity 85 RH. As image evaluation the same evaluation as Example 1 and in addition thereto evaluation of the following halftone uniformity were made. About Examples 27 to 38 and Comparative Examples 12 to 15 all any blotches and ghost did not occur and hence evaluation results other than those on the blotches and ghost are shown in Table 17. Incidentally a schematic view of this developing assembly is what is shown as . Also the halftone uniformity was evaluated in the following way.

After solid white images were continuously reproduced on 20 sheets halftone images were reproduced to make visual observation on whether or not any density non uniformity misty tone difference occurred which tended to occur because of excess triboelectric charging of the developer. Here this evaluation was made when printed on 10th sheet initial stage and when printed on 5 000th sheet after running . A case in which such misty images were present was marked with NG in the column of evaluation results of the table and a case in which no misty images were present was marked with OK . Here the evaluation was made in the low temperature and low humidity environment L L of temperature 15 C. and humidity 10 RH.

Developer carrying members T39 to T53 were produced in the same way as Example 27 except that the constitution of each developer carrying member was changed as shown in Table 16. Note that in Example 30 the solid content of the surface layer forming coating material was 15 by mass. About the developer carrying members T39 to T53 obtained the images were evaluated in the same way as Example 27. Evaluation results obtained are shown in Table 17.

In Comparative Example 12 the binder resin had none of structures with the NHgroup the NH group and the NH linkage and hence the halftone uniformity was seen to have lowered as being considered due to excess triboelectric charging of the developer.

In Comparative Examples 13 and 15 any quaternary phosphonium salt was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the halftone uniformity lowered.

In Comparative Example 14 any azo metal complex compound was not used and this made it impossible to well keep the developer from being triboelectrically charged in excess and impossible to make the developer have a stable charge quantity. Hence the halftone uniformity lowered.

From the foregoing results it is seen that the developer carrying member that can properly maintain the providing of triboelectric charges from the surface layer to the developer can be obtained by the present invention.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail in accordance with the accompanying drawings.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 239223 filed Oct. 31 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

