---

title: Locating user device using beacon signal
abstract: A misplaced user device deactivates processors and other resources so as to conserve residual battery power, while a radio frequency (RF) circuit remains active. The RF circuit transmits a beacon signal at time intervals to aid a user in locating and recovery of the misplaced user device by way of another user device operating in search mode. Information regarding the identity or other characteristics of the misplaced user device may be encoded in the beacon signal to assist in the search. The misplaced user device may modify the beacon signaling RF power, time intervals, information, or other parameters in response to an acknowledgement signal received from the searching user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09532312&OS=09532312&RS=09532312
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09532312
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131125
---
It is desirable to locate misplaced tablet computers wearable computers cellular phones and other portable user devices. Methods and apparatus for recovering lost or misplaced devices are continually sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Portable user devices are utilized in many areas of endeavor. Cellular telephones tablet computers wearable computers having eyewear or wristwatch like form factors media access or viewing devices e book readers and the like are just a few examples. Such user devices perform various respective functions and are battery powered for operation in a mobile manner.

Unfortunately such user devices are sometimes misplaced owing to their relatively compact sizes and shapes. Worse yet a person may unwittingly leave their user device behind within a taxicab transit railcar aircraft or other vehicle such that relocation and recovery are relatively difficult due to the mobile nature of the venue. Furthermore these and other public locations are such that the user device may be found by someone unwilling to return it to its rightful owner.

Portable user devices are often designed to automatically discontinue most or all operations once the voltage of their battery or batteries drops below a threshold value. Such shut down operations are usually performed in the interest of protecting the battery against permanent damage or performance degradation that can occur as a result of excessive electrical discharge. Nonetheless batteries often contain a residual quantity of energy that may be safely used with little or no significant damage to the battery even after the voltage of the battery as dropped below a protective threshold value.

In more extreme cases recovery of the user device is of paramount concern due to file contents stored therein or other considerations regardless of any permanent damage to the battery. That is the cost or inconvenience of replacing a damaged battery is a secondary consideration in view of the unique resources or sensitive information content of the user device. Thus such residual energy within the battery may be applied to locating and recovery of the user device for as long as the corresponding resources can operate.

In one illustration a user device includes a radio frequency RF circuit or other wireless resource configured to send or transmit a beacon signal to aid in locating the user device. The beacon signal may include information regarding the user device such as an identification number or code a present battery voltage value an RF power used in transmitting the signal or other useful data. The beacon signal may be sent at time intervals of any suitable period so as to reduce overall energy consumption. Thus such a beacon signal may be sent once every minute once every two minutes and so on. The beacon signal may be an un modulated carrier wave modulated or encoded or exhibit other characteristics.

Continuing the present illustration transmission of the beacon signal may be triggered in response to sensing that the voltage of the user device battery has dropped below a first threshold level. The RF circuit may be configured to sense this voltage drop directly or it may receive a related trigger signal from a processor a power conditioning circuit or some other resource of the user device. One or more other resources of the user device such as an application processor display audio resources and the like may be controllably shut down in response to the first threshold voltage level or fail to operate due to the decreased battery voltage level. The RF circuit may therefore continue transmitting the beacon signal while most or all other resources of the user device have been inactivated to protect the battery or conserve power.

Another user device or other apparatus may be equipped to search for a lost user device by sensing the beacon signal and providing corresponding indications to a user. For example a user device in search mode may visually audibly or haptically indicate to a user when the beacon signal is detected. The searching user device my also indicate or display information provided by the beacon signal such as an identity of the lost user device an estimated range to the user device based on RF power level information and so forth. The searching user device may also be configured to acquire a last known location or other information about the lost user device. This information may be acquired from the lost user device a server or other network based resource if such information is available.

In the ongoing illustration the RF circuit may continue sending the beacon signal at time intervals of a first rate for instance one beacon signal transmission every minute. The RF circuit may also be configured to receive an acknowledgment signal from the searching user device the acknowledgement signal transmitted in response to detection of the beacon signal. In turn the RF circuit may respond by transmitting the beacon signal at time intervals of a second rate for instance one beacon signal transmission every twenty seconds or so. This quickened beacon signaling pace may assist the searching party such that recovery of the misplaced user device occurs in less time.

Further to the illustration the RF circuit may be configured to discontinue sending the beacon signal once the battery voltage falls below a second threshold value that is lesser than the first. In this way the battery or batteries of the user device may be protected against some measure of damage or performance degradation. In another example the battery may be considered expendable and the RF circuit may continue to transmit the beacon signal until cessation due to insufficient residual battery power.

As such respective user devices may be configured to transmit a beacon signal while operating from residual power stored within a battery. The beacon signaling may be performed while numerous other resources of the user device most notably application processors are de energized. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

 De energized as that term is used herein refers to an element component circuit or system that is inoperative and as such draws little or no electrical energy. Thus a de energized state is one in which the corresponding object is performing none of its normal functions or processes. However a de energized object may still be consuming electrical current at a non zero rate. For a non limiting example an application processor may continue to draw electrical current on a small scale while de energized.

A user device is depicted as a tablet computer having a portable form factor and configured to perform various operations in accordance with an executable program code. Other user device types or configurations such as e book readers smart phones wearable computers laptop computers and so forth may also be used. The user device includes a battery configured to provide operating power to various resources of the user device . In one example the battery is a rechargeable type such as lithium ion Li ion or other suitable variety.

The user device may also be configured to communicate with other apparatus and systems using a wireless module . The wireless module may include a radio frequency RF circuit defining a transmitter transceiver or other suitable configuration. The user device may operate in a mobile manner performing various operations in respective locations and at various times and communicating with other user devices or services by way of the wireless module .

Also depicted is a user device associated with a user . For purposes of illustration the user device is depicted as a cellular telephone or smart phone configured to perform various operations in accordance with an executable program code. The user device includes a wireless module configured to communicate information data or signals with other user devices or apparatus by way of wireless signaling.

The user device also includes a locate module . The locate module may include electronic circuitry a processor RF circuitry or devices executable program code stored on non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM or other suitable constituency. The locate module may assist the user in searching for the user device if it is misplaced or is taken by a malicious party. Specifically the locate module may be configured to sense or listen for a wireless beacon signal transmitted by the user device and to provide corresponding indications to the user .

Further depicted are illustrative elements that may be provided by a user device such as the user device or or both. The battery provides operating power to one or more resources. An RF circuit may be configured to provide the beacon signal as introduced above. The RF circuit may be included within the wireless module . In one embodiment the RF circuit may receive operating power directly from the battery . The RF circuit may be provided at least in part by a dedicated purpose integrated circuit by circuitry including discrete components or by other suitable constituency.

In one instance the RF circuit is configured to provide the beacon signal in accordance with a short range wireless signaling protocol such as in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE standards 802.11. For instance signaling protocols such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth may be used. Wi Fi is a registered trademark owned by Wi Fi Alliance Austin Tex. USA. Bluetooth is a registered trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG Inc. Kirkland Wash. USA. Other wireless signaling protocols may also be used.

By directly from the battery it is meant that the RF circuit is connected to the battery by wires circuit pathways or other constructs such that the operating power is characterized by the instantaneous output or terminal voltage of the battery . As such no current limiting voltage regulation or adjustment or other power conditioning is performed on the operating power .

The user device may also include power conditioning . The power conditioning may include electronic circuitry a controller executable program code or other constituency. The power conditioning is configured to receive operating power directly from the battery and to provide conditioned operating power to other respective resources. The conditioned operating power may be characterized by voltage regulation voltage reduction or boosting current limiting noise or interference filtering or other attributes. In one embodiment the RF circuit may receive conditioned operating power from the power conditioning in lieu of operating power received directly from the battery . In yet another embodiment the RF circuit may receive both conditioned operating power and operating power .

The user device may also include one or more processors . Each processor may be configured to perform various respective operations or functions in accordance with an executable program code. Thus any particular processor may perform operations commensurate with running an application defined and configured by way of program code. The one or more processors are also configured to receive conditioned operating power from the power conditioning .

The user device may also include one or more other resources . Non limiting examples of such other resources include a display audio input or output a camera a satellite navigation receiver cellular communications resources and so forth. The one or more other resources may be respectively or collectively configured to receive conditioned operating power from the power conditioning .

The power conditioning may also be configured to sense or measure the voltage provided by the battery and to provide a corresponding control signal . The control signal may be indicative of the battery voltage or may be asserted or encoded in response to respective voltage threshold values. For instance the control signal may be asserted or encoded when the battery voltage drops below a first threshold value such as 3.3 volts direct current VDC . The control signal may be otherwise asserted or encoded when the battery voltage drops or falls below a second threshold value such as 2.9 VDC. Other threshold voltage values indications or data may be communicated by way of the control signal .

Optionally the RF circuit may include a battery that is used to power the RF circuit during transmission of the beacon signal . As such the RF circuit would not draw energy from the battery or batteries for beacon signal transmission or other lost mode purposes. In one instance such an RF circuit may be triggered into transmitting the beacon signal by way of the control signal . In another instance the RF circuit may transmit the beacon signal at all times. The battery may be a disposable type or may be a rechargeable type that is replenished when the user device is coupled to a source of electrical energy such as a power supply. Other respective variations may also be used.

Illustrative and non limiting operations of the elements of the views are as follows The user operates the user device in a location such as an office space during the course of a workday. For purposes of the illustration it is assumed that the user intends to take the user device home after normal working hours to continue efforts on a project. However the user absentmindedly sets the user device down in a neighboring office of a colleague while discussing work details. The user then leaves for home without the misplaced user device .

In the present illustration the user arrives home and after a while realizes that the user device is not present with the other materials that they brought home from work. The user then returns to their work location to search for the misplaced user device . The user activates a locating application part of the locate module on the user device to aid them in tracking down the misplaced user device .

Meanwhile the battery of the misplaced user device has dropped in voltage below a first threshold value of 3.3 VDC. The power conditioning has communicated this voltage drop to the processor s which have responded by causing the other resources and the processor s to assume a shutdown condition. The power conditioning also asserts the control signal in accordance with the battery voltage drop below the first threshold value.

Continuing the present illustration the RF circuit responds to the control signal by transmitting the beacon signal including an identity code for the user device and an RF power level being used to transmit the beacon signal . For example each beacon signal transmission may include an identity code 1234ZXT77 and an RF power level of 0.2 Watts . Each respective transmission is relatively brief in time and is performed in one minute intervals. Thus the beacon signal is being transmitted sixty times per hour at the present rate.

In the present illustration the searching user device detects the beacon signal and alerts the user by a corresponding indication on a display. An audible ping or other sound may also be provided in the interest of additional user awareness. The searching user device also compares the 0.2 watts RF power level data with a measured power level for the detected beacon signal . The locate module interprets the comparison of the respective RF power data and measurements and calculates an estimated range of 24.0 feet to the misplaced user device . The estimated range is then presented on the display of the user device .

The user considers the estimated range value in recollection of the details of their workday and determines that the misplaced user device is likely in the neighboring colleague s office or in a break room area nearby. The user then proceeds toward those respective locations arriving at the break room first and conducting a visual search of that area.

Further to the present illustration another beacon signal transmission is sensed by the searching user device while the user is surveying the break room. Visible and audible indications of the just detected beacon signal are provided and a new estimated range value of 8.4 feet is presented. The user recognizes that this new range corresponds to the colleague s office across the hallway from the break room and proceeds thereto.

In conclusion of the present illustration the misplaced user device is located and retrieved immediately after entry into the colleague s office space. The user then momentarily touches a search done control presented on the display of the searching user device resulting in the transmission of a notification signal to the user device . The RF circuit responds to the notification signal by ceasing transmission of the beacon signals .

The user device illustrative of a lost user device is configured to transmit the beacon signal . Specifically the RF circuit of the wireless module is configured to send the beacon signal at controlled time intervals. The beacon signal includes information or data regarding the user device as depicted for purposes of non limiting illustration.

Data elements and their respective element values are depicted. A first data element is a DEVICE IDENTIFIER having an element value of 1234XZT77 . In turn a second data element is an RF SIGNAL POWER having an element value of 0.20 Watts . Thus two pieces of data regarding the user device are or encoded within or communicated by the beacon signal .

The user device serves as a search user device and is configured to detect the beacon signal by operation of the wireless module . The locate module of the user device provides for various search related operations and functions by way of executable program code circuitry or other resources. The locate module may also allow the user to request information regarding the lost user device from a server by way of one or more networks such as the Internet and so forth.

The server may be configured to acquire and store data related to one or more respective user devices such as a most recently determined geographic location a present or most recent network connection or wireless access point a user given name for the user device an identification code or serial number a model number a present configuration or resource manifest and so forth. Other user device data may also be acquired and stored as a centralized service of the server or by one or more respective servers in the course of providing various respective services.

The search user device may send a request to the server seeking data regarding the lost user device . Such a request may be issued once the user is aware that the user device has been misplaced and as a first step in the search and recovery process. The server receives the request which may identify the user and include a serial number or other identifying information specific to the lost user device . The server accesses a data structure or other data and retrieves stored information regarding the lost user device which is sent as user device data by way of the networks .

The search user device receives the user device data that includes for purposes of non limiting illustration respective element values of 376 MAIN STREET and 60.123.245.81 . In another instance the search user device has previously stored or cached one or more of the element values including most recent known location information for the lost user device . Such cached element values may be acquired during communication between the respective user devices and either directly or by way of the network s . Other modes by which element values may be acquired may also be used.

The locate module operates to process or interpret the respective element values as received with the user device data and to display corresponding interpretations to the user . For instance the user device data may indicated to the locate module that the most recent known location for the lost user device is 376 MAIN STREET . The locate module may reference or interpret that street address as the DAVIS OFFICE BUILDING and present both the element value and the interpretation on a display for the user .

The locate module may also access stored or wirelessly available network address information to determine that the Internet protocol IP address of 60.123.245.81 corresponds to a wireless access point serving office numbers through within the DAVIS OFFICE BUILDING . In turn these respective element values and their interpretations are presented on the display of the search user device .

Thus the user has initial information from which to start searching for the lost user device . The user then proceeds to the Davis Office Building and begins their electronic search in the hallway serving offices . The wireless module of the search user device operates to sense for the beacon signal . Once the beacon signal is detected the wireless module communicates element values encoded within the beacon signal to the locate module of the search user device . The locate module interprets or processes these element values and displays corresponding interpretations to the user .

Specifically the locate module associates the Device Identifier value of 1234XZT77 with the user given name of DAVID S TABLET . The locate module also compares the RF Signal Power value of 0.20 Watts with a measured signal strength for the beacon signal and calculates an estimated range of 12.4 feet to the lost user device . The user reviews the displayed interpretations and in consideration of their present location in the hallway determines that the lost user device is likely either in office number or . For purposes of illustration the user successfully locates and recovers the lost user device within office number .

The foregoing scenario illustrates some of the data element types and element values that may be used to aid a user in locating and recovering a misplaced user device . Other data types and their respective values may also be used. For instance a search user device may not be able to acquire geographic location data or last known network access information for a lost user device . Thus a user would likely begin their locating efforts at the various places that they visited within a relevant historic timeframe.

From another perspective the RF power level of the beacon signal may be boosted or adjusted during the transmission of additional data or information during each Nth iteration. For example a misplaced user device may have some most recent geographic location data for itself say by way of satellite navigation cellular locating or another technique despite the fact that the corresponding resources have been inactivated in the interest of battery protection and power conservation. The RF circuit may be configured to increase the RF broadcast power during each 10th transmission and encode the most recent geographic location data within the beacon signal returning to a lower RF power level during the other 9 beacon signal transmissions in that sequence. In this way an energy conserving approach may be taken while improving the chances of relocation and recovery by potentially greatly reducing the search area that the user must deal with. Other strategies and techniques may also be used.

A coarse location is depicted as DAVIS OFFICE BUILDING at a street address of 376 MAIN STREET . The coarse location is that of a lost user device and may be determined using signals from one or more navigation satellites one or more cellular towers or other resources external to the lost user device . Additionally such a coarse location for the lost user device may be communicated to a server as a normal part of operations performed by the lost user device such as during a work related file upload access to an online banking service and so forth.

An approximate location for the lost user device is also depicted as OFFICE 77 which is located within the coarse location . The approximate location is more accurate than the coarse location that is the approximate location encompasses less spatial volume than the coarse location . Thus knowing the approximate location for the lost user device reduces the potential area to be searched relative to knowing just the coarse location .

The approximate location may be determined using an IP address or other information for a wireless access point that the lost user device most recently connected with. For purposes of example the wireless access point serves only OFFICE 77 and thus the approximate location is correspondingly limited to a single room. In another instance an approximate location may include a plurality of rooms an entire indoor area of a residential address and so forth. The approximate location may also be communicated to the server as a normal part of lost user device operations.

A precise location for the lost user device is also depicted as a CORNER TABLE that is located within the approximate location . The precise location is where the user placed the lost user device before inadvertently losing track of it. The search user device may guide the user to the lost user device by virtue of the beacon signal and the information it may include.

The coarse location or the approximate location or both may be communicated to the search user device from the server in response to a request if either or both of these is or are available. In one or more instances either the coarse location or the approximate location or both may be encoded within the beacon signal transmissions. Having either of these bits of information can greatly reduce the search efforts and time required enabling the user to begin searching relatively close to the actual point where the lost user device is waiting. Otherwise the user is dependent upon a best guess approach having the aid of the beacon signal transmissions.

The signal timing graph is defined by a time axis and a user device battery voltage axis that is orthogonal thereto. The signal timing graph includes an illustrative battery voltage corresponding to a battery of a user device . Specifically the battery voltage curve depicts the time dependent voltage of the battery over the course of an illustrative time span. In one example the battery voltage depicts the voltage of the operating power as directly provided to the RF circuit and the power conditioning .

The signal timing graph is characterized by an initial normal operating period . During the normal operating period a user device performs various normal operations such as the execution of an application program code performing cellular based communications and so forth. Thus the battery voltage decreases over time as energy is drawn from the corresponding battery .

The voltage of the battery eventually drops or falls to a first threshold voltage . For illustration purposes the first threshold voltage is depicted as 3.3 VDC. Other suitable voltage thresholds may also be used. As the battery voltage crosses the first threshold voltage going forward in time the normal operating period ends and a beacon signal period begins. The processors and the other resources of the user device are inactivated at the beginning of the beacon signal period and remain inactive throughout.

The RF circuit transmits a beacon signal during the course of the beacon signal period . The RF circuit may be triggered by a control signal provided by the power conditioning or by one of the processors or otherwise. In another instance the RF circuit senses the voltage of the battery by way of the operating power and is self triggered into sending the beacon signals . Each transmission of the beacon signal may be performed in accordance with predetermined intervals may include or encode respective bits of information and so forth. The beacon signal period may last for several days depending on the RF broadcast power that is used the residual energy that may be drawn from the battery or other factors.

The voltage of the battery thereafter drops to a second threshold voltage . For illustration purposes the second threshold voltage is depicted as 2.9 VDC. Other suitable voltage thresholds may also be used. The battery voltage crosses the second threshold voltage continuing to decrease with time due to self discharge characteristics or other factors. The beacon signal period is now ended and a total shutdown of the user device is performed and maintained.

The RF circuit is now inactivated and remains so. Thus the beacon signals are no longer being sent. The power conditioning is also inactivated if not already so. In essence all power consuming aspects of the corresponding user device are de energized in the interest of protecting the battery against some degree of permanent damage or life cycle degradation. The various resources of the user device may again be activated and used for their respective normal functions once the battery has been suitably recharged or replaced. Salient aspects of the signal timing graph are depicted by process steps as described below.

Block discontinues most user device operations in response to a battery voltage drop to a first threshold value. For purposes of a present example the battery of the user device described above drops below 3.3 VDC the first threshold voltage . In response the processor s of the user device cause the other resources and the processors themselves to shut down and assume an inactivated mode. In one instance the processors and the other resources are totally electrically de energized drawing no power from the battery . In another example the power conditioning is similarly deactivated as well.

Block transmits wireless beacon signals until the battery voltage drops to a second threshold value. In the present example the RF circuit draws residual power directly from the battery as the operating power . The RF circuit transmits the beacon signals including information regarding the user device in accordance with various parameters such as time interval periods RF broadcast power and so forth. Such iterative transmission of the beacon signal continues until the battery voltage drops below 2.9 VDC the second threshold voltage .

Block discontinues the beacon signals . In the present example the RF circuit ceases transmission of the beacon signal in response to the battery voltage drop below 2.9 VDC. The user device is now completely shut down or essentially so with any further decrease in the battery voltage attributable to inherent self discharge or other characteristics.

In one illustrative extension of the process described above the user device may be located by someone other than the owner or designated user and connected to power so as to recharge. In such a case the beacon signal transmissions may be discontinued once the battery voltage rises to or above the first threshold voltage . Alternatively the beacon signal transmissions may be discontinued immediately in response to connection to the recharging energy source.

In yet another example a user device may be configured to send a most recent known location in response to the battery voltage dropping below the first threshold voltage or another threshold voltage greater or lesser than the first threshold voltage . Such location information may be sent to a server or to another previously designated user device or apparatus either directly or by way of the network s . The location information may be sent or transmitted while the processors or other resources are still operational. Thus a user device may anticipate the onset of beacon signal operations and send such location related information so as to aid a search user device . Other suitable operations may also be performed.

The signal timing graph is defined by a time axis and a wireless signaling axis that is orthogonal thereto. The signal timing graph includes an illustrative lost device signaling trace that includes beacon signal transmissions depicted as discrete events. Each beacon signal transmission may include information regarding a corresponding lost user device such as identity coding or naming location data an RF signal power value an instantaneous battery voltage and so forth. The lost device signaling also includes non broadcast intervals between consecutive beacon signal transmissions. Thus the beacon signals are transmitted in time intervals wherein the non broadcast interval defines the majority of the time of each respective period.

The signal timing graph also includes an illustrative search device signaling trace that includes acknowledgement signal transmissions depicted as discrete events. Each acknowledgement signal is sent from a corresponding search user device and may include information that aids in the search. Non limiting examples of such acknowledgement signal information include a received RF power value an identity of the search user device and so forth.

For purposes of illustration the lost user device is configured to alter one or more parameters of the beacon signals or their transmission rate in response to the acknowledgement signals . As depicted the beacon signals are transmitted in accordance with a first time interval rate during a power conserving call mode such as once every two minutes. This approach allows for prolonged operation from the residual power remaining in the battery thus increasing the likelihood of eventual detection.

The search user device detects the beacon signal at an event . The search user device then transmits a first acknowledgement signal shortly thereafter. The lost user device receives the acknowledgement signal and transitions from the power conserving call mode to a search assisting call mode . The beacon signals are now transmitted in accordance with a second time interval rate that is shorter than the first time interval rate such as once every thirty seconds.

The search assisting call mode provides the search user device with more frequent beacon signal information such as the RF signal power value for use in updating the estimated range values. In turn the user is assisted in expeditiously locating the lost user device . As further depicted the search user device continues to send acknowledgement signals from time to time causing the lost user device to maintain the search assisting call mode for so long as residual power within the battery allows.

The user device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the user device to communicate with various other user devices other computing devices the server web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a camera user input buttons and so forth. The I O devices may also include various navigational devices such as a navigation satellite signal receiver a compass inertial navigation accelerometers a cellular tower signal receiver or other elements or devices respectively configured for use in determining a location or coarse location for the user device . The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the user device or they may be externally placed.

The user device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other user devices web based resources servers routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The user device may also include one or more batteries for providing electrical power during normal operations. The battery or batteries may be rechargeable or disposable in nature. The user device may also include the power conditioning . The power conditioning may be configured to receive power from the battery or batteries and to condition or regulate one or more characteristics such as voltage or current perform noise filtering and so forth. The resulting conditioned operating power may then be provided to various resources of the user device . The user device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the user device .

The user device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the user device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more of the application modules . Non limiting examples of the application modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the locate module as described above.

The memory may further store a wireless module such that wireless signaling may be communicated to and from the user device . In one example the wireless module includes executable program code electronic circuitry or other resources used to control the RF circuit during the transmission of beacon signals or acknowledgement signals and so forth. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a wireless internet receiver ports or resources for wired communications and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other user devices or computing devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store device identification data such as a serial number a user selected device name or other designations or encoded data values. The device identification data may be included with information that is sent by way of a beacon signal an acknowledgement signal and so on. The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Accordingly any particular user device may be resourced and configured to act in either a lost mode or a search mode. In a lost mode the user device may transmit beacon signals in accordance with various parameters or including respective bits of information. In a search mode the user device may sense or listen for beacon signals transmit acknowledgement signals or provide indications or interpretations or any suitable combination of the foregoing to aid the user in locating a lost user device .

Block leaves a user device behind as a user departs from that location. For purposes of a present example the user operates a user device in the form of a tablet computer within a professional work environment. The user sets the user device down on a desk in a neighboring office space and unwittingly leaves it there when departing for home for the weekend. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the battery of the user device is already in a substantially depleted state exhibiting a voltage of about 3.5 VDC.

Block assumes a sleep mode for the user device in response to inactivity. In the present example the user device senses a lack of user input or other relevant activity and assumes a low power sleep mode in the interest of power conservation. However one or more resources of the user device may remain active so as to detect any user input that may occur to trigger the user device back into to an active mode or to perform other respective functions.

Block decreases a battery voltage of the user device below a first threshold value. In the present example the battery voltage decreases over the course to time due to the non zero electrical load of the user device in sleep mode as well as self discharge or other inherent factors. The battery voltage thus drops below a first threshold voltage of 3.3 VDC. The battery now has insufficient electrical energy to provide for the full active mode requirements of the user device .

Block assumes a primary shutdown mode for the user device to conserve residual power within the battery . In the present example one or more processors send respective signals causing various resources of the user device to become fully inactivated consuming zero energy. The one or more processors also assume a similar inactivated state. However an RF circuit of the user device remains active and receives operating power directly from the battery .

Block transmits beacon signals from a radio frequency circuit of the user device . In the present example the RF circuit of the user device senses the battery voltage drop below the first threshold voltage and begins sending beacon signals at time intervals according to a predetermined rate. For instance one beacon signal transmission per minute. Each beacon signal broadcast may include information about the user device such as an identification code or name a most recently determined coarse location or approximate location an RF signal power value a remaining battery voltage value and so forth. Other information may also be included. The time interval based sending of the beacon signals continues so as to aid the user in locating the user device for so long as residual power in the battery allows.

Block decreases the battery voltage of the user device below a second threshold value. In the present example the voltage of the battery decreases due to the RF circuit operations self discharge or other factors. The battery voltage eventually drops below a second threshold voltage of 2.9 VDC. Further residual power consumption now carries the risk of damage or life cycle degradation to the battery .

Block terminates transmission of the beacon signals by the RF circuit . Concluding the present example RF circuit senses that the battery has dropped below the second threshold voltage and ceases operation. Thus the beacon signals are no longer being sent. The user device has thus assumed a full power down mode in the interest of protecting the battery against undesirable damage or degradation.

Block transmits a beacon signal from a lost user device in a first mode. For purposes of a present example a user device is misplaced by the user thus becoming lost . The battery of the lost user device drops below a first threshold voltage . In response the one or more processors of the lost user device cause various resources thereof to assume a shutdown condition so as to conserve energy. In turn the RF circuit begins transmitting beacon signals at time intervals defining a first mode. The first mode may be analogous to the power conserving call mode .

Block detects the beacon signal of the lost user device using a search user device . In the present example the user realizes that the user device has been misplaced and activates a search function on a user device . While moving about the most recent areas where the user has been the search user device detects a beacon signal transmission from the lost user device .

Block transmits an acknowledgement to the lost user device from the search user device . In the present example the search user device sends an acknowledgement signal to the lost user device indicating that the most recently sent beacon signal was detected. The acknowledgement signal may also include other information such as a measured RF signal power value and so forth.

Block transmits the beacon signals from the lost user device in a second mode. In the present example the RF circuit of the lost user device receives the acknowledgement signal and transmits the beacons signals at time intervals defining a second mode. The second mode may be analogous to the search assisting call mode . As such the beacon signals are transmitted at shorter time intervals. The search user device receives updated information with each detected beacon signal and provides corresponding interpretations to the user .

Block finds lost user device and the user provides input so as to end the beacon signaling . In the present example the user uses the interpretations presented by the search user device to move progressively toward the lost user device until it is finally found. The user then presses a power button or other control on the lost user device so as to acknowledge recovery. The RF circuit responds to this input by terminating the transmission of the beacon signals .

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a nontransitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

