---

title: Sharing social network information
abstract: Social network information may be shared across online service providers. Thus, one online service provider M that maintains a membership separate from a second online service provider N may nevertheless use the social network maintained by the second online service provider N to tailor content and/or services based on such social network information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812407&OS=08812407&RS=08812407
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 08812407
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130814
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 079 522 filed Mar. 15 2005 which is a nonprovisional of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 552 718 filed Mar. 15 2004 the entireties of both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Users of an online service provider who do not have a direct relationship to one another may nevertheless be linked to one another through intermediate entities based on a personal business or other relationship among the users and the intermediate entities. For example a user A may have a friend user B who also uses that same online service provider and who has a business relationship with user C who also uses the same online service provider. Thus user A is linked to user C through user B. Such interpersonal interactions or relationships may generally be referred to as a social network. The number of intermediate entities needed to link one entity user to another may generally be referred to as the degrees of separation between those two entities users. The social network may be tracked and maintained by the online service provider. The online service provider may generate a social network by observing which users communicate with one another may build it from user created contact lists or address books or may ask the users to explicitly create their networks. Social networks may also provide a mechanism for tracking online reputations and help the users estimate how much to trust one another.

In general social network information may be shared across online service providers. Thus for instance one online service provider M that maintains a membership separate from a second online service provider N may nevertheless use the social network maintained by the second online service provider N to tailor content and or services based on such social network information.

Accordingly in one aspect social network information from a first online service provider network may be used to modify content or services provided by a second online service provider network. A request for social network information related to a user is sent to a first online service provider network. The social network information related to the user is received and content or services provided by the second online service provider network are modified based on the social network information.

Implementations of this aspect may include one or more of the following features. For example a social network id associated with a username for the user at the first online service provider network may be received and the request for the social network information may include the social network id. The first online service provider network then may determine the social network information related to the user based on this social network id.

Similarly a social network id associated with a username for a second user at the first online service provider may be received as part of a web page provided by the second online service provider network. The social network id may be associated with content in the web page added by the second user or contact information for the second user in the web page. The request for social network information related to the user may include this social network id and a username for the user at the first online service provider network. The first online service provider network then may determine the social network information related to the user based on the social network id and the username of the user. The web page then may be modified based on the social network information.

Modifying the web page may include highlighting or changing the position of the content added to the web page by the second user and or highlighting the contact information for the second user in the web page. The web page may be modified based on the degrees of separation between the user and the second user. For instance modifying the web page may additionally or alternatively include displaying a visual cue in proximity to the content added to the web page by the second user or the contact information for the second user in the web page where the visual cue indicates the number of degrees of separation between the user and the user requesting the web page. Similarly modifying the web page may alternatively or additionally include changing the position of the content added to the web page by the second user based on the number of degrees of separation between the user and the second user.

Reputation information for the second user may be used to modify the web page or other content or services. For instance the social network information may include a value representing a reputation of the second user among members of a social network including the user. The web page then may be modified for example by displaying a visual cue that indicates the value of the reputation for the second user and or by changing the position of the content added to the web page by the second user based on the value representing the reputation of the second user.

An application for example may log into the first online service provider network under a username for the user established at the first online service provider network. The username and an identifier of a server for example a web server on the second online service provider network may be sent to the first online service provider network by the application. The first online service provider network may generate a social network id based on the username and identifier and associates the social network id with the username. The application then may receive the social network id from the first online service provider network and sending the social network id to the server on the second online service provider network. That server then may associate the social network id with an account for the user maintained by the second online service provider.

The second online service provider network may maintain a first social network having members including the user. In addition the social network information received from the first online service provider network may include information regarding members of a second social network that includes the user maintained by the first online service provider network. The members of the first social network may be linked to members of the second social network using the received information regarding members of the first social network.

The user may be one for example that has requested the content or services provided by the second online service provider network that has added content to the content or content or services provided by the second online service provider network or that is a user whose contact information is display in the content or services provided by the second online service provider.

In another aspect a social network server maintained on a online service provider network includes a processor and memory that stores instructions for causing the processor to perform particular operations. As a result of those instructions the social network server may maintain data indicating one or more social networks for members of the online service provider network. The social network server also may receive a request from a system that is separate from the online service provider network for social network information related to a user. The social network server may determine the social network information related to the user based on the data indicating one or more social network maps and make the determined social network information related to the user accessible to the system that is separate from the online service provider network.

Implementations of this aspect may include one or more of the following features. For instance the system that is separate from the online service provider network may be a client system or a server maintained on a second online service provider network. The social network server may receive from the system that is separate form the online service provider network a request for a social network id for the user generate a social network id for the user associate the social network id with a username and send the generated social network id to the system that is separate from the online service provider network.

The request for the social network id may include the username and an identification of a server maintained on a second online service provider network. The social network server may generate the social network id based on the username and the identification of the server maintained on the second online service provider network. A request for social network information may include the social network id and the social network id may be used with the data indicating the one or more social networks to determine the social network information.

Implementations of the techniques discussed herein may include hardware a method or process or computer software on a computer accessible medium. The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

The techniques described in this document may allow social network information to be shared across online service providers. Thus one online service provider M that maintains a membership separate from a second online service provider N may nevertheless use the social network maintained by the second online service provider N to tailor content and or services based on such social network information.

Generally the terms member user and entity are used interchangeably throughout this description. These terms however should not be seen as limited to a person. For example an organization such as a corporation also may use the services provided by an online service provider. Consequently these terms should be seen as encompassing any entity actual legal or otherwise that uses a service provider network.

In general entities may be members of an online service provider. The online service provider may maintain a network that provides its members with content and or one or more communication services such as chat instant messaging IM e mail message boards and member directories. An entity may use a client application to connect to the online service provider s network through a global network such as the Internet and to logon to the online service provider s network by providing a screenname otherwise referred to as a username and password that have previously been established with the online service provider. Once the entity is authenticated the client application may be used by the entity to access the content and communication services provided by the online service provider s network. The communication services may allow the entity to communicate with other members of the online service provider. The online service provider may provide access to different communications services depending on a level of access granted to the entity and or based on the client application used by the entity to connect to the online service provider s network.

America Online Inc. of Dulles Va. is an example of an online service provider that maintains an online service provider network. America Online allows entities who subscribe to the America Online service to connect to the America Online network using the AOL client application. These entities are then able to access the proprietary content and communication services provided by the America Online network. Some of the content and communication services for example message boards are only available to entities who subscribe to the America Online service and who connect to the America Online network using the AOL client application. America Online also provides instant messaging services to entities regardless of whether they subscribe to the America Online service through the AOL instant messaging AIM client application. An entity may use the AIM client application to connect to the America Online network and to use the instant messaging services provided by the America Online network. More generally an online service provider network refers to one or more servers that provide some online service or content that users register to use or view.

Members of an online service provider may use the online service to maintain user contact lists e.g. address books or instant messaging contact lists . For example the AIM client application allows a user to maintain a contact list referred to as a Buddy List that includes the screennames of the entities to whom the user of the AIM client desires to send instant messages.

Such contact lists may be evaluated to determine the links and the degrees of separation between two entities. For example entity A may list entity B in entity A s instant messaging contact list entity B may list entity C in entity B s instant messaging contact list and entity C may list entity D in entity C s instant messaging contact list. Here entity B is zero degrees of separation away from A that is there are no intermediate nodes between them . Entity C is one degree of separation away from A they are separated by B . Entity D is two degrees of separation away from A they are linked via entities B and C .

The online service provider may automatically map a first entity s social network e.g. the entire social network or up to a designated number of degrees of separation for example by evaluating the first entity s contact list s and then successively evaluating the contact list s of those entities listed in the first entity s contact list until the desired number of degrees have been reached or until the entire network has been mapped. For example entity A may list entities B and C in entity A s instant messaging contact list. A system may evaluate and determine that entities B and C are so listed and construct a social network map that indicates that entities B and C are linked to entity A. The online service provider may then evaluate the contact lists of entities B and C to determine the entities to which entities B and C are linked. For example the system may determine that entity B s instant messaging contact list includes entities D and E and consequently that B is linked to D and E. The system then may refine the social network map to indicate that A is linked directly to B and C and is also linked to D and E through B. The online service provider may additionally or alternatively use other techniques to map a social network. For example the online service provider may observe which users communicate with one another and or may ask the users to explicitly create their networks

The online service provider may store such information about its members as a social network map graph or list. The online service provider may make such social network information available to third party service provider networks i.e. networks of one or more servers that provide content or services separate from those provided by the online service provider such as for example a web server that is separate from the online service provider s network .

For example in one implementation a client system may execute a social network client application that logs into the online service provider s network. The client system also may execute a web browser that requests a web page from a third party web server. The web page may include social network display code. The social network display code may communicate with the social network client application to request social network information regarding the user of the client system. The social network client application then may use an application programming interface to retrieve social network information for the user of the client system from a social network server on the online service provider network. The social network client application then returns the social network information to the social network display code of the web page which modifies the web page based on the social network information. Thus the web page for example can be modified based upon the social network relationship between the viewer of the web page and the creator of content in the web page or the user corresponding to contact information displayed in the web page content.

For instance if the web page provides newsgroup posts or other content that is added by users of the website the social network display code may change the order of the posts based on the social network information. The social network display code may for instance move posts added by the users in the client system user s social network to the top of the web page and or may order them based on the number of degrees of separation between the user who added the post and the client system user. The social network code may alternatively or additionally order the posts based on the posting user s reputation in the social network of the client system user. Ordering or otherwise changing the position of added content on a web page based on the social network information may for example help alleviate problems related to spam content or posts.

As another example a visual cue may be displayed to an entity viewing contact or other information displayed on a web page to represent another entity. The visual cue may directly indicate the degrees of separation between the entity whose contact information is displayed and the entity who is viewing the contact information may display the pathway between the two and or indicate reputation information. For example if a potential buyer A is reading a post by a seller B where the post displays seller B s contact information on an online auction site such as the online auction provided by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. and buyer A is linked to seller B by six degrees of separation then a visual cue may be displayed in association with seller B s contact information to indicate to buyer A that entities A and B are linked and separated by six degrees of separation. The visual cue may alternatively or additionally indicate whether members of user A s social network have marked user B with a positive or negative reputation.

Similarly if a job hunter A is reading a post by an employer B where the post displays entity B s contact information on an employment website and the job hunter A and employer B are separated by three degrees of separation a visual cue may indicate that they are separated by three degrees and may additionally or alternatively indicate the path between the two. Providing such information may make a buyer more comfortable buying from the seller in the case of an online auction or in the case of the employment website may provide information about contacts that can be leveraged by the job hunter to obtain employment with the employer or help the employer determine whether to hire the job seeker.

Service provider network may be one like the network provided by America Online . However as described above an online service provider network more generally refers to one or more servers that provide some online service or content that users register to use or view. For example social network websites such as the ones provided by Tribe Networks Inc. of San Francisco Calif. located at www.tribe.net and LinkedIn Corporation of Palo Alto Calif. located at www.linkedin.com may be referred to as online service provider networks. Users register with these websites to obtain a username and password which the users then use to log onto these websites to access the social network services provided by these websites. As another example some websites such as web logs or websites that provide access to newsgroups or forums allow users to post comments or other content. Before such websites allow users to post content the websites typically require users to register with the website to obtain credentials such as a username and password which the user then uses to log into the website and post content.

Service provider network includes a login server that allows a client application to log into service provider network using for example a screenname and password. The screenname or username used to log into service provider network is referred to as a service provider username. Once the client application is authenticated and logged into the service provider network by login server the client application can then access some or all of the services or content provided by service provider network . Service provider network also includes a social network server that determines the social network map s or list s for members of online service provider network and makes such social network information available for use in modifying a third party provider s content or services as described further below.

Client systems and each include respectively a web browser or and a social network client application or . Social network client applications and log into the service provider network using the client system users credentials and act as intermediaries to obtain social network information for the client system users as described further below. The social network client applications and may be client applications such as an instant messaging client or an online service provider client like the AOL client used by users to access services or content provided by the service provider network . Alternatively social network client applications and may be applications that simply act as intermediaries to obtain the social network information. Social network client applications and may be plug ins for web browsers and or other applications or they may be stand alone applications or services on client systems and that may or may not have a user interface.

From the standpoint of the online service provider network network is a third party service provider network i.e. it provides content and or services that are not part of service provider network . In this example third party service provider network includes a web server . Web server provides web pages for example to web browsers or . The web pages provide content or services that can be viewed or used by the users of client systems and . As further described below while illustrated as including a web server other implementations of third party service provider network may in addition or as an alternative to web server include other types of servers that provide content or services which may or may not be accessed by client applications other than web browsers and . For example the third party service provider network may include an e mail server that provides e mail service that is accessed by an e mail client or an instant messaging server that provides instant messaging service to an instant messaging client. Third party online service provider network may be a network similar to the AOL network. Third party online service provider may maintain its own social network for the members of third party service provider network .

To obtain the content or services from third party service provider network a user such as the user of client system first registers with web server to establish a username which is referred to as a third party username and may be different from the service provider username that is established for service provider network and a password. The username and password are then used by the user of client system to log onto web server and access the content or services. As described more fully below in one implementation the web page that is used by the user of client system to register with the web site contains code such as javascript that communicates with social network client application to obtain a unique id from social network server . The unique id is associated with the service provider username. This unique id is then returned to web server when the user completes the registration and is associated with the user s account information including the third party username stored by web server . Thus for this user web server now stores both a third party username and a unique id provided by social network server . Then when the user s third party username or other contact information is displayed in a web page or content is posted to a web page by the user the unique id is associated with the contact information or content displayed in the web page.

When a second user such as the user of client system using web browser subsequently requests a web page that contains the contact information or content created by the user of system the associated unique id for the user of system is provided along with that contact information and or content. The web page provided by web server also includes code such as javascript that communicates the unique id to social network client application which uses the unique id which is associated with the service provider username of the user of client system and the service provider username of the user of client system to obtain social network information from social network server regarding the relationship between the user of client system and the user of client system . The code uses this social network information to modify the display of the web page. For instance if the user of client system is in the social network of the user of client system the content posted by the user of client system is identified by the associated unique id and may be highlighted or moved to the top of the web page.

Each of the client systems and web server login server and social network server may be implemented using for example a general purpose computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner a personal computer a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component or other equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. Client systems and web server login server and social network server may receive instructions from for example a software application a program a piece of code a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof which independently or collectively direct operations as described herein. The instructions may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component equipment storage medium or propagated signal that is capable of being delivered to client systems and web server login server or social network server .

Network may include the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or a Digital Subscriber Line xDSL or any other wired or wireless network. Network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway.

Next the contacts linked to the user through the user s contacts in the contact list e.g. up to a desired degree of separation are identified and added to the social network list. To do so the contact lists of each contact in the user s contact list are accessed . The contacts in those lists i.e. the contacts separated by one degree then are added to the social network list . If another degree of separation is desired the degree of separation is incremented such that the contact lists of the contacts that are separated from the recipient by one degree are accessed and the contacts in those contact lists are added to the social network list .

When a contact is added to the social network list the contact s degree of separation from the user also is added and in addition the contact that links the user to the added contact may be stored so that an indication can be provided of the path between the user and the added contact. The addition of contacts continues until the desired degree of separation is reached at which point the social network list is stored for later use .

The above process can be modified in a number of ways. For example at times it may be desirable to have greater assurance that a relationship actually exists between two users before indicating that the two users are directly linked. That is the before a first user is included in a social network it may be desirable to have greater assurance that there is a relationship between the first user and a second user which connects the first user to the social network. In particular implementations such assurance can be obtained by requiring that two entities list each other in their respective contact lists before the entities are considered as having a relationship and therefore are directly linked . In such implementations an increased likelihood of a relationship between two users is assumed to exist when the two users list each other in their respective contact lists. Thus for example before a second user listed in a first user s contact list is added to the first user s social network list the second user s contact list may be accessed to determine if the first user is listed in the second user s contact list. If such a bidirectional link exists then the second user is added to the first user s social network list.

The contact lists used to develop the social network list or otherwise used to map a social network may be stored centrally or in a distributed fashion. For example the techniques may be applied to an environment in which all of the users contact lists are stored on a single server completely centralized or on a single cluster of servers owned by the service provider partially centralized distributed . The contact lists may be stored in a more fully distributed fashion by being stored on each client system i.e. each user s contact list is stored on the user s client system . The contact lists may then be accessed by social network server when social network client application or is logged into service provider network and temporarily or permanently stored by social network server to develop the social network lists.

Social network list for User contains indications of the entities to which User is linked the degrees of separation between User and the linked entities and the entities linking the linked entity to the social network . For instance an indication of User is included along with an indication that User is two degrees of separation from User. There also is an indication that User is the entity that links User to social network and hence User . Including the entity linking a particular entity to the social network allows the structure of the social network to be determined from the social network list. As an alternative the entity linking a particular entity to the social network may be excluded. For instance the social network list may only contain an indication of the entity and its degrees of separation. The social network may alternatively or additionally contain more detailed information about the relationships between the users such as the degree to which particular users trust or distrust other particular users and or and indication of the strength of the links between users.

While the process described with respect to determines existing social networks from for example contact lists other ways of forming determining or tracking social networks may alternatively or additionally be used. For instance instead of determining existing social networks the online service provider may provide tools to users so that they can positively create social networks for use with the social network websites described above. For instance the online service provider may support an invite accept model for forming social networks. In an invite accept model to become part of a social network a user receives an invitation from another user to join the social network i.e. to be linked to the other user . When the user accepts the invitation he or she is linked to the other user and hence the social network. The online service provider then may use social network lists or other techniques to track the links between members of the various social networks.

An invite accept model may be used in conjunction with the techniques described above for determining an existing social network using for example contact lists. For instance the social network list may be constructed using contact lists as described above. Then as the user receives and accepts invitations to join other social networks the social network list may be updated to include those directly linked users that the user accepted and the other users linked at further degrees of separation.

In some implementations the online service provider may observe the communications between users to determine the social network or to infer the strength of the links between users. For example the online service provider may observe that two users communicate using instant messaging and therefore are linked to one another. The online service provider then may observe the frequency of the users communication to a determine the strength of the link between the two. Users who communicate more frequently for instance may have a link with a higher strength than users that communicate less frequently.

Login server then authenticates the credentials and assuming the credentials are authentic logs social network client application into service provider network . Once login server logs in social network client application login server sends a response back to social network client application indicating that the login was successful .

Web browser then requests the registration page an example is shown in from web server . Web server returns the registration web page which includes social network registration code to web browser which renders the registration web page .

Referring to web page may include a mechanism such as a checkbox that allows the user of client system to indicate that his or her social network information maintained by service provider network should be associated with the account on web server . Web page also includes text fields and that allow the user to enter his or her name text boxes and that allow the user to establish a third party username and password by entering them into text boxes and respectively and a text box that allows the user to enter his or her e mail address. Once the user has entered this information he or she may select submit button to complete registration by sending this registration information to web server .

The social network registration code is executed when the user indicates that the social network information should be associated with the account on web server for example by selecting checkbox . The social network registration code may be implemented in for example javascript or another scripting language supported by web browser or may be implemented for example as an ActiveX control or Java applet.

Referring again to when executed the social network registration code passes a request for a social network id to social network client application . The social network registration code may pass the request for example using an interprocess communication protocol. Alternatively social network client application may implement a server such as a web server that listens at a specified port on client system . In such a case the social network registration code may pass the request to the server by sending a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or other protocol request to the server at the open port.

The request passed to social network client application may include a unique identifier for web server such as the uniform resource locator URL for web server . Social network client application then requests a social network id from social network server . To do so social network client application may send to social network server the unique identifier for web server and the service provider username used by social network client application to log onto service provider network . Social network client application may do so for example by using an application programming interface API provided for social network server . The API may implement a function similar to the following getSocialNetworkID current username URL where current username is equal to the service provider username used by social network client application to log into service provider network and URL is equal to the unique identifier of web server . Social network client application may call such a function to obtain the social network id from social network server .

Social network server then generates a unique social network id and associates that social network id with the service provider username used by social network client application to log onto service provider network . Social network server may generate a social network id that is unique from other social network ids and is specific to web server . For example social network server may apply a hash function that generates unique ids to a concatenation of the web server URL and service provider username. Accordingly if the user of client system visits another web server and associates the social network information with the different web server a different unique social network id will be created specifically for that different server and associated with the service provider username. In other words a particular service provider username may have different social network ids for each different website. This process of having the browser connect from the client via the social network application may prevent the third party service provider from being able to directly determine the service provider username and may thereby afford the user a measure of security and anonymity. The inclusion of a site identifier to generate the unique social network id may prevent other web sites from copying data in an attempt to spoof the social network.

After generating the social network id social network server returns the social network id to social network client application which in turn returns the social network id to the social network registration code . The social network registration code may for example store the social network id in a variable that is returned to web server .

As the social network registration code obtains the social network id the user may enter a username and password for web server that is a third party username and password and provide other registration information by entering such information into text boxes and on web page . The user then may submit this information and complete registration for example by selecting submit button on registration web page . After the user selects the submit button web browser submits the information entered into text boxes along with the social network id to web server .

Web server then generates an account for the user and stores the registration information in the account along with the social network id . While not shown in when a user subsequently wishes to access content or services provided by web server a login web page is obtained from web server and the user enters his or her third party username and password into the login web page and submits these credentials to web server . Once logged in the user can access the content or services provided by web server such as adding content to web pages or communicating with other users of web server .

Web browser then requests a web page examples are shown in from web server and web server returns the web page . The web page retrieved may include the username or other contact information for and or content added by users such as the user of client system . For users such as the user of client system that have associated their social network information with their account for web server the content added by these users or the contact information for these users has the user s corresponding social network id associated with the content or contact information.

Web pages are typically written in the hypertext markup language HTML or other markup language such as the extensible markup language XML . In such languages tags are used to define how a web browser should display the content of the web page. One method of associating the social network id with content or contact information is to set the id attribute of a tag surrounding the added content or contact information equal to the users social network id.

The following is a simple example of a portion of the HTML of a web page using such a technique to associate a social network id with the content added by the corresponding user 

In this example the id attribute of the tag which represents a paragraph is set equal to a social network id of 235678 which for example may be the social network id for the user of client system

In addition to having social network ids associated with added content or contact information the retrieved web page includes social network display code which similarly to the social network registration code may be implemented for example in javascript or another scripting language or may be implemented for example as an ActiveX control or Java applet. After web browser receives the web page web browser begins rendering the web page which executes the social network display code. For example if javascript is used then the social network display code may be executed in response to the on Load event.

When executed the social network registration code passes a request for social network information to social network client application . As with the social network registration code the social network display code may pass the request for example using an interprocess communication protocol or by sending a request to server implemented by the social network client application

The request passed to social network client application includes one or more of the social network ids and may specify a type of social network information requested depending on how the web page is to be modified. For example the social network display code may highlight content added by users within a certain number of degrees of separation or may modify the page to reflect the degrees of separation. In such a case only the degrees information needs to be request. Alternatively or additionally for example the social network display code may modify the web page to display the pathway between two users. In such a case the social network display code may request the path information i.e. which users connect the two users and how . As another example the social network display code may highlight contact information for and or content created by users with particularly good reputations. The social network display code may alternatively or additionally hide contact information for or content created by users with bad reputations. In another scenario the social network display code may reorder the content such that content created by users with good reputations is shown first. In such instances the social network display code may request the reputation information.

Social network client application then requests the social network information from social network server . To do so social network client application may send social network server the social network ids provided by the social network display code the service provider username used by social network client application to log onto service provider network and other information as necessary. Social network client application may do so for example by using an API provided for social network server . Depending on the information requested by the social network display code different types of information may be accessed through the API. For example the API may have a number of different functions that can be called based on the information requested by the social network display code. For example the API may have the functions similar to the following 

Thus depending on the information needed social client network application may call the appropriate function and pass the service provider username used by social network application to log into the service provider network through the current username variable pass the social network ids provided to social network client application by social network display code through the variable sn id equal and if needed pass a number of degrees of separation requested by social network display code through the variable degrees. The unique site id identifier may also be passed to social network server in order to verify that the social network ids were actually registered with the site for which the social network code and or social network client application is requesting information.

Social network server then uses the social network ids to determine the corresponding service provider usernames. Using the determined usernames and the username provided by social network client application social network server then determines the requested social network information using for example a social network list such as the one shown in .

Social network server then returns the requested social network information to social network client application which in turn returns the requested social network information to the social network display code . Based on the requested social network information the social network client code modifies the display of the web page. To do so for example the social network code may access the document object model DOM of the web page and modify nodes of the DOM as appropriate to modify the web page based on the social network information. For example when the id attribute in a tag surrounding content added by a user is set to the user s social network id the social network display code may access the corresponding node using the social network id. After accessing the node for instance the social network display code may move the node thereby changing where the content is displayed on the page . The social network display code may add highlighting or perform other style changes to the node or a child node that represents the added content.

There are a number of ways a page can be modified based on social network information. For example as described above the position of content added to a web page by users may be changed based on the social network information. Thus for instance content added by users not in the viewing user s social network may be hidden or moved towards the bottom of the web page. The content added by users may be ordered on the web page according to the number of degrees of separation between the users and the viewing user by the social network reputations for the content authors or based on the link strength between relationships in the social network.

As another example the added content or contact information of a user may be modified to reflect the social network information. For example a visual cue may be associated with the content or contact information to indicate the degrees of separation between the viewing user and the author of the content or the user corresponding to the contact information and or the reputation of the content author. For instance an icon may be displayed next to the contact information or content or a color may be associated with the contact information or content. The color may be associated for example by highlighting or changing the color of the contact information e.g. the second user s screen name or e mail address or added content. The color may directly indicate the degrees of separation between the users by corresponding to a particular number of degrees. For instance green may correspond to one degree of separation while red corresponds to two degrees of separation. In another case the color of the icon may represent the reputation of the user to which it is linked. As yet another example the pathway between the viewing user and the author of the added content or the user corresponding to displayed contact information may be displayed in the web page or may be displayed in a pop up web page that is invoked if the contact information or content is selected by the viewing user. Thus the social network display code may modify the web page to provide a pop up that displays the pathway when the contact information or content is selected.

As an example of one way in which the social network display code may modify web page shows web page rendered in browser without being modified while shows web page modified according to social networking information. In this example web page provides access to newsgroups such as the USENET newsgroups.

Referring to web page includes a section that includes a link and links . Selecting link retrieves a web page that allows the user to browse the various newsgroups and select one newsgroup to view the posts to that newsgroup. Links reflect recently viewed newsgroups and when one of links is selected the corresponding newsgroup is displayed.

Web page also includes a section that displays headers for posts to the currently selected newsgroup. A title displays the name of the currently selected newsgroup.

There are three headers shown header and . Header is listed first at the top header is listed second and header is listed last at the bottom . Headers display some information about each post such as for example a title for the post the username or e mail address of the user who added the post and a brief synopsis of the post. Headers also include a link to view the entire post. For example header displays the title Hello yall check this out the e mail address dl1618 hotmail.com the synopsis that starts with Free quick easy money period and a hyperlink Read More that allows the user to view the entire post.

Accordingly the social network display code after receiving the degrees of separation information has modified the order in which headers are displayed. Social network display code has modified headers such that header is displayed first at the top because the fewest number of degrees of separation exist between the user of client system and the user that added the post corresponding to header . In addition header is listed second and header is listed last because the user of client system is not connected to the user that added the post corresponding to header

As other examples show various ways in which a web page may be modified according to social networking information. In these examples web page provides access to an auction on an auction web site.

Referring to web page includes a title that describes the item being auctioned. Web page also includes a section that provides information about the auction such as the starting bid the time left until the auction is over the location of the item being auctioned where the seller is willing to ship the item and the shipping cost of the item being auctioned. A button allows a user to place a bid on the item being auctioned.

A section includes information about the seller of the item. Section includes hyperlinks that allow the user to access to access feedback comments added by other users who have bought items from the seller to send a question to the seller and to view other items for sale or auction by the seller. Section also displays the date when the seller became a member of the auction site and a feedback rating which may be based on negative or positive comments the seller has received from other users.

Contact information for the seller is also displayed in section . In this case the contact information is the third party username for the seller the example Eric being shown . The social network display code has modified web page to display an icon next to contact information . Icon displays the number of degrees of separation between the user viewing web page for example the user of client system and the seller.

Referring to in one implementation web page also is modified so that a user is able to invoke a pop up window that displays the pathway between the user and the seller. Window can be invoked for example by selecting icon . Window represents the user viewing web page as You and represents the intermediate entities and the seller by their respective service provider usernames. In the example shown the user indicated by You is linked to User who in turn is linked to the seller whose service provider username is User.

For privacy concerns some users may not want to have their information displayed in a pathway such as the pathway . To accommodate such concerns some implementations may permit users to opt out of having their information displayed in a pathway that connects a user to a linked user. For a user who has opted out of having information shown pathway may be modified for example by changing the user s screenname to unknown for example.

Referring to in another implementation web page also is modified so that a user is able to invoke a pop up window that displays profile information for the seller stored on service provider network . Social network display code may request such profile information from social network client application which in turn retrieves such information from social network server or another server. Window can be invoked for example by selecting icon . Window includes a section that presents profile information for the seller stored by service provider network such as the seller s name job title addresses phone numbers and interests.

Using an architecture such as the one shown in where social network client application executing on a client system retrieves social network information and the content is modified based on the social network information using social network display code in the web page may provide improved scalability as compared to an architecture in which web server retrieves social network information such as the one describe below with respect to . The improved scalability may allow web server to handle larger numbers of users at the same computing power of web server . Architectures in which web server or another server on third party service provider network retrieves social network information may however be more desirable depending on how social network information is used to modify the content or services of the third party service provider network .

Referring to in another implementation web server may request the social network information from social network server and modify the web page based on this social network information before the web page is sent to web browser . If the user who is requesting the web page such as the user of client system has also registered with web server using the process and communications described with respect to then web server may also be storing a social network id for that user. That is for example web server may have stored a social network id for the user of client system and a social network id for the user of client system . The user of client system may log onto web server before requesting a web page so as to thereby allow web server to identify and access the social network id of the user of client system . Accordingly if the user of client system uses web browser to request a web page that contains content added by or contact information for the user of client system web server may access the social network ids for both of these users and use the social network ids to request social network information from social network server . Web server then may modify the web page based on this social network information and send the modified web page to web browser

More particularly collectively show examples of communications and a process for such an implementation. The user may use web browser to log onto web server and request a web page that contains content added by or contact information for other users such as the user of client system . The content added by the users or the contact information for the users may be associated with the social network id of the corresponding user. The social network ids may be associated with the content or contact information by being embedded in the HTML of the web page for example by using the id attribute as described above. Alternatively web server may use a program such as a common gateway interface CGI script to generate the HTML or other markup for the web page and the other components the web page e.g. scripts . In such a situation the content or contact information may be stored in a database or other storage until the web page is requested. When the web page is requested the CGI script accesses the content or contact information to dynamically generate the web page. In such a situation the social network id may be associated with the content or contact information in the database or other storage.

Web server then requests the social network information from social network server . For example the request for the web page may be directed to a program such as a CGI script executing on web server . When the request for the web page is received the CGI script then accesses the social network id of the requesting user and the social network ids associated with the content or contact information to be included in the web page for example by accessing the HTML or other mark up of the web page or by accessing a database that stores the content or contact information . The CGI script then may send to social network server the social network ids and other information as necessary. The CGI script may do so for example by using an API provided for social network server . Functions similar to those described above may be implemented by the API. For example the API may have the functions similar to the following 

Social network server then uses the social network ids to determine the corresponding service provider usernames. Using the usernames social network server then determines the requested social network information using for example a social network list such as the one shown in and returns the requested social network information to web server e.g. to the CGI script executing on web server if implemented .

Web server then modifies the web page based on the social network information . For example if a program such as a CGI script is implemented the CGI script may modify the HTML or other markup of the web page based on the social network information. Alternatively the CGI script may dynamically generate the HTML or other markup for the web page and other components of the web page modifying the web page based on the social network information as the web page is generated. The web page may be modified in the ways described above such as reordering highlighting or deleting content or contact information inserting social network information into the web page or making social network information or other information available in for example a pop up window. Web server then sends the modified web page to web browser which then renders the web page .

Referring to in other implementations third party service provider network may maintain a social network for the members of third party online service provider network referred to as a third party social network and may use the third party social network in providing services or content to the members of online service provider network . In addition the third party service provider network may modify these services or content based on the social network maintained by online service provider network . That is a user may be a member of both the third party social network maintained by third party online service provider and a member of the social network maintained by online service provider .

In general if the user of third party network such as the user of client system has registered using the process and communications described with respect to then third party online service provider network may also be storing a social network id for that user. The third party online service provider network may use the social network id to retrieve social network information related to the user from the social network maintained by the service provider network . This retrieved social network information may be used to modify the content or services provided by the third party service provider network based on the third party social network.

In particular with respect to the third party online service provider uses social network information to inform filtering of e mail. In this implementation third party online service provider network includes an e mail server in place of or in addition to web server . Third party online service provider network also includes a social network server referred to as a third party social network sever which may be similar to social network server except that third party social network server maintains social network information for the members of third party online service provider network . The user of client system may use an e mail client instead of web browser to access e mail from e mail server

Third party online service provider network may use social network information of example to create a trusted list of senders for a user such as the user of client system and use the trusted list to inform filtering of the e mails sent to the user. For example the e mail server may use the trusted list as a white list to allow e mail from e mail addresses on the trusted list while blocking e mail from e mail addresses not on the trusted list. Methods of filtering e mail or other communications based on trusted lists developed from social network information is further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 746 232 filed Dec. 29 2003 and titled Degrees of Separation for Handling Communications which is incorporated herein in its entirety for all purposes.

Social network server uses the social network id to determine the associated username. The associated username is then used to determine the users within the specified degrees of separation and their corresponding e mail addresses . Once determined social network server returns the e mail addresses to social network server .

Social network server returns to e mail sever the e mail addresses retrieved from social network server in addition to the e mail addresses of users within the third party social network that are within the specified degrees of separation . E mail server uses the e mail addresses to generate the trusted list and to filter or otherwise modify the e mails received for the user accordingly . When e mail client application subsequently requests the e mails for the user of client system e mail server provides the filtered or otherwise modified e mails to e mail client application which displays them to the user .

A number of other implementations are possible depending on the content or services provided by third party service provider and the social network information made available through the API for social network server . For example in an implementation similar to that shown in the third party service provider network may provide general social network services such as those provided by Friendster Inc. of Silicon Valley Calif. located at www.friendster.com . Such services allow a user to view profiles and access content maintained by members of the user s social network in addition to allowing the user to communicate with members of the user s social network. Through the API provided for social network server information may be retrieved for the members in the user s social network maintained by online service provider and the information may be used to link those members through the user to the members in the user s social network maintained by social network server . Such information may include profiles or content maintained by these members and or contact information for these members. This may allow members of the user s third party social network maintained by third party service provider to be connected through the user to members of the user s social network maintained by online service provider and may allow members of the third party social network to navigate to interact with or view information about the members of the user s social network maintained by online service provider and may provide mechanisms for the members of the user s third party social network to communicate with the members of the user s social network maintained by online service provider . For example a member of the user s third party social network may be able to access profile information for a member of the user s social network maintained by service provider . The profile information may contain contact information for the member such as an e mail address for an e mail account provided by service provider .

Instead of showing the member s contact information the third party service provider network may provide a form such as a web form for the member of the third party social network to enter and send messages to the other member. Once the member submits the message the third party service provider network may send the message using for example the other member s e mail address for an e mail account provided by service provider .

In addition one user in a social network may try to access content maintained by another user in the social network. For example a first user may attempt to access a calendar maintained by a second user. Whether the user can access the calendar or what information is shown on the calendar may be based on the types of relationships connecting the first user to the second user e.g. whether the relationships are family relationships friend relationships or business relationships . Such techniques are more fully described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 079 524 filed concurrently with this application on Mar. 15 2005 titled Social Networking Permissions now U.S. Pat. No. 8 595 146 issued Nov. 26 2013 and incorporated herein in its entirety for all purposes. The third party online service provider network may communicate with social network server to implement such permissions across the service provider boundaries. For example a member of the third party social network may be connected to a member of the social network maintained by online service provider network through a user that is a member of both networks. The member of the third party social network may use the services provided by third party service provider to attempt to access content maintained by the member of the online service provider . Third party social network server and social network server may communicate to determine the type of access based on the types of relationships connecting the members and to provide the appropriate type of access to the requested content.

The techniques described above are not limited to any particular hardware or software configuration. Rather they may be implemented using hardware software or a combination of both. The methods and processes described may be implemented as computer programs that are executed on programmable computers comprising at least one processor and at least one data storage system. The programs may be implemented in a high level programming language and may also be implemented in assembly or other lower level languages if desired.

Any such program will typically be stored on a computer usable storage medium or device e.g. CD Rom RAM or magnetic disk . When read into the processor of the computer and executed the instructions of the program cause the programmable computer to carry out the various operations described above.

Furthermore elements of different implementations may be combined deleted added supplemented or modified to yield further implementations. In addition actions or communications do not necessarily need to occur in the order in which they are depicted. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

