---

title: Wearable augmented reality eyeglass communication device including mobile phone and mobile computing via virtual touch screen gesture control and neuron command
abstract: Provided are an augmented reality eyeglass communication device and a method for facilitating shopping using an augmented reality eyeglass communication device. The augmented reality eyeglass communication device may comprise a frame, and a right earpiece and a left earpiece connected to the frame. Furthermore, the eyeglass communication device may comprise a processor configured to receive one or more commands of a user, perform operations associated with the commands of the user, receive product information, and process the product information. The eyeglass communication device may comprise a display connected to the frame and configured to display data received from the processor. In addition to that, the eyeglass communication device may comprise a transceiver electrically connected to the processor and configured to receive and transmit data over a wireless network. The eyeglass communication device may comprise a Subscriber Identification Module card slot, a camera, an earphone, a microphone, and a charging unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09153074&OS=09153074&RS=09153074
owner: 
number: 09153074
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130822
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 855 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL EYEGLASS DEVICE filed on Jan. 30 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING filed on Jul. 18 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 776 852 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL FLEXIBLE CLOUD GAME MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION AND COMPUTING DEVICE filed on Feb. 26 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 287 279 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO ADVERTISE AND SELL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES VIA CLOUD GAMING ENVIRONMENTS filed on Nov. 2 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

This application relates generally to wearable personal digital interfaces and more specifically to an augmented reality eyeglass communication device.

Typically a person who goes shopping attends several stores to compare assortment of goods prices and availability of desired products. Handheld digital devices e.g. smartphones have become efficient assistants for performing shopping. The person may for example create a list of products to buy and may save this list on a smartphone. When being at the store the smartphone may be used to scan product barcodes to retrieve product information or perform payment based on payment information encoded in the product barcodes. However long term constant holding of the smartphone in a hand may cause inconvenience to the person who performs shopping at the store. For example when the person wants to take a big size product the person firstly needs to empty his hands and therefore to put the smartphone into his pocket. After inspecting the desired product the person will need to get the smartphone out of the pocket in order to scan a barcode of the desired product or to see what products left in the list of products to buy.

In addition to that when using a smartphone in a store a person needs to repeatedly look at a display of the smartphone for example to check a list of products stored on the smartphone or to read product information retrieved from a product barcode. Therefore time spent on shopping may increase.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are an augmented reality eyeglass communication device for facilitating shopping and a method for facilitating shopping using the augmented reality eyeglass communication device.

In certain embodiments the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may comprise a frame having a first end and a second end and a right earpiece connected to the first end of the frame and a left earpiece connected to the second end of the frame. Furthermore the eyeglass communication device may comprise a processor disposed in the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece and configured to receive one or more commands of a user perform operations associated with the commands of the user receive product information and process the product information. The eyeglass communication device may comprise a display connected to the frame and configured to display data received from the processor. The display may include an optical prism element and a projector embedded in the display. The projector may be configured to project the data received from the processor to the optical prism element. In addition to that the eyeglass communication device may comprise a transceiver electrically connected to the processor and configured to receive and transmit data over a wireless network. In the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece of the eyeglass communication device a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card slot may be disposed. The eyeglass communication device may comprise a camera disposed on the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece at least one earphone disposed on the right earpiece or the left earpiece a microphone configured to sense a voice command of the user and a charging unit connected to the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece. The eyeglass communication device may be configured to perform phone communication functions.

In certain embodiments a method for facilitating shopping using an augmented reality eyeglass communication device may include receiving by a processor of the eyeglass communication device product information associated with products comprised in a list of products of a user. Furthermore the method may involve receiving by the processor location information associated with location of the user. In further embodiments the method may include searching based on the product information by the processor a database associated with a store for availability location and pricing information associated with the products. The method may involve receiving by the processor the availability location and pricing information associated with the product and displaying by a display of the eyeglass communication device the availability location and pricing information associated with the product.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

An augmented reality eyeglass communication device for facilitating shopping and a method for facilitating shopping using the augmented reality eyeglass communication device are described herein. The eyeglass communication device allows a user to visually access information by simply looking trough eyeglass lenses configured as a display. Being worn by the user the eyeglass communication device may provide for convenient carrying in many situations and environments such as physical activity sports travels shopping telephone conversations leisure time and so forth.

Disposing a processor a transmitter and SIM card slot in a structure of the eyeglass communication device as well as insertion of a SIM card into the SIM card slot may allow the eyeglass communication device to perform communication functions of a mobile phone e.g. a smartphone and display data on a display of the eyeglass communication device. In this case a user may review the data simply looking through lenses of the eyeglass communication device. The user may store information in a memory unit of the eyeglass communication device and review the information on the display of the eyeglass communication device. Furthermore with the help of the eyeglass communication device the user may perform a number of functions of the smartphone such as accept or decline phone calls make phone calls listen to the music stored in the memory unit of the eyeglass communication device a remote device or accessed via the Internet view maps check for weather forecasts control remote devices to which the eyeglass communication device is currently connected such as a computer a TV an audio or video system and so forth. Additionally the eyeglass communication device may allow the user to make a photo or video and upload it to a remote device or to the Internet.

An augmented reality eyeglass communication device may be a useful tool for facilitating shopping. In particular the user may use the eyeglass communication device to scan an image a barcode of a product or to read a RFID tag of the product. The information retrieved from the image barcode or RFID tag may be displayed to the user. Therefore the user may look at the product in a store and may see real world environment i.e. the product itself augmented by information about the product displayed on a display of the eyeglass communication device. The display of the eyeglass communication device may be configured as an eyeglass lens such as a prescription lens or a lens without diopters and may include an optical prism element and a projector embedded into the display. Additionally the display may be configured as a bionic contact lens which may include integrated circuitry for wireless communications. In some embodiments the camera lens may be configured to track eye movements. The tracked eye movements may be transmitted to the processor and interpreted as a command.

The projector may project an image received from a processor of the eyeglass communication device to the optical prism element. The optical prism element may be configured so as to focus the image to a retina of the user.

The eyeglass communication device may be configured to sense and process voice commands of the user. Therefore the user may give voice commands to the eyeglass communication device and immediately see data associated with the commands on the display of the eyeglass communication device. The commands of the user may be processed by a processor of the eyeglass communication device or may be sent to a remote device such as a search server and information received from the remote device may be displayed on the display of the eyeglass communication device.

Additionally the device may be used as a hands free mobile computing device to synchronize with one or more external devices in real time track a geographical location of the one or more external devices in real time and provide communication capabilities using an embedded emergency button configured to provide a medical alert signal a request for help signal or another informational signal.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which a user wearing an augmented reality eyeglass communication device for facilitating shopping and methods for facilitating shopping using an augmented reality eyeglass communication device can be implemented. The environment may include a user an eyeglass communication device a communication network a store server a financial organization server and a communication server .

The device may communicate with the store server the financial organization server and the communication server via the network . Furthermore the device may retrieve information associated with a product by for example scanning an image or a barcode of the product or reading an RFID tag of the product .

In various embodiments the barcode may include a one dimensional barcode a two dimensional barcode a three dimensional barcode a quick response code a snap tag code and other machine readable codes. The barcode may encode payment data personal data credit card data debit card data gift card data prepaid card data bank checking account data digital cash data and so forth. Additionally the barcode may include a link to a web resource a payment request advertising information and other information. The barcode may encode electronic key data and be scannable by a web camera of an access control system. The scanned data may be processed by the access control system and access to an item related to the access control system may be granted based on the processing.

The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may include any suitable number and type of devices e.g. routers and switches for forwarding commands content and or web object requests from each client to the online community application and responses back to the clients. The device may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS RFID 4G 5G 6G and higher. The device may communicate with the GPS satellite via the network to exchange data on a geographical location of the device . Additionally the device may communicate with mobile network operators using a mobile base station. In some embodiments the device may be used as a standalone system operating via a WiFi module or a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card.

The methods described herein may also be practiced in a wide variety of network environments represented by network including for example TCP IP based networks telecommunications networks wireless networks etc. In addition the computer program instructions may be stored in any type of computer readable media. The program may be executed according to a variety of computing models including a client server model a peer to peer model on a stand alone computing device or according to a distributed computing model in which various functionalities described herein may be effected or employed at different locations.

Additionally the user wearing the device may interact via the bidirectional communication network with the one or more remote devices not shown . The one or more remote devices may include a television set a set top box a personal computer e.g. a tablet or a laptop a house signaling system and the like. The device may connect to the one or more remote devices wirelessly or by wires using various connections such as a USB port a parallel port an infrared transceiver port a radiofrequency transceiver port and so forth.

For the purposes of communication the device may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 4G 5G 6G and upper RFID and so forth.

The device may comprise a processor disposed in the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The processor may be configured to receive one or more commands of a user perform operations associated with the commands of the user receive product information and process the product information. The processor may operate on an operational system such as iOS Android Windows Mobile Blackberry Symbian Asha Linux Nemo Mobile and so forth. The processor may be configured to establish connection with a network to view text photo or video data maps listen to audio data watch multimedia data receive and send e mails perform payments etc. Additionally the processor may download applications receive and send text video and multimedia data. In a certain embodiment the processor may be configured to process a hand gesture command of the user.

The device may also comprise at least one display . The display may be embedded into the frame . The frame may comprise openings for disposing the display . In a certain embodiment the frame may be implemented without openings and may partially enclose two displays . The display may be configured as an eyeglass lens such as prescription lenses non prescription lenses e.g. darkened lenses safety lenses lenses without diopters and the like. The eyeglass lens may be changeable. The display may be configured to display data received from the processor . The data received from the processor may include video data text data payment data personal data barcode information time data notifications and so forth. The display may include an optical prism element and a projector embedded in the display . The display may include a see through material to display simultaneously a picture of real world and data requested by the user. In some embodiments the display may be configured so that the optical prism element and the projector cannot be seen when looking from any side on the device . Therefore the user wearing the device and looking through displays may not see the optical prism element and the projector . The projector may receive an image from the processor and may project the image to the optical prism element . The optical prism element may be configured so as to focus the image to a retina of the user. In certain embodiments the projector may be configured to project the data received from the processor to a surface in environment of the user. The surface in environment of the user may be any surface in environment of the user such as a vertical surface a horizontal surface an inclined surface in environment of the user a surface of a physical object in environment of the user and a part of a body of the user. In some embodiments the surface may be a wall a table a hand of the user a sheet of paper. The data may include a virtual touch screen environment. The virtual touch screen environment may be see through to enable the user to see the surroundings. Virtual objects in the virtual touch screen environment may be moveable and deformable. The user may interact with virtual objects visualized in the virtual touch screen environment. Thus the device may provide gesture tracking surface tracking code example tracking and so forth.

In some embodiments the device may comprise a gesture sensor capable of measuring electrical activity associated with a muscle movement. Thus the muscle movement may be detected and interpreted as a command.

The user may interact with the data and or objects projected by the projector e.g. a rear projector system such as the virtual touch screen. The camera may capture images or video of user body parts in relation to the projected objects and recognize user commands provided via virtual control components. Alternatively motions of user fingers or hands may be detected by one or more sensors and interpreted by the processor.

In some embodiments the device may comprise two cameras one for each eye of the user. Each of the two cameras may have a 23 degree field of view.

In some embodiments the projector may be configured rotatable to enable the processor to project an image to the optical prism element as well as to a surface in environment of the user. In further embodiments the image projected by the projector may be refracted by an optical prism element embedded into a display and directed to the surface in environment of the user. In some embodiments the data projected by the projector to the optical prism element may be perceived by a human eye as located at a distance of 3 to 8 meters.

The device may comprise a transceiver electrically coupled to the processor . The transceiver may be configured to receive and transmit data from a remote device over a wireless network receive one or more commands of the user and transmit the data and the one or more commands to the remote device. The remote device may include a store server a communication server a financial organization server and so forth. The transceiver may be disposed in the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece .

In some embodiments the device may comprise a receiver configured to sense a change in frequency of a WiFi signal. The change may be caused by a move of a user hand. The change may be processed by the processor and a hand gesture associated with the change may be recognized and the corresponding command may be performed. For example the command may include controlling temperature settings adjusting a volume on a stereo flipping a channel on a television set or shutting off lights causing a fireplace to blaze to life and so forth. The change in frequency may be sensed in a line of sight of the user outside the line of sight of the user through a wall and so forth. In some embodiments the receiver sensing WiFi signal may be activated by a specific combination of gestures serving as an activating sequence or a password. In some embodiments WiFi signal change may be sensed by a microphone.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a SIM card slot disposed in the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece and configured to receive a SIM card not shown . The SIM card may store a phone number of the SIM card an operator of the SIM card an available balance of the SIM card and so forth. Therefore when the SIM card in received in the SIM card slot the device may perform phone communication functions i.e. may function as a mobile phone in particular a smartphone.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a camera disposed on the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The camera may include one or more of the following a digital camera a mini camera a motion picture camera a video camera a still photography camera and so forth. The camera may be configured to take a photo or record a video capture a sequence of images such as the images containing a hand of the user. The camera may communicate the captured photo or video to the transceiver . Alternatively the camera may transmit the images to the processor to recognize the hand gesture command. The camera may be configured to perform simultaneously video recording and image capturing.

Referring again to the device may comprise several cameras mounted on any side of the device and directed in a way allowing capture of all areas around the device . For example the cameras may be mounted on front rear top left and right sides of the device . The areas captured by the front rear top left and right side cameras may be displayed on the display simultaneously or one by one. Furthermore the user may select for example by voice command one of the cameras and the data captured by the selected camera may be shown on the display . In further embodiments the camera may be configured to allow focusing on an object selected by the user for example by voice command.

The camera may be configured to scan a barcode. Scanning a barcode may involve capturing an image of the barcode using the camera . The scanned barcode may be processed by the processor to retrieve the barcode information. Using the camera of device the user may capture pictures of various cards tickets or coupons. Such pictures stored in the device may comprise data related to captured cards tickets or coupons.

One having ordinary skills in the art would understand that the term scanning is not limited to printed barcodes having particular formats but can be used for barcodes displayed on a screen of a PC smartphone laptop another wearable personal digital device WPD and so forth. Additionally barcodes may be transmitted to and from the eyeglass communication device electronically. In some embodiments barcodes may be in the form of an Electronic Product Code EPC designed as a universal identifier that provides a unique identity for every physical object not just a trade item category anywhere in the world. It should be noted that EPCs are not exclusively used with RFID data carriers. They can be constructed based on reading of optical data carriers such as linear barcodes and two dimensional barcodes such as Data Matrix symbols. For purposes of this document all optical data carriers are referred to herein as barcodes .

In certain embodiments the camera may be configured to capture an image of a product. The captured image may be processed by the processor to retrieve image information. The image information may include a name of the product or a trademark of the product. Information associated with the product may be retrieved from the image information and displayed on the display .

In certain embodiments the device may comprise at least one earphone disposed on the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The earphone may play sounds received by the transceiver from the control device.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a microphone . The microphone may sense the voice command of the user and communicate it to the transceiver . The voice command may also include a voice memo a voice message and so forth. Additionally the microphone may sense other voice data and transmit the voice data to the processor.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a charging unit connected to the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The charging unit may be configured to provide power to elements of the device . In various embodiments the charging unit may include one or more solar cells a wireless charger accessory a vibration charger configured to charge the devices using natural movement vibrations and so forth.

Additionally the device may include at least one electroencephalograph EEG sensor configured to sense brain activity of the user. Neurons of the human brain can interact through a chemical reaction and emit a measurable electrical impulse. EEG sensors may sense the electrical impulses and translate the pulses into one or more commands. By sensing the electrical impulses the device may optimize brain fitness and performance of the user measure and monitor cognitive health and wellbeing of the user and so forth.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a memory slot disposed on the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The memory slot may be configured to capture a memory unit not shown . On a request of the user the device may display data stored in the memory unit of the device . In various examples such data may include a photo or a video recorded by the camera the information received from a remote device payment information of the user in the form of a scannable barcode discount or membership cards of the user tickets coupons boarding passes any personal information of the user and so forth. The memory unit may include a smart media card a secure digital card a compact flash card a multimedia card a memory stick an extreme digital card a trans flash card and so forth.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise at least one sensor not shown mounted to the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece and configured to sense the one or more commands of the user. The sensor may include at least one eye tracking unit at least one motion sensing unit and an accelerometer determining an activity of the user. The eye tracking unit may track an eye movement of the user generate a command based on the eye movement and communicate the command to the transceiver . The motion sensing unit may sense head movement of the user i.e. motion of the device about a horizontal or vertical axis. In particular the motion sensing unit may sense motion of the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The user may give commands by moving the device for example by moving the head of the user. The user may choose one or more ways to give commands by voice using the microphone by eye movement using the eye tracking unit by head movement using the motion sensing unit for example by nodding or shaking the head or use all these ways simultaneously.

Additionally the device may comprise one or more biometric sensors to sense biometric parameters of the user. The biometric parameters may be stored to the memory and processed by the processor to receive historical biometric data. For example the biometric sensors may include sensors for measuring a blood pressure a pulse a heart rate a glucose level a body temperature an environment temperature arterial properties and so forth. The sensed data may be processed by the processor and or shown on the display . Additionally one or more automatic alerts may be provided based on the measuring such as visual alerts audio alerts voice alerts and so forth.

Moreover to track user activity the device may comprise one or more accelerometers. Using the accelerometers the various physical data related to the user may be received such as calories burned sleep quality breaths per minute snoring breaks steps walked distance walked and the like. In some embodiments using the accelerometers the device may control snoring by sensing the position of the user while he is asleep.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a light indicator and buttons such as an on off button and a reset button. In certain embodiments the device may comprise a USB slot to connect to other devices for example to a computer.

Additionally a gesture recognition unit including at least three dimensional 3D gesture recognition sensors a range finder a depth camera and a rear projection system may be included in the device . The gesture recognition unit may be configured to track hand gesture commands of the user. Moreover non verbal communication of a human gestures hand gestures emotion signs directional indications and facial expressions may be recognized by the gesture recognition unit a camera and or other sensors. Multiple hand gesture commands or gestures of other humans may be identified simultaneously. In various embodiments hand gesture commands or gestures of other humans may be identified based on depth data finger data hand data and other data which may be received from sensors of the device . The 3D gesture recognition sensor may capture three dimensional data in real time with high precision.

To identify a hand gesture a human hand may be interpreted as a collection of vertices and lines in a 3D mesh. Based on relative position and interaction of the vertices and lines the gesture may be inferred. To capture gestures in real time a skeletal representation of a user body may be generated. To this end a virtual skeleton of the user may be computed by the device and parts of the body may be mapped to certain segments of the virtual skeleton. Thus user gestures may be determined faster since only key parameters are analyzed.

Additionally deformable 2D templates of hands may be used. Deformable templates may be sets of points on the outline of human hands as linear simplest interpolation which performs an average shape from point sets point variability parameters and external deformators. Parameters of the hands may be derived directly from the images or videos using a template database from previously captured hand gestures.

Additionally facial expressions of the user including a blink a wink a surprise expression a frown a clench a smile and so forth may be tracked by the camera and interpreted as user commands. For example user blinking may be interpreted by the device as a command to capture a photo or a video.

Through recognition of gestures and other indication or expressions the device may enable the user to control remotely or non remotely various machines mechanisms robots and so forth. Information associated with key components of the body parts may be used to recognize gestures. Thus important parameters like palm position or joint angles may be received. Based on the parameters relative position and interaction of user body parts may be determined in order to infer gestures. Meaningful gestures may be associated with templates stored in a template database.

In other embodiments images or videos of the user body parts may be used for gesture interpretation. Images or videos may be taken by the camera .

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a RFID reader not shown to read a RFID tag of a product. The read RFID tag may be processed by the processor to retrieve the product information.

In certain embodiments the device may be configured to allow the user to view data in 3D format. In this embodiment the device may comprise two displays enabling the user to view data in 3D format. Viewing the data in 3D format may be used for example when working with such applications as games simulators and the like. The device may be configured to enable head tracking. The user may control for example video games by simply moving his head. Video game application with head tracking may use 3D effects to coordinate actual movements of the user in the real world with his virtual movements in a displayed virtual world.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a vibration unit not shown . The vibration unit may be mounted to the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The vibration unit may generate vibrations. The user may feel the vibrations generated by the vibration unit. The vibration may notify the user about receipt of the data from the remote device alert notification and the like.

Additionally the device may comprise a communication circuit. The communication circuit may include one or more of the following a Bluetooth module a WiFi module a communication port including a universal serial bus USB port a parallel port an infrared transceiver port a radiofrequency transceiver port an embedded transmitter and so forth. The device may communicate with external devices using the communication circuit.

Thus in certain embodiments the device may comprise a GPS unit not shown . The GPS unit may be disposed on the frame the right earpiece or the left earpiece . The GPS unit may detect coordinates indicating a position of the user . The coordinates may be shown on the display for example on request of the user stored in the memory unit or sent to a remote device.

In certain embodiments the device may comprise a Wi Fi module not shown and a Wi Fi signal detecting sensor not shown . The Wi Fi signal detecting sensor may be configured to detect change of a Wi Fi signal caused by the hand gesture command of the user and communicate data associated with the detected change to the processor . In this embodiment the processor may be further configured to process the data associated with the detected change of the Wi Fi signal and perform the detected hand gesture command in accordance with the processed data. For example a user may give a command to turn off the light in the room e.g. by moving a user hand up and down. The Wi Fi signal changes due to movement of the user hand. The Wi Fi signal detecting sensor may detect change of the Wi Fi signal and communicate data associated with the detected change to the processor . The processor may process the received data to determine the command given by the user and send a command to a light controlling unit of the room to turn off the light.

Using the embedded transmitter the device may produce signals used to control a device remotely e.g. TV set audio system and so forth to enable a two way radio alert a medical care alert a radar activate a door opener control an operation transporting vehicle a navigational beacon a toy and the like.

In some embodiments device may include control elements to control operation or functions of the device.

Access to the device may be controlled by a password a Personal Identification Number PIN code and or biometric authorization. The biometric authorization may include fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning retina scanning and so forth. The scanning may be performed using one or more biometric sensors. Additionally the device may include a fingerprint reader configured to scan a fingerprint. The scanned fingerprint may be matched to one or more approved fingerprints and if the scanned fingerprint corresponds to one of the approved fingerprints the access to the device may be granted.

Additionally a Software Development Kit SDK and or an Application Programming Interface API may be associated with the device . The SDK and or API may be used for third party integration purposes.

In various embodiments the device may comprise a GPS module to track geographical location of the device an alert unit to alert the user about some events by vibration and or sound one or more subscriber identification module SIM cards one or more additional memory units a physical interface e.g. a microSecureDigital microSD slot to receive memory devices external to the device a two way radio transceiver for communication purposes and an emergency button configured to send an alarm signal. In some embodiments the vibration and sound of the alert unit may be used by a guide tool and an exercise learning service.

In certain example embodiments device may be configured to analyze one or more music records stored in a memory unit. The device may communicate over a network with one or more music providers and receive data on music records suggested by the music providers for sale which are similar to the music records stored in the memory unit of the device. The received data may be displayed by the device.

Additionally the processor may be configured to communicate with a gambling cloud service or a gaming cloud service exchange gambling or gaming data with the gambling cloud service or the gaming cloud service and based on a user request transfer payments related to gambling or gaming using payment data of the user associated with an account of the user in the cloud service using payment data of the user stored in a memory unit or using a swipe card reader to read payment card data.

Optionally the method may comprise plotting by the processor a route for the user on a map of the store based on the availability location and pricing information associated with the product and the location information associated with the location of the user. The route may be displayed on the display .

In a certain embodiment the user may give a command to provide description of a product present in the store. The device may sense the command of the user via the microphone and communicate the command to the processor of the device . The processor may receive information associated with the product which description is requested by the user. The information associated with the product may be received by means of taking a picture of the product scanning a barcode of the product and reading a RFID tag of the product. The received information associated with the product may be processed by the processor . Then the processor may search based on the received information associated with the product the description of the product in a database available in a network e.g. in the Internet. After receiving by the processor the description of the product from the network the description of the product present in the store may be displayed to the user on the display .

In a certain embodiment the user may give a command to provide description of a product by means of a hand gesture for example by moving a hand of the user from left to right. In this embodiment the method may comprise tracking by a camera of the device a hand gesture command of the user. The hand gesture command of the user may be processed by a processor of the device . The processor may give a command to a projector of the device to project the description of the product to a surface in environment of the user e.g. a wall or the product itself according to the hand gesture command.

In a certain embodiment the processor may optionally receive information about the products put by the user into a shopping cart. The information about the products may be received by means of taking a picture of the product scanning a barcode of the product and reading a RFID tag of the product. The processor may remove based on the received information the products put by the user into the shopping cart from the list of products.

In case a product comprised in the list of products of the user is not available in the store the device may notify the user about such an absence for example by means of a sound or vibration notification or by means of showing the notification on the display . Furthermore the processor may search availability information associated with the not available product in a database of a store located proximate to the location of the user based on location information of the user.

In a certain embodiment the processor may search the database associated with the store for information about a product having the same characteristics as the not available product. After the processor receives the information about the product having the same characteristics as the not available product the information may be displayed to the user on the display .

In a certain embodiment when all products the user needs are put into the shopping chart the user may give a command to perform a payment. The processor may receive information about the products put by the user into the shopping cart and based on the received information may generate a payment request. The generated payment request may be sent by means of the transceiver to a financial organization to perform a payment. The financial organization may include a bank. The financial organization may confirm the payment for example based on SIM information of the user received together with the payment request or any other information associated with the device and stored in a database of the financial organization. One example embodiment of the method in respect of facilitating shopping will now be illustrated by .

To pay for the product the user may choose to pay electronically using the payment data stored on the device or by a payment card. To pay using the payment card the user may dispose the payment card in front of the camera of the device . In a certain embodiment information about the payment card may be stored in a memory unit of the device or may be reached via the Internet. After capturing the image of the payment card by the camera the device may receive payment data associated with the payment card. The device may generate a payment request based on the payment data of the payment card and the payment data of the product .

The payment request may be then sent via the network to the financial organization associated with the payment data of the payment card. The financial organization may process the payment request and may either perform the payment or deny the payment. Then a report may be generated and sent to the device via the network . The report may inform user whether the payment succeeded or was denied. The user may be notified about the report by showing the report on the display of the device playing a sound in earphones of the device or by generating a vibration by a vibration unit of the device .

Additionally the user may receive payments from other users via the device . Payment data associated with another user may be received by the device . The payment data may include payment account information associated with another user payment transfer data and so forth. Based on the payment data an amount may be transferred from the payment account of another user to a payment account of the user. The information on the payment account of the user may be stored in the memory of the device or on a server.

In some embodiments the device may be used for different purposes. For example the device may enable hands free check in and or check out hands free video calls and so forth. Additionally the device may perform hands free video calls take pictures record video get directions to a location and so forth. In some embodiments the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may make and receive calls over a radio link while moving around a wide geographic area via a cellular network access a public phone network send and receive text photo and video messages access internet capture videos and photos play games and so forth.

The augmented reality eyeglass communication device may be used to purchase products in a retail environment. To this end the augmented reality eyeglass communication device on receiving a user request to read one or more product codes may read the product codes corresponding to products. The reading may include scanning the product code by the augmented reality eyeglass communication device and decoding the product code to receive product information. The product information may include a product price a manufacture date a manufacturing country or a quantity of products. Prior to the reading an aisle location of products may be determined. Each reading may be stored in a list of read products on the augmented reality eyeglass communication device. Additionally the user may create one or more product lists.

In some embodiments a request to check a total amount and price of the reading may be received from the user. Additionally the user may give a command to remove some items from the reading so some items may be selectively removed.

Data associated with the product information may be transmitted to a payment processing system. On a user request the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may calculate the total price of the reading and payment may be authorized and the authorization may be transmitted to the payment processing system. The payment processing system may perform the payment and funds may be transferred to a merchant account. Alternatively the total price may be encoded in a barcode and the barcode may be displayed on a display of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device. The displayed barcode may be scanned by a sales person to accelerate check out.

Additionally compensation may be selectively received based on predetermined criteria. For example the compensation may include a cashback a discount a gift card and so forth.

In certain embodiments the user may pay with a restored payment card by sending a request to make payment via an interface of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device. The payment card may include any credit or debit card.

In some cases the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may connect to a wireless network of a merchant to receive information receive digital coupons and offers to make a purchase receive promotional offers and advertising or for other purposes. In various embodiments promotional offers and advertising may be received from a merchant a mobile payment service provider a third party and so forth.

After a purchase is made a digital receipt may be received by email. The digital receipt may contain detailed information on cashback discount and so forth. Furthermore a remote order for home delivery of one or more unavailable products may be placed with a merchant.

Another possible use of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device is accessing game and multimedia data. A user request to display the game and multimedia data or perform communication may be received and the augmented reality eyeglass communication device communicate over a network with a game and multimedia server to transfer game and multimedia data or a communication server to transfer communication data. The transferred data may be displayed on a display of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device. Furthermore a user command may be received and transferred to the game and multimedia server the server may process the command and transfer data related to the processing to the augmented reality eyeglass communication device.

Additionally the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may receive incoming communication data and notify the user about the incoming communication data. To notify the user an audible sound may be generated. The sound may correspond to the incoming communication data. A user command may be received in response to the incoming communication data and the incoming communication data may be displayed.

In some embodiments the game and multimedia data or the incoming communication data may be transferred to a television set a set top box a computer a laptop a smartphone a wearable personal digital device and so forth.

The augmented reality eyeglass communication device may be used to alert a driver and prevent the driver for falling asleep. The augmented reality eyeglass communication device may include a neuron sensor and camera to detect the state of an eye of the driver open or not by processing frontal or side views of the face images taken by the camera to analyze slackening facial muscles blinking pattern and a period of time the eyes stay closed between blinks. Once it is determined that the driver is asleep an audible voice light and or vibration alarm may be generated.

Furthermore the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may be used for personal navigation. The augmented reality eyeglass communication device may comprise a GPS unit to determine a geographical location of a user and a magnetic direction sensor to determine an orientation of a head of the user. The processor of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may receive a destination or an itinerary one or more geographical maps the geographical location of the user and the orientation of the head of the user and generate navigation hints. The navigation hints may be provided to the user via a plurality of Light Emitting Diodes LEDs . The LEDs may be disposed in a peripheral field of vision of the user and provide navigation hints by changing their color. For example the LEDS located on in the direction where the user need to move to reach the destination or to follow the itinerary may have a green color while the LEDs located in a wrong direction may have a red color. Additionally data including the itinerary the one or more geographical maps the geographical location of the user one or more messages one or more alternative routes one or more travel alerts and so forth may be displayed on the display of the augmented reality eyeglass communication device.

In some embodiments the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may receive user commands via a microphone.

In some embodiments the augmented reality eyeglass communication device may comprise at least one electroencephalograph EEG sensor sensing one or more electrical impulses associated with the brain activity of the user. The electrical impulses may be translated in one or more commands. Additionally the electrical impulses may be used to detect and optimize brain fitness and performance of the user measure and monitor cognitive health and well being of the user. Based on the electrical impulses undesired condition of the user may be detected and an alert associated with the undesired condition may be provided. The undesired condition may include chronic stress anxiety depression aging decreasing estrogen level excess oxytocin level prolonged cortisol secretion and so forth.

Moreover healthy lifestyle tips may be provided to the user via the augmented reality eyeglass communication device. The healthy lifestyle tips may be associated with mental stimulation physical exercise healthy nutrition stress management sleep and so forth.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus various augmented reality eyeglass communication devices for facilitating shopping and methods for facilitating shopping using an augmented reality eyeglass communication device have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

