---

title: Wearable user device authentication system
abstract: Systems and methods for authenticating a user include a wearable user device receiving a first request to access a secure system. A plurality of authentication elements are then displayed on a display device to a user eye in a first authentication orientation about a perimeter of an authentication element input area. A user hand located opposite the display device from the user eye is then detected selecting a sequence of the plurality of authentication elements. For each selected authentication element in the sequence, the wearable user device moves the selected authentication element based on a detected movement of the user hand and records the selected authentication element as a portion of an authentication input in response to the user hand moving the selected authentication element to the authentication element input area. The user is authenticated for the secure system if the authentication input matches stored user authentication information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251333&OS=09251333&RS=09251333
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09251333
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
The present invention generally relates to wearable user devices and more particularly to an authentication system using a wearable user device.

Wearable user devices such as for example Google Glass available from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. may include wearable computing devices that feature a head mounted display device that is included on a frame similar to an eyeglass frame that the user wears on their head such that the display is viewable in front of at least one eye of the user. Users of such wearable user devices typically interact with the wearable user device to provide instructions by speaking those instructions aloud and the wearable user device then uses voice recognition techniques to interpret those instructions so that they may be executed by a wearable user device. Instructions may also be provided to the wearable user device through a touchpad located on the frame that allows the user to swipe through a timeline like interface provided on the display device. However these user interface systems for providing instructions to the wearable user device suffer from a number of deficiencies particularly when it comes to security. For example the entering a password passcode or other authentication information using the wearable user device e.g. to access functionality provided on the wearable user device is subject to interception by a non authorized user when spoken aloud and is time consuming and subject to error when entered through the touchpad.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for authenticating a user using a wearable user device. The wearable user device may receive a first request from a user to access a secure system which may be the wearable user device itself an application provided on the wearable user device an application function in an application provided on the wearable user device a secure device that is in communication with the wearable user device and or a variety of other secure systems known in the art. In response to receiving the request to access the secure system the wearable user device displays on its display device a plurality of authentication elements in a first authentication orientation about a perimeter of an authentication element input area. The wearable user device then detects a user hand e.g. using a camera on the wearable user device which is opposite the display device from the users eye selecting a sequence of the plurality of authentication elements in the first authentication orientation by moving their hand over each selected authentication element such that the two are associated by the wearable user device and then moving those authentication elements into the authentication element input area. If the sequence of the plurality of authentication elements provides an authentication input that matches user authentication information the wearable user device authenticates the user for the secure system.

The wearable user device may then receive a second request from a user to access the secure system and in response the wearable user device displays on its display device the plurality of authentication elements in a second authentication orientation about the perimeter of an authentication element input area with the second authentication orientation being different from the first authentication orientation. Thus when the user selects a sequence of the plurality of authentication elements in the second authentication orientation to provide the authentication input for authentication the user hand movements will be different than those that were used to select the sequence of the plurality of authentication elements in the first authentication orientation. As such someone viewing the user providing an authentication input using the wearable user device cannot simply remember or record the user hand movements to copy the authentication input as those hand movements will change depending on the authentication orientation provided for the plurality of authentication elements which may change each time the user authenticates for the secure system. 

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for authenticating a user using a wearable user device is illustrated. In the embodiments described below a user wears a wearable user device that may enable authentication of the user in a wide variety of situations. In one embodiment the wearable user device itself may require authentication of the user in order to access any functionality of that wearable user device. For example the wearable user device may require authentication of the user to access an operating system on the wearable user device. In another embodiment the wearable user device may require authentication of the user in order to access an application provided on that wearable user device. For example the wearable user device may require authentication of the user to access a payment application a financial tracking application an age restricted application and or a variety of other applications provided on the wearable user device. In specific embodiments involving a payment application a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. may provide a payment application that the user installs on their wearable user device and after authentication of the user as described herein the user may use the payment application to send instructions to the payment service provider to transfer funds from a user financial account e.g. provided by the payment service provider an account provider etc. to a merchant financial account e.g. provided by the payment service provider an account provider etc. to pay for products and or services.

In another embodiment the wearable user device may require authentication of the user in order to access functionality in an application provided on the wearable user device. For example the wearable user device may require authentication of the user to charge a payment account through an application e.g. to purchase a game on a game store application to make a purchase on a website accessed through an Internet browser application etc. that is provided on the wearable user device. In another embodiment the wearable user device may require authentication of the user in order to access a secure device that is in communication with the wearable user device. For example the wearable user device may require authentication of the user in order to have the wearable user device provide an instruction to a secure device to unlock a lock start up a car and or provide a variety of other secure device authentication actions known in the art. However while a number of different examples of user authentications are discussed herein those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that a wide variety of authentication scenarios known in the art will benefit from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Referring first to the embodiments illustrated in the method begins at block where a first request to access a secure system is received. At block the user is wearing the wearable user device and wishes to access the functionality of the wearable user device e.g. the operating system an application provided on the wearable user device e.g. a payment application and or functionality of an application provided on the wearable user device e.g. the ability to make a payment on a web page accessed through an Internet browser application. Thus at block the user provides a first request to access the secure system that is received by the wearable user device. As discussed in further detail below the wearable user device may include and or be coupled to a non transitory memory that includes instructions that when executed by one or more hardware processors in the wearable user device cause the one or more hardware processor to provide an authentication engine that perform the functionality of the wearable user device discussed below.

In one example of block the user may power on the wearable user device to provide the first request to access the functionality of the wearable user device through access to its operating system. Thus in this example the first request to access the secure system e.g. the wearable user device itself is sent automatically e.g. without any further input from the user in response to the powering on of the wearable user device. In another example of block the user may select an application icon provided by the operating system on the wearable user device to provide the first request to access the application provided on the wearable user device. Thus in this example the first request to access the secure system e.g. the application on the wearable user device is sent automatically e.g. without any further input from the user in response to the user sending instructions to start an application. In another example of block the user may select a function in an application provided on the wearable user device to provide the first request to access the application functionality within the application provided on the wearable user device. Thus in this example the first request to access the secure system e.g. the application functionality in the application on the wearable user device is sent automatically e.g. without any further input from the user in response to instructions to access a function within an application.

The method then proceeds to block where a plurality of authentication elements is displayed in a first authentication orientation. In response to receiving the first request to access the secure system at block the wearable user device may provide a plurality of authentication elements in a first authentication orientation for display on a display device on the wearable use device that is positioned adjacent at least one eye of the user. As is known in the art wearable user devices may include a transparent display device e.g. an Organic Light Emitting Device OLED display device that is positioned adjacent a user eye and that allows for the display of information from the wearable user device over a field of vision of the user. As such the plurality of authentication elements that are displayed in the first authentication orientation may be viewable by the user along with any objects located opposite the display device from the eye of the user.

Referring now to an embodiment of an authentication screen that may be provided on a display device by the wearable user device at block of the method is illustrated. The authentication screen includes an authentication element input area as well as a perimeter that in the illustrated embodiment is spaced apart from a selection portion of the authentication element input area . The authentication screen may provide the perimeter spaced apart from a selection portion of the authentication element input area as illustrated to help prevent unintended selection of authentication elements. For example the area between the perimeter and the selection portion of the authentication element input area may allow the user to drag authentication elements towards the authentication element input area discussed below without selecting them as long as they are not dragged past the selection portion of the authentication element input area . However in other embodiments the perimeter and the selection portion of the authentication element input area may coincide such that that the user dragging an authentication element across the perimeter and into any portion of the authentication element input area will result in a selection of that authentication element.

The authentication screen includes a plurality of authentication elements and provided in a first authentication orientation about the perimeter . In the illustrated embodiment the plurality of authentication elements are numerical passcode authentication elements that include the numbers 0 through 9 which each of those numbers provided as a separate authentication element. In the illustrated embodiment the first authentication orientation provides the numerical passcode authentication elements arranged adjacent the perimeter opposite the perimeter from the authentication element input area and in numerical order starting with the 0 authentication element at the top of the perimeter and about the perimeter in a clockwise direction e.g. followed by the 1 authentication element the 2 authentication elements and so on .

Referring briefly to an alternative embodiment of an authentication screen that may be provided on a display device by the wearable user device at block of the method is illustrated. The authentication screen includes an authentication element input area that includes a perimeter . The authentication screen also includes a plurality of authentication elements and provided in a first authentication orientation about the perimeter . In the illustrated embodiment the plurality of authentication elements are numerical passcode authentication elements that include the numbers 0 through 9 with each of those numbers provided as a separate authentication element. In the illustrated embodiment the first authentication orientation provides the numerical passcode authentication elements arranged adjacent the perimeter opposite the perimeter from the authentication element input area and in numerical order starting with the 0 authentication element at the top of the perimeter and about the perimeter in a clockwise direction e.g. followed by the 1 authentication element the 2 authentication elements and so on .

While a few examples of authentication screens authentication elements and authentication orientations have been provided above a wide variety of modification to those embodiments is envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. For example rather than or in addition to the numerical passcode authentications elements illustrated above other characters may be provided as authentication elements including letters of an alphabet symbols and or other characters known in the art. For example illustrates an authentication screen that is substantially similar to the authentication screen discussed above but with the authentication elements provided as symbols. Furthermore authentication elements may include images e.g. digital photos selected from a digital photo album or provided by the user images provided by a system provider etc. colors and or any other authentication element known in the art. While the examples of authentication orientations have been illustrated as circular around about the perimeter of a circular authentication input area square triangular random and or any other orientation of the authentication elements may provide the same benefits as the circular orientations illustrated herein and thus are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure.

The method then proceeds to block where the selection of a sequence of authentication elements is detected and recorded. In an embodiment after being presented the plurality of authentication elements on the display device of the wearable user device the user may select any sequence of those authentication elements by moving their hand or parts of their hand discussed below in their field of vision and opposite the display device from their eye to cause an authentication element to be selected and then moving that selected authentication element via movement of their hand from its original position e.g. as provided in to the authentication element input area to cause that authentication element to be recorded as part of the sequence of authentication elements by the wearable user device.

Referring now to and an embodiment of the user selecting the authentication element from the authentication screen as part of a sequence of the authentication elements selected to provide an authentication input is illustrated. As discussed above the user may position their hand opposite the display device on the wearable user device such that an authentication element is selected. As illustrated in the user is positioning a portion index finger of their hand adjacent the authentication element to select that authentication element

In the illustrated embodiment portions of the authentication screen are displayed to the user on the display device such that they appear behind the user s hand index finger or arm even though they are being displayed on the display device that is positioned between the eye of the user and the user s hand index finger and arm . For example in a portion of the authentication element is being displayed to appear behind the user s index finger portions of the authentication elements and are being displayed to appear behind the users hand and arm and a portion of the perimeter is being displayed to appear behind the user s hand and arm . Such display of the authentication screen may be performed to provide the user with more natural and intuitive control in the selection of the authentication elements and their movement to the authentication element input area i.e. users may be more comfortable if the authentication screen appears to be located behind their hand rather than displayed over it when selecting authentication elements as an authentication input .

In some embodiments the display of portions of the authentication screen behind the user s hand index finger arm and or other authentication element selecting user features may be accomplished by capturing images or video e.g. via a camera on the wearable user device of the user s hand index finger and arm recognizing the user s hand index finger and arm e.g. using image recognition techniques known in the art and using those recognized user features to modify the display of the authentication screen such that the portions of the authentication screen that would otherwise overlap the user s hand index finger and arm are not displayed and appear to be covered or otherwise behind the user s hand index finger and arm . However in other embodiments all of the authentication screen may simply be displayed over the user s hand index finger and arm

At block the wearable user device may determine that the user has selected an authentication element by capturing images or video of the user s hand recognizing the user s hand selecting the authentication element and associating the selected authentication element with the user hand . The recognition of the users hand selecting the authentication element may be based on for example the wearable user device determining e.g. from the captured images or video that the user s hand has been positioned adjacent the users view of that authentication element for a predetermined amount of time the user s hand performing a predetermined gesture adjacent that authentication element and or in a response to a variety of other user selection actions known in the art. In the illustrated example the user has extended the index finger on their hand such that the index finger is positioned over the authentication element and in response the wearable user device has determined that the user is selecting the authentication element e.g. based on the index finger being positioned adjacent the users view of the authentication element for a predetermined time based on the gesture of the user extending their index finger and that index finger being positioned adjacent the users view of the authentication element etc. . In response to detecting that selection the wearable user device associates the authentication element with the user hand and or index finger

Referring now to the user may then move their hand to cause the authentication element that they previously selected to be moved on the authentication screen into the authentication element input area . In the illustrated embodiment the user has moved their hand and index finger along with it such that the index finger is positioned adjacent the user s view of the authentication element input area . Following the association of the selected authentication element and the user index finger discussed above when the user moves their hand and index finger the wearable user device detects that movement e.g. via images or video captured by the camera on the wearable user device and causes the display of the authentication element to move relative to the authentication screen and the authentication element input area . Thus the movement by the user of their hand and index finger causes the display of the authentication element to be dragged from its original position illustrated by the dashed line in along with the hand and index finger of the user to the authentication element input area as illustrated in

In response to the movement of the authentication element to the authentication element input area performed by the wearable user device in response to the movements of the user s hand and index finger the wearable user device records the authentication element as a portion of an authentication input provided by the user in selecting a sequence of the authentication elements . The recording of the authentication element based on it being in the authentication element input area may occur in response to the user holding that authentication element in the authentication element input area for a predetermined amount of time based on a gesture of the hand or index finger e.g. making a first or otherwise detracting the index finger and or in response to a variety of other user gestures. In an embodiment the authentication elements selected by the user may be displayed in an authentication input box as illustrated.

The user may then select further authentication elements in the sequence of authentication elements selected at block in substantially the same manner as discussed above for the authentication element to provide different portions of an authentication input. For example the user could follow the selection of the authentication element with a selection of the authentication element followed by the selection of the authentication element following be the selection of the authentication element again and followed by the selection of any of the authentication elements in any sequence to provide an authentication input for authenticating the user.

Referring back to and the detection and recording of the selection of the sequence of authentication elements at block may be performed in substantially the same manner as described above using the alternative authentication screen but with a few slight variations. Thus the user may select the authentication element in substantially the same manner as described above for the authentication element on the authentication screen e.g. using their hand and the wearable user device will associated that authentication element with the user hand . The user may then move their hand across their view of the perimeter and into their view of the authentication element input area such that the wearable user device causes the authentication element to move accordingly and then record the authentication element as a portion of the authentication input. Similarly as discussed above for the authentication screen the selection of any of the authentication elements in any sequence on the authentication screen may be performed to provide the authentication input for authenticating the user.

The method then proceeds to block where the authentication input provided at block is determined to match user authentication information and in response the user is authenticated. In an embodiment the wearable user device includes a non transitory memory that may include a database or other logical storage structure that includes user authentication information for authenticating a user. For example the wearable user device may store user authentication information for authenticating a user to use the wearable user device e.g. to access an operating system of the user device for authenticating a user to use an application on the wearable user device for authenticating a user to use functionality in an application on the wearable user device for authenticating a user to access a secure device that is in communication with the wearable user device etc. In another embodiment the wearable user device is coupled through a network e.g. the Internet to a non transitory memory that may include a database or other logical storage structure that includes user authentication information for authenticating a user. For example the wearable user device may access user authentication information over the network for authenticating a user to use the wearable user device e.g. to access an operating system of the user device for authenticating a user to use an application on the wearable user device for authenticating a user to use functionality in an application on the wearable user device for authenticating a user to access a secure device that is in communication with the wearable user device etc. Thus at block the wearable user device retrieves the user authentication information associated with the secure system for which the user is requesting access and compares that user authentication information to the authentication input recorded at block . If the authentication input does not match the user authentication information the user is denied access to the secure system. However if the authentication input matches the user authentication information the user is authenticated for the secure system. Thus following block the user may begin using the wearable user device an application on the wearable user device an application function in the application on the wearable user device a secure device in communication with the wearable user device discussed in further detail below etc.

The method may then proceed to optional block where another request is received to access the secure system. Following being authenticated and granted access to the secure system in block the user may need to re authenticate with that secure system. For example the authentication of the user provided by block may expire due to a number of reasons such as for example the ending of an authentication time period following a user logging off of the secure system following user inactivity on the secure system and or in response to a variety of other authentication expiration situations known in the art. In response at block the user may provide and the wearable user device may receive a second request to access the secure system. The second request to access the secure system may be provided by the user and received by the wearable user device in the same manner as discussed above for the first request at block discussed in detail above.

The method may then proceed to optional block where the plurality of authentication elements is provided in an authentication orientation that is different from the first authentication orientation. Referring now to and with reference to following the second request to access the secure system at block the wearable user device provides the authentication screen with the authentication element input area the perimeter and the same authentication elements . However the authentication elements are provided in a second authentication orientation that is different than the first authentication orientation illustrated in . As can be seen by a comparison of the first authentication orientation and the second authentication orientation each of the authentication elements has been moved to a different position about the perimeter of the authentication element input area . In an embodiment the wearable user device may include a plurality of different authentication screens including the different authentication orientations of the authentication elements may have the ability to randomize the positions of the authentication elements on an authentication screen and or may user a variety of other techniques for providing the different authentication orientations. With reference to the authentication screens and illustrated in and the authentication elements e.g. authentication elements in may be provided in an authentication orientation that differs from the first authentication orientation e.g. the authentication orientation in in the same manner as discussed above.

The method may then proceed back to block where the selection of a sequence of authentication elements is detected and recorded. The detection and recording of the selection of the sequence of authentication elements displayed in the second authentication orientation is performed substantially as described above for the detection and recording of the selection of the sequence of authentication elements displayed in the first authentication orientation but with the provision that due to the difference in the positions of the authentication elements in the second authentication orientation relative to the first authentication orientation the movements of the user s hand will differ even though the user is selecting the same sequence of authentication elements to provide the same authentication input. Thus someone viewing the user providing the authentication input will be unable to falsely identify themselves as the user by copying or mimicking those user hand movements because they cannot know the orientation of the authentication elements that are being displayed to the user i.e. because the display device on the wearable user device is only visible to the user and because the authentication elements are unlikely to be displayed in that orientation again i.e. due to the changing of the authentication orientation between secure system access requests .

The method may then proceed back to block where the wearable user device determines that the authentication input provided using the display of the authentication elements in the second authentication orientation matches user authentication information and authenticates the user. The method may then repeat block then block then back to block and then to block as many times as the user needs to authenticate with the secure system. As such the wearable user device may receive a third request to access the secure system and provide the authentication elements in a third authentication orientation that is different from both the first authentication orientation and the second authentication orientation and so on. Because the wearable user device operates to change the authentication orientation of the authentication elements e.g. every authentication orientation may be different up to the statistical limits based on the number of authentication elements used each authentication orientation may be random a set of authentication orientations may be cycled etc. across user authentications any attempt to copy the user movements made to authenticate will not result in a false authentication as a given set of user movements will not result in authentication for subsequent authentication orientations of the authentication elements.

Referring now to and a specific embodiment of the wearable user device authentication system is illustrated that provides an example of how the wearable user device discussed above may be used to authenticate the user for secure devices that are in communication with the wearable user device. As discussed in further detail below the wearable user device may include a wireless communications system that provides the wearable user device the ability to wirelessly communicate with secure systems. For example the wearable user device may include a Bluetooth wireless controller that is configured to perform Bluetooth wireless communications a Near Field Communication NFC wireless controller that is configured to perform NFC communications a Wifi wireless controller that is configured to perform Wifi wireless communications a cellular wireless controller that is configured to perform cellular wireless communications and or a variety of other wireless controllers for performing wireless communications known in the art.

In response to the secure system car being associated with user authentication information in a database the wearable use device may display a secure device detection screen on its display device. In the embodiment illustrated in the secure device detection screen is displayed such that the secure system car that is in the user s field of view and opposite the display device from the user s eye is visible through the secure device detection screen . An indication window is provided on the secure device detection screen that indicates the secure device door lock e.g. the location of the secure device in the users field of view and a user prompt is provided to indicate to the user that they may access the secure system car through the secure device door lock by authenticating using the wearable user device. For example the user may be able to speak the word unlock in order to provide the request to access the secure system car discussed above with reference to blocks and of the method .

Referring now to in response to receiving the request to access the secure system car the wearable user device may provide an authentication screen which is substantially similar to the authentication screen discussed above with reference to and the user may interact with the authentication screen substantially as described above with reference to the method in order to provide an authentication input for authentication by the wearable user device. In response to authenticating the user as described above with reference to block of the method the wearable user device may wirelessly communicate an instruction to the secure system car to provide access to the user. For example in the illustrated embodiment the instruction to the secure system car to provide access to the user may include an instruction to unlock the secure device door lock such that the user may access the secure system car. As discussed above subsequent attempts to access the secure system will result in the orientation of the authentication elements on the authentication screen being changed such that user hand movements and gestures to provide an authentication input are different and cannot be copied by another who has viewed them to falsely authenticate with and use the secure system car.

While the use of the wearable user device to authenticate a user and unlock a car door has been illustrated and described a wide variety of secure systems and secure devices in wireless communication with the wearable user device will benefit from the authentication system described herein. For example with reference to the secure system car of and user authentication may provide for unlocking of the trunk of the car starting the ignition of the car and or providing a variety of other car actions known in the art. In such an example indication windows and use prompts may be provided that are similar to the indication window and user prompt of to indicate secure devices that the user may authenticate for e.g. an indication window indicating the trunk may be unlocked along with a user prompt to unlock trunk an indication window indicating the ignition may be started along with a user prompt to start ignition etc. . In another example the secure system may be a home and the secure devices may be one or more doors in the home a safe in the home and or a variety of other home secure devices known in the art. In another example the secure system may be a computer and the secure device may be any components connected to that computer. Thus one of skill in the art in possession of the present disclosure will recognize that a wide variety of secure systems and secure devices known in the art may have a user authenticated for them using the systems and methods discussed herein.

Thus systems and methods for authenticating a user using a wearable user device have been described that allow a user to provide an authentication input using hand movements and gestures that manipulate authentication elements displayed on a display device that is only visible to the user. On subsequent authentications the authentication orientation of the authentication elements is changed so that when the user provides the same authentication input different hand movements and gestures will be used. As such the hand gestures and movements are not subject to copying to provide a false authentication by anyone that has viewed them or recorded them as the hand gestures and movements needed for authentication will differ based on the differing authentication orientations provided for the authentication elements.

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in includes a user device a merchant device a payment service provider device a plurality of account provider devices and a plurality of secure devices in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the wearable user devices discussed above. The merchant device may be the merchant devices discussed above and may be operated by the merchants discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The secure devices may be secure systems and or devices discussed above

The user device merchant device payment service provider device plurality of account provider devices and plurality of secure devices may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The merchant device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the merchant device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the user.

The merchant device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a wearable user device is illustrated. The wearable user device may be the may be the wearable user devices discussed above. The wearable user device includes a frame having a computing chassis that extends from the frame a display device that extends from the computing chassis a microphone located on the computing chassis and a camera located on the computing chassis . One of skill in the art will recognize that the wearable user device is a mobile wearable user device such as for example Google Glass available from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. that may provide a user with the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other mobile wearable user devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example user devices or merchant device payment service provider device plurality of account provider devices and or plurality of secure devices is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users merchants payment service providers and account providers in the system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device or merchant device payment service provider device plurality of account provider devices and or plurality of secure devices . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a wearable user device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the wearable user devices or . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to an authentication engine that is coupled to an authentication database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The authentication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive requests to access a secure system display authentication elements in any number of orientations change authentication orientations e.g. based on instructions in the authentication database detect selection of authentication elements associated selected authentication elements with a user s hand move selected authentication elements in response to detected user hand movements record selected authentication elements determine that authentication inputs match user authentication information in the authentication database communicate with secure systems and devices and provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the database has been illustrated as located in the wearable user device one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the authentication engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on merchants and users however a user or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus merchant as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a payer. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

