---

title: Methods for generating notifications in a shared workspace
abstract: A method includes providing, by a server computer, a shared workspace for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users. The method also includes monitoring information associated with the shared workspace, the information relating to each user from the plurality of users. The method also includes determining whether a notification definition is satisfied, the notification definition based at least in part on the information associated with the shared workspace, and outputting, for display to at least one user from the plurality of users, a notification, in response to determining that the notification definition is satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584565&OS=09584565&RS=09584565
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09584565
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131008
---
The disclosure herein relates generally to generating notifications in computer software applications that facilitate collaborative work among a group of users which are referred to herein as shared workspaces. 

Shared workspaces allow a group of users to work collaboratively on a project. For example shared workspaces can allow shared access to files provide task management capabilities and provide ways for team members to communicate with one another. Access to a shared workspace is typically limited to specified users who have been granted access to the shared workspace.

One aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes providing by a server computer a shared workspace for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users. The method also includes monitoring information associated with the shared workspace the information relating to each user from the plurality of users. The method also includes determining whether a notification definition is satisfied. The notification definition is based at least in part on the information associated with the shared workspace and outputting for display to at least one user from the plurality of users a notification in response to determining that the notification definition is satisfied.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes providing by a server computer a shared workspace for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users. The shared workspace includes a document storage system and an event scheduling system. The method also includes analyzing file contents for one or more files stored at the document storage system and analyzing event information from the event scheduling system. The method further includes determining whether a notification definition is satisfied the notification definition based in part on the file contents and is based further in part on the event information and outputting for display to at least one user from the plurality of users a notification in response to determining that the notification definition is satisfied.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes providing by a server computer a shared workspace for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users. The shared workspace includes a document editing system and an event scheduling system. The method also includes analyzing document editing activity from the document editing system and analyzing event information from the event scheduling system. The method also includes determining whether a notification definition is satisfied. The notification definition is based in part on the document editing activity and is based further in part on the event information. The method also includes outputting for display to at least one user from the plurality of users a notification in response to determining that the notification definition is satisfied.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes providing by a server computer a shared workspace for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users. The shared workspace includes a task tracking system and an event scheduling system. The method also includes analyzing task tracking information from the task tracking system and analyzing event information from the event scheduling system. The method also includes determining whether a notification definition is satisfied. The notification definition is based in part on the task tracking information and is based further in part on the event information. The method also includes outputting for display to at least one user from the plurality of users a notification in response to determining that the notification definition is satisfied.

Methods for generating notifications in a shared workspace are disclosed herein. When working with a group on a project using a shared workspace keeping track of all of activities of the group can be difficult and important information may be overlooked. The systems and methods herein monitor information generated by user activities within the shared workspace to provide meaningful insights based on information culled from different types of activities and culled from actions taken by multiple users from the group.

The systems services servers and other computing devices described herein are in communication via a network . The network can be one or more communications networks of any suitable type in any combination including wireless networks wired networks local area networks wide area networks cellular data networks and the internet.

The workspace service provides a shared workspace to a defined group of users including operators associated with the user system and the additional group member systems . As used herein a shared workspace is any manner of system program or interface that allows a defined group of users to utilize an access restricted system in which information can be shared between users for the purpose of collaboratively working on a project. As will be discussed herein shared workspaces can implement document storage functions document creation and editing functions messaging functions discussion functions event scheduling functions and task tracking functions. In some implementations the workspace service allows a particular shared workspace to be accessed upon presentation of a credential such as a username and password combination that are associated with a registered user of that particular shared workspace. In some implementations one or more users of each shared workspace are able to grant access to additional users or revoke access from existing users.

Each server computer can include memory such as a random access memory device RAM . Any other suitable type of storage device can be used as the memory . The memory can include code and data that can be accessed by the CPU using a bus . The memory can further include one or more application programs and an operating system . The application programs can include software components in the form of computer executable program instructions that cause the CPU to perform the operations and methods described herein.

A storage device can be optionally provided in the form of any suitable computer readable medium such as a hard disc drive a memory device a flash drive or an optical drive. One or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse or a gesture sensitive input device receive user inputs and can output signals or data indicative of the user inputs to the CPU . One or more output devices can be provided such as a display device . The display device such as liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT allows output to be presented to a user for example in response to receiving a video signal.

Although depicts the CPU and the memory of each server computer as being integrated into a single unit other configurations can be utilized. The operations of the CPU can be distributed across multiple machines each machine having one or more of processors which can be coupled directly or across a local area or other network. The memory can be distributed across multiple machines such as network based memory or memory in multiple machines. Although depicted here as a single bus the bus of each of each server computer can be composed of multiple buses. Further the storage device can be directly coupled to the other components of the respective one of the server computers or can be accessed via a network and can comprise a single integrated unit such as a memory card or multiple units such as multiple memory cards. The one or more server computers can thus be implemented in a wide variety of configurations.

A workspace manager is provided to oversee and coordinate the operations performed by other components of the workspace service . For example the workspace manager can allow for creation of new projects for adding or removing users as group members for those projects for providing user interfaces that display information relating to the project and representative of information that is provided to the workspace manager by the various other components of the workspace service . As will further be described herein the workspace manager is operable to receive information from the other components of the workspace service and thereby monitor information that is associated with the shared workspace where the information that is monitored by the workspace manager represents actions taken by each group member for a particular project in using any of the components of the workspace service .

The workspace service can include a document storage system . The document storage system provides shared file access for the shared workspace. For each shared workspace hosted at the workspace service the document storage system stores files that are associated with the respective shared workspace and allows the users that have been granted access to that shared workspace to access those files at the document storage system . The document storage system can monitor actions taken by the users of the shared workspace at the document storage system . For example the document storage system can monitor which files are accessed when those files are accessed the identity of the user accessing each file and the duration over which each file was accessed. This information can be provided to the workspace manager . The document storage system can further provide the workspace manager with one or more of the files stored at the document storage system for analysis by the workspace manager as to the substantive content of the file.

The workspace service can include a document editing system . The document editing system is operable to allow creation of files for later storage at the document storage system or can be utilized to edit previously created files that are retrieved from the document storage system or from an external location. As an example the document editing system can be a word processing application. As another example the document editing system can be a spreadsheet application. As another example the document editing system can be a presentation application. As another example the document editing system can be a graphic design application. Other types of applications can be provided as the document editing system . The document editing system can provide information regarding document editing activity to the workspace manager . As an example the information regarding document editing activity can include information describing the duration over which a document was edited the extent of edits performed with respect to a document such as for example the number of characters added or modified in a word processing document or the substantive content of the portions of a document that are added or modified at the document editing system during a document editing session. Other types of information could be provided to the workspace manager by the document editing system regarding document editing activities performed using the document editing system .

The workspace service can further include a messaging system . The messaging system can be an application that allows communication between the users of a particular shared workspace. As one example the messaging system can be a text based chat application. As another example the messaging system can be a voice chat application. As another example the messaging system can be a video conferencing application. The messaging system can provide information to the workspace manager regarding messaging activities performed using the messaging system . As one example the messaging system can provide information describing the occurrence of a messaging session such as a video conference that occurs between multiple group members. The messaging system can also provide messaging activity information to the workspace manager identifying the users that participated in a particular messaging session. The messaging system can also generate a transcript of a particular messaging system and transmit it to the workspace manager for substantive analysis such that a particular messaging session can be correlated to other activities performed within the shared workspace. Other types of information can be provided to the workspace manager from the messaging system as the messaging activity information by describing any aspect of the operation of the messaging system .

The workspace service can also include a discussion system . The discussion system can allow for long term discussions regarding a topic where the discussions occur in the form of a series comments or posts by the users of the shared workspace and do not necessarily occur in real time. The workspace service can provide a dedicated interface for discussions and or an interface for providing discussions that relate to and are shown in conjunction with other assets managed by within the shared workspace such as documents tasks or events. Thus when a user views an event a discussion regarding the event can be shown alongside the event. Discussion information regarding comments posts and other types of discussions can be stored by the discussion system and provided to the workspace manager .

The workspace service can also include an event scheduling system . The event scheduling system can provide a means by which group members of the shared workspace can schedule events and view those events on a calendar type interface. The event scheduling system can provide event information to the workspace manager such as information describing events that have been scheduled using the event scheduling system as well as any substantive content that is associated with those events.

The workspace service can further include a task tracking system . The task tracking system allows tasks to be created assigned to one or more users and tracked using status indicators that provide information as to whether each task has been completed by the user or users to which it was assigned. The task tracking system can provide task information to the workspace manager . For example the task information can describe the tasks that are tracked at the task tracking system as well as the person s associated with each task and the status of each task.

Other types of components can be included as part of the workspace service and other types of information can be provided to the workspace manager . As one example location information regarding a current location of each of the users of the shared workspace could be provided to the workspace manager . As another example information related to electronic mail messages relating to the project associated with the shared workspace could be provided to the workspace manager . Numerous other examples are possible and thus any information regarding activities taken by users of the shared workspace in the context of the shared workspace or one of its constituent components can be tracked by the workspace manager .

The information that is received by the workspace manager from the various components of the workspace service can be aggregated and stored as workspace information . The workspace information is information regarding the activities of some or all of the users of the shared workspace across the multiple components of the workspace service .

The workspace information can be as an example a collection of information describing actions taken by the users of the shared workspace. In addition the workspace information can include textual information written by the users in the context of for example the document editing system the messaging system and the discussion system . This textual information can be aggregated and utilized as a basis for triggering notifications as will be described further herein.

The notification generator can utilize notification definitions that each describe a notification that can be output for display to the user the types of information that can be considered when determining whether the notification definition is satisfied and the conditions under which the notification definition is satisfied. When the notification definition is satisfied the notification that is described by the notification definition can be output for display. There are many possible conditions that can be evaluated using the workspace information either by utilizing a single type of information to determine whether a condition is satisfied or by utilizing multiple pieces of information to determine whether a condition is satisfied such as relatedness of two different pieces of information derived from different components of the workspace service . Notification definitions are considered to be satisfied when the notification generator determines that the notification described by a particular notification condition should be output for displayed based on the conditions or other information provided by the notification definition that describe the circumstances under which the notification should be displayed. In a simple example a notification definition could be satisfied based on a determination that a set of pre defined conditions are met. In other examples whether some or all of the notification definitions are satisfied can be based on a ranking that considers the workspace information in conjunction with factors such as relevancy user behavior pattern analysis and user specified preferences.

As one example a notification definition could include as a necessary condition that an event is scheduled to occur within a specified period of time. As another example a notification definition could include as a necessary condition that no new tasks were created during a specified time frame. As another example a notification definition could include as a necessary condition that some or all of the users of the shared workspace do not have an event scheduled at a particular time. As another example a notification definition could include as a necessary condition that a user has performed a high number of actions that relate to a specific topic. As another example a notification definition could be satisfied based on a semantic analysis of textual information written by the users that is included in the workspace information.

The notification generator utilizes the workspace information to determine whether the notification definitions are satisfied. Thus the notification generator can process some or all of the notification definitions in each case using some or all of the workspace information and one of the notification definitions as inputs. For each of the notification definitions that is satisfied the notification can be output for display such as by transmission of information from the workspace service to the user system that when interpreted by the user system causes the notification to be output for display at the user system .

In one implementation the notification generator operates in real time by processing the notification definitions based on the workspace information while the user system is utilizing the workspace service . In addition processing of specific rules can be triggered by changes to related types of information. For example execution of one of the notification definitions that depends upon event information can be processed by the notification generator in response to a change in the event information. In another implementation the notification definitions can be processed without regard to whether the user system is currently utilizing the workspace service . For example the notification definitions can be processed for a particular workspace or for particular users of a workspace on a predetermined schedule or on a rolling queue based schedule based on availability of the notification generator .

The workspace interface screen can include interface elements that allow users of the shared workspace to utilize the various functions and components of the shared workspace. By way of example the workspace interface screen can include a search box that allows users to execute search queries with respect to the information relating to the shared workspace. As another example the workspace interface screen can include a menu that allows users to access the functions of the various components provided by the shared workspace. As another example the workspace interface screen can include an update area in which update objects are output for display. The update objects include information relating to usage of the shared workspace such as addition of files to the shared workspace modification of files in the shared workspace the presence of new comments or discussions creation of new tasks and other types of information derived from actions taken by the users of the shared workspace.

The workspace interface screen includes a notification area . Notifications regarding information relating to the shared workspace such as the notification of can be output for display in the notification area . In the illustrated example a first example notification card is output for display in the notification area .

The first example notification card can include a notification message . In the illustrated example the notification message advises the user to prepare for your meeting identifies a meeting based on for example a pre exiting event described by event information from the event scheduling system and identifies the time at which the meeting is scheduled to occur.

The first example notification card can include a reference to one or more files that are stored at the document storage system and in the illustrated example includes interface elements for accessing documents that are stored at the document storage system. The first example notification card indicates to the user that the files referenced by the interface elements are files that the user may wish to review in advance of the meeting that is referenced by the notification message . The files that are referenced by the interface elements can be identified based on the workspace information using for example information from the document storage system showing that the files have been accessed by one or more of the users of the shared workspace in advance of the meeting or information representing the substantive content of the documents that are stored at the document storage system upon determining that the topic of the event referenced by the notification message is substantively related to the subject matter described in the documents referenced by the interface elements .

Additional interface elements and information can be included in the first example notification card . For example the first example notification card can include an interface element for causing the user to join the meeting referenced by the notification message such as by video conference. Additional information that is included in the first example notification card can include a countdown timer which shows the amount of time remaining before the meeting that is referenced in the notification message .

The first example notification card can be output for display in response to determining that a notification definition is satisfied as described in connection with the notification generator of . The notification definition is based at least in part on usage information regarding usage of the shared workspace by the users of the shared workspace as described with respect to the workspace information . As an example the first example notification card can be output for display in response to determining that a notification definition is satisfied where the notification definition is based in part on event information from the event scheduling system that identifies that a meeting will occur in the near future as well as based on information from the document storage system and or the document editing system where the information indicates that one or more files that are stored at the document storage system are relevant to the topic of the meeting described by the information obtained from the event scheduling system . Relevance of the one or more files to the meeting can be based on for example a similarity ranking for the files in the document storage system with respect to the event information such as a description of the meeting that is included in the event information. In order to generate a similarity ranking one or more files are accessed from the document storage system and the contents of the files are processed using a ranking algorithm according to well known methods. Relevance of the one or more files to the meeting can be based additionally or alternatively on file usage activity such as file access by users of the shared workspace in advance of the meeting. Thus the file access activities of users that are invited to a meeting within a period of time in advance of the meeting can be utilized as inputs to the notification definition for determining that certain files are relevant to the meeting. This is an example of workspace information regarding the actions of a first user of the shared workspace being utilized as a basis for generation of a notification for a second user of the shared workspace.

The above notification cards and their inputs and conditions are given as examples. Other notifications can be generated and output for display and the various types of information and conditions are examples and other types of information and conditions can be utilized in various combinations.

At operation a shared workspace is provided. The shared workspace can be provided for facilitating collaborative work by a plurality of users who are granted access to the shared workspace. The shared workspace can include various components and systems for facilitating collaborative work such as the components and systems described with respect to the workspace service. The shared workspace can be provided for example by the workspace service executed by the one or more server computers for access via the network by the user system and the additional group member systems .

At operation information is monitored. Information can be monitored for example in the manner explained with respect to the workspace manager of by receiving information from the various systems and components of the workspace service . The information monitored at operation can be output as described with respect to the workspace information for further processing.

At operation a determination is made as to whether a notification definition is satisfied. This can be performed for example as described with respect to the notification generator of by processing the workspace information against the notification definitions . If it is determined at operation that at least one notification definition is satisfied the process continues to operation where a notification is output such as in the manner described with respect to the notification . If it is determined that no notification definitions are satisfied the process returns to operation .

The foregoing description describes only some exemplary implementations of the described techniques. Other implementations are available. For example the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

The implementations of the computer devices e.g. clients and servers described herein can be realized in hardware software or any combination thereof. The hardware can include for example computers intellectual property IP cores application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays optical processors programmable logic controllers microcode microcontrollers servers microprocessors digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit. In the claims the term processor should be understood as encompassing any of the foregoing hardware either singly or in combination. The terms signal and data are used interchangeably. Further portions of each of the clients and each of the servers described herein do not necessarily have to be implemented in the same manner.

Operations that are described as being performed by a single processor computer or device can be distributed across a number of different processors computers or devices. Similarly operations that are described as being performed by different processors computers or devices can in some cases be performed by a single processor computer or device.

Although features may be described above or claimed as acting in certain combinations one or more features of a combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

The systems described herein such as client computers and server computers can be implemented using general purpose computers processors with a computer program that when executed carries out any of the respective methods algorithms and or instructions described herein. In addition or alternatively for example special purpose computers processors can be utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the methods algorithms or instructions described herein.

Some portions of above description include disclosure presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of implementations of this disclosure could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

At least one implementation of this disclosure relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable storage medium that can be accessed by the computer.

All or a portion of the embodiments of the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from for example a non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium. The computer program when executed can carry out any of the respective techniques algorithms and or instructions described herein. A non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device that can for example tangibly contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with any processor. The non transitory medium can be for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for tangibly containing storing communicating or transporting electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

