---

title: Security management for cloud services
abstract: A cloud management node () in a public cloud () works together with a private management system () in a private cloud () to manage provisioning and access to cloud services from the private cloud (). Private data does not need to be held or duplicated in the public cloud so that the data security is enhanced. The private management system () issues tokens for authorization so that user access to cloud services may be controlled. The cloud management node () receives provisioning requests from the private cloud () and selects and informs an appropriate service provider node () that a provisioning request is waiting. In examples an administrator at the private cloud () is able to manage cloud service access for many users in a simple effective manner and users are able to operate multiple cloud services from a single account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319411&OS=09319411&RS=09319411
owner: Proximitum Limited
number: 09319411
owner_city: Aylesbury
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130115
---
This application is a National Stage of International patent application PCT GB2013 050073 filed on Jan. 15 2013 which claims priority to foreign United Kingdom patent application No. GB 1200703.5 filed on Jan. 17 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Cloud services such as software applications and or computing resources provided over the internet an intranet or other communications network are increasingly widespread in many domains. For example in the fields of document management image processing passport control systems database access information retrieval and others.

Many different service providers exist with different types of service provider nodes in the network using different communications protocols and equipment. End users typically register with each different service provider they wish to use and may open an account with each different service provider. Communications between end user equipment and the various heterogeneous service provider nodes proceeds according to the various different communications protocols of the service provider equipment. Typically authentication and authorization processes are implemented using technology at the service provider nodes.

The embodiments described below are not limited to implementations which solve any or all of the disadvantages of known cloud services equipment and processes.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements or delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to present a selection of concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Security management for cloud services is described. In various embodiments a cloud management node in a public cloud works together with a private management system in a private cloud to manage provisioning and access to cloud services from the private cloud. In various embodiments private data does not need to be held or duplicated in the public cloud so that security is enhanced. In various embodiments a private management system issues tokens for authorization so that user access to cloud services may be controlled. In some embodiments a cloud management node receives provisioning requests from a private cloud and selects and informs an appropriate service provider node that a provisioning request is waiting. In examples an administrator at a private cloud is able to manage cloud service access for many users in a simple effective manner and users are able to operate multiple cloud services from a single account.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present example may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of the example and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the example. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

A plurality of service provider nodes are provided in the public cloud each comprising a resource which is computer implemented. For example the resource may be a computing resource and or a software application. In an example a service provider node is arranged to provide an information retrieval system whereby other entities which may be end users and or other service provider nodes are able to obtain information retrieval results. The other entities which make use of the service provider node may be in the public cloud or in the private cloud .

Access to the service provider nodes may be controlled for security reasons and to prevent inappropriate or malicious use. For example entities which access the service provider nodes may register with the service provider nodes or an associated node in the public cloud and as part of the registration process network address identity data and other private data may be stored at the service provider nodes or other associated nodes in the public cloud. In order to access multiple different service provider nodes an end user or other entity may register multiple times once for each different service provider node. Once registration is successfully completed an end user or other entity may access service provider nodes where an authorization and or authentication process is successfully completed at the service provider node. It is recognized here that such types of registration and authentication authorization processes are complex time consuming and also lead to security risks. For example by making repeated requests to service provider nodes at very high volumes the service provider nodes are open to denial of service attacks by malicious entities. Also there is a security risk in that the private data provided by end users during the registration process exists in the public cloud potentially being duplicated many times in the public cloud and so is potentially open to leaks to malicious entities. Also it is difficult for end users or other entities to manage and keep track of all the different registrations they have and the security of the associated data in the public cloud. It is recognized here that communications with the service provider nodes changes over time as staff join leave change roles and where contractors are given access to service provider nodes for limited periods of time. This introduces additional complexity especially in ensuring security of data and managing authorization and authentication processes.

A cloud management node may be provided in the public cloud to facilitate security management for cloud services. The cloud management node may be in communication with one or more of the service provider nodes using any suitable communications protocol such as security assertion markup language SAML representational state transfer REST or other secure communications protocol. In the example in the cloud management node is shown as a single entity but this is not essential the functionality of the cloud management node may be distributed over more than one entity.

The cloud management node is computer implemented and comprises at least an identity engine a brokerage engine a portal and a tracking engine . A tracking store may be in communication with the cloud management node or integral with the cloud management node. The identity engine is arranged to securely check identity and authorization details with one or more private management systems in private clouds . Any private data that it stores is extremely limited and at most comprises redacted private identity data for example in the form of security tokens described in more detail later . Using the secure checking process and security tokens mitigates against breach of the private data. Private data does not need to be stored at duplicate locations in the public cloud.

The brokerage engine comprises communications functionality arranged to receive provisioning requests and other inputs from entities requiring to use one or more service provider nodes . The brokerage engine comprises functionality to select appropriate service provider nodes to create messages in appropriate communications protocol formats and queue those and to inform service provider nodes when appropriate that queued messages are present. Service provider nodes are then able to actively collect a secure queued message from the brokerage engine when allowed to do so by the brokerage engine . By enabling service provider nodes to actively collect secure messages in this way security is enhanced. For example man in the middle attacks on service providers are less likely to succeed in enabling malicious entities to gain unauthorized access. Also denial of service attacks on service providers are mitigated against. Often denial of service attacks are against public listening TCP or UDP ports. The methods described above with respect to the brokerage engine mitigate against public listening since message are sent to a private port which trigger an action by the service provider node to fetch a request.

A portal is provided in the form of a web based interface or other interface for enabling administrators end users or other entities to access the cloud management node for example for any of provisioning management and reporting of cloud services. A tracking engine is arranged to track use of the various service provider nodes and is able to access the tracking store at which data about use of the service provider nodes is stored. The tracking engine may be arranged to monitor the queues at the brokerage engine in order to record use of the various service providers.

The private cloud comprises a private management system which is computer implemented and enables an administrator or other operator s to manage provisioning and use of cloud services available in the public cloud . For example the private cloud may be an intranet of an enterprise and the private management system may be operable by an administrator at the enterprise who manages use of cloud services by staff of the enterprise such as end users contractors or other entities in the private cloud. The cloud services may be subscription based services in some cases and the private management system enables an administrator to manage accounts at those services subscription levels and other provisioning and access factors. The private management system has access to a private identity store which may hold private data about end users such as staff or contactors and any authorizations for use of cloud services associated with those staff or contractors. The private identity store may be in a physically secure location at the enterprise premises or other secure location. It is located in the private cloud and so is behind a firewall or other secure mechanism with respect to the public cloud which reduces the risk of breach of the private data.

The request message comprises details of the sender of the request. The cloud management node optionally verifies the sender of the request message as a result of the sender being logged onto the portal.

The request message comprises a provisioning request for example. In the case that an administrator requires to give two new members of staff access to a database service provided by service provider node A then the request message may comprise a request for two additional subscriptions from an enterprise associated with the specified private cloud but without comprising any private information about the individuals. In another example the provisioning request may comprise a request to cancel one or more subscriptions to create a new subscription to a service provider node or to change quality of service levels or other functionality to be provided. The administrator updates the private management system such that user rights and access levels are recorded in the private identity store.

The request message comprises details of a resource e.g software application or computing resource that is required. The details may be one or more requirements rather than a specification of a resource provided by a particular service provider node. The requirements may relate to quality of service functionality pricing or other factors. The cloud management node is arranged to identify or select an appropriate service provider node given the details and knowledge of the resources. Rules or other criteria may be used by the cloud management node to make the selection. The cloud management node may take into account information about availability of the resources such as current and projected workloads and may take into account bandwidth limitations associated with the resources. The cloud management node formats the request message for a communications protocol used by the selected service provider node. Different service provider nodes may use different communications protocols. 

The cloud management node identifies a public key of the selected service provider node. For example each service provider node has a public private key pair established using a suitable cryptographic method and the public keys of the service provider nodes are known or accessible to the cloud management node.

The cloud management node encrypts the formatted request message using the public key of the selected service provider node. The secure encrypted request message is then placed into one of a plurality of queues at a brokerage engine of the cloud management node. For example each queue is associated with one service provider node. A message is sent from the cloud management node to the selected service provider node to inform the service provider node that a queued message is waiting. The service provider node is then able to collect the encrypted message from the queue using SAML REST or any other suitable communications protocol.

If the informing message is dropped for example because of a loss of communications between the service provider node and the cloud management node then the informing message may be resent after a delay. This is beneficial as if the formatted request message were immediately forwarded to the selected service provider node and lost due to packets being dropped then the administrator or other entity would need to repeat the provisioning request.

The service provider node is able to decrypt the message and obtain the provisioning request and details of the sender such as the private cloud or private management system . The service provider node does not obtain private data of the staff or other individuals associated with the provisioning request.

As messages are taken from the queues at the brokerage engine a tally or other record is updated . This may be used to provide a record of subscriptions to the various service provider nodes by the private management system. The record may be a useful cross check for private management systems and service provider nodes where these entities also keep their own records.

The service provider node actions the provisioning request for example by adding subscriptions or cancelling subscriptions. The service provider node may send feedback to the cloud management node indicating whether the provisioning requests have been successfully auctioned. The feedback is received at the cloud management node and used to update the user private management system or other entity and optionally also to update the tracked data.

The service provider node receives the access attempt and may have no information from the access attempt to indicate whether the entity is authorized to access the resource. The service provider node may refuse access to the resource and send a message to the entity which redirects the entity to the cloud management node . The entity which desires to access the resource receives a redirection to the cloud management node . For example the service provider node may send this redirection using pre configured information about the address of the service provider node.

The entity which desires to access the resource sends a request to access the resource to the cloud management node. This request may comprise an identity of the private cloud and details of at least one resource to be accessed. The details may be an identifier of a particular service provider or requirements of resources that the entity would prefer to access. The request comprises an identifier of the end user or other entity making the request but need not comprise any other private data such as access level rights of the end user.

The cloud management node receives the request for access. It knows the identity of the private cloud from which the request was made. It sends a request to a private management system of that private cloud for identity information. The request comprises an identifier of the end user or other entity making the request. The private management system receives the request for identity information. The private management system accesses the private identity store to find private data associated with the identifier of the end user or other entity. For example it finds which services the end user is authorized to use and which user rights and access levels the end user has.

The private management system generates a token comprising redacted end user information. The token is generated using the information accessed from the private identity store. For example a token comprises claims that define an entity s access and user rights for one or more resources at the service provider nodes. The token may be encrypted using any suitable cryptographic technique.

The private management system sends the token comprising redacted end user information to the cloud management node. The cloud management node checks the token after decryption if appropriate and if the check is successful the cloud management node issues a cloud secured token which it sends in a message to the end user or other entity. The message directs that entity to the resource and the resource uses the token to authenticate and or authorize access to the resource. The end user or other entity thus receives from the cloud management node a redirection to the resource. The token need not be stored at the cloud management node after use so that any redacted private data is not stored in the public cloud.

A user or administrator device in a private cloud submits a request to a cloud management node for provisioning a resource of a service provider node . The cloud management node selects an appropriate service provider node and formats or packages the request message appropriately as described above. It places the formatted encrypted request message into one of a plurality of queues at a brokerage engine of the cloud management node . The brokerage engine informs the service provider node that an item is in the queue. The service provider node collects the request message from the queue. The service provider node decrypts and actions the provisioning request and results of the provisioning action are returned as an application result from the resource to the service provider node . Operation feedback is sent from the service provider node to the brokerage engine and reporting and licensing updates are made by the brokerage engine to a tracking engine at the cloud management node . The cloud management node may send feedback of the provisioning to the user.

Using the process of a single user has only one account which is at the private management system. There is no need for separate accounts at each of the internal or external resources. Also there is no need for account security information to be replicated or present in the public cloud. Also if a user leaves then only one account needs to be disabled.

In this way an administrator at an enterprise or other organization need only use the broker portal to add user to the applications in one place. The cloud management system provisions the users accordingly across multiple cloud services.

The computing based device comprises one or more inputs which are of any suitable type for receiving media content Internet Protocol IP input input from entities in a private cloud or other input. The device also comprises communication interface which enables it to communicate with other entities in a communications network. For example service provider nodes user devices private management systems cloud management nodes or other entities.

Computing based device also comprises one or more processors which may be microprocessors controllers or any other suitable type of processors for processing computer executable instructions to control the operation of the device in order to manage provisioning and or access to service provider nodes. In some examples for example where a system on a chip architecture is used the processors may include one or more fixed function blocks also referred to as accelerators which implement a part of any of the methods described herein in hardware rather than software or firmware . Platform software comprising an operating system or any other suitable platform software may be provided at the computing based device to enable application software to be executed on the device. In the case that the computing based device is a cloud management node it may comprise an identity engine and a brokerage engine . It may comprise a data store holding tracked data rules and criteria or other information.

The computer executable instructions may be provided using any computer readable media that is accessible by computing based device . Computer readable media may include for example computer storage media such as memory and communications media. Computer storage media such as memory includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. As defined herein computer storage media does not include communication media. Therefore a computer storage medium should not be interpreted to be a propagating signal per se. Although the computer storage media memory is shown within the computing based device it will be appreciated that the storage may be distributed or located remotely and accessed via a network or other communication link e.g. using communication interface .

An output interface is also provided such as an audio and or video output to a display system integral with or in communication with the computing based device. The display system may provide a graphical user interface or other user interface of any suitable type although this is not essential.

The term computer or computing based device is used herein to refer to any device with processing capability such that it can execute instructions. Those skilled in the art will realize that such processing capabilities are incorporated into many different devices and therefore the terms computer and computing based device each include PCs servers mobile telephones including smart phones tablet computers set top boxes media players games consoles personal digital assistants and many other devices.

The methods described herein may be performed by software in machine readable form on a tangible storage medium e.g. in the form of a computer program comprising computer program code means adapted to perform all the steps of any of the methods described herein when the program is run on a computer and where the computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium. Examples of tangible or non transitory storage media include computer storage devices comprising computer readable media such as disks thumb drives memory etc and do not include propagated signals. The software can be suitable for execution on a parallel processor or a serial processor such that the method steps may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously.

This acknowledges that software can be a valuable separately tradable commodity. It is intended to encompass software which runs on or controls dumb or standard hardware to carry out the desired functions. It is also intended to encompass software which describes or defines the configuration of hardware such as HDL hardware description language software as is used for designing silicon chips or for configuring universal programmable chips to carry out desired functions.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store program instructions can be distributed across a network. For example a remote computer may store an example of the process described as software. A local or terminal computer may access the remote computer and download a part or all of the software to run the program. Alternatively the local computer may download pieces of the software as needed or execute some software instructions at the local terminal and some at the remote computer or computer network . Those skilled in the art will also realize that by utilizing conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art that all or a portion of the software instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a DSP programmable logic array or the like.

Any range or device value given herein may be extended or altered without losing the effect sought as will be apparent to the skilled person.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

It will be understood that the benefits and advantages described above may relate to one embodiment or may relate to several embodiments. The embodiments are not limited to those that solve any or all of the stated problems or those that have any or all of the stated benefits and advantages. It will further be understood that reference to an item refers to one or more of those items.

The steps of the methods described herein may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously where appropriate. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from any of the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Aspects of any of the examples described above may be combined with aspects of any of the other examples described to form further examples without losing the effect sought.

The term comprising is used herein to mean including the method blocks or elements identified but that such blocks or elements do not comprise an exclusive list and a method or apparatus may contain additional blocks or elements.

It will be understood that the above description is given by way of example only and that various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the structure and use of exemplary embodiments. Although various embodiments have been described above with a certain degree of particularity or with reference to one or more individual embodiments those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of this specification.

