---

title: System and method for data verification using a smart phone
abstract: A system and method for data verification using a smart phone which verifies data and biometric identity information using only locally stored biometric information. The system and method for data verification using a smart phone generally includes a mobile device, a central validating server, and an activation client. The validating server and activation client are utilized upon initial activation of the mobile device to verify data information (i.e. name, date of birth, social security number, etc.) and/or biometric data regarding an individual and then flag the mobile device as activated and verified. The biometric data is not stored in any location other than the memory of the mobile device. The activated and verified mobile device may then be utilized in combination with a wide range of verification clients to easily verify data information and/or biometric data of an individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09084115&OS=09084115&RS=09084115
owner: 
number: 09084115
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130820
---
I hereby claim benefit under Title 35 United States Code Section 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 822 480 filed May 13 2013. The 61 822 480 application. The 61 822 480 application is hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The present invention relates generally to a smart phone data verification system and more specifically it relates to a system and method for data verification using a smart phone which verifies data and biometric identity information using only locally stored biometric information.

Any discussion of the related art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an admission that such related art is widely known or forms part of common general knowledge in the field.

Mobile devices such as smart phones are increasingly including biometric scanners such as fingerprint scanners in their hardware. Additionally larger proportions of our population utilize such mobile devices on a day to day basis. However mobile devices have as of yet not become standard for use in verifying data information to replace various identification cards and the like which are traditionally carried in a wallet or purse.

Thus individuals in present times are still using antiquated methods of verification which are too commonly susceptible to counterfeit i.e. identity theft through social security number theft . The slow rate of adoption of these new technologies may stem from the individual s reluctance to have biometric information stored on a third party server particularly in light of the potential for misuse of that information by third parties.

Because of the inherent problems with the related art there is a need for a new and improved system and method for data verification using a smart phone which verifies data and biometric identity information using only locally stored biometric information.

The invention generally relates to a data verification system which includes a mobile device a central validating server and an activation client. The validating server and activation client are utilized upon initial activation of the mobile device to verify data information i.e. name date of birth social security number etc. and or biometric data regarding an individual and then flag the mobile device as activated and verified. The biometric data is not stored in any location other than the memory of the mobile device. The activated and verified mobile device may then be utilized at a wide range of verification clients to easily verify data information and or biometric data of an individual. For example the activated mobile phone may be utilized to easily verify the age of the owner prior to admission to a bar wherein the bar has its own verification client i.e. handheld scanner .

There has thus been outlined rather broadly some of the features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and that will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto. In this respect before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction or to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of the description and should not be regarded as limiting.

The present invention may be utilized upon any telecommunications network capable of transmitting data including voice data and other types of electronic data. Examples of suitable telecommunications networks for the present invention include but are not limited to global computer networks e.g. Internet wireless networks cellular networks satellite communications networks cable communication networks via a cable modem microwave communications network local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN campus area networks CAN metropolitan area networks MAN and home area networks HAN . The present invention may communicate via a single telecommunications network or multiple telecommunications networks concurrently. Various protocols may be utilized by the electronic devices for communications such as but not limited to HTTP SMTP FTP and WAP wireless Application Protocol . The present invention may be implemented upon various wireless networks such as but not limited to 3G 4G LTE CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX REFLEX IDEN TETRA DECT DATATAC and MOBITEX. The present invention may also be utilized with online services and internet service providers.

The Internet is an exemplary telecommunications network for the present invention. The Internet is comprised of a global computer network having a plurality of computer systems around the world that are in communication with one another. Via the Internet the computer systems are able to transmit various types of data between one another. The communications between the computer systems may be accomplished via various methods such as but not limited to wireless Ethernet cable direct connection telephone lines and satellite.

The central validating server may be comprised of any central communication site where communications are preferably established with for initial validation purposes upon activation of the mobile device . The central validating server may be comprised of a server computer cloud based computer virtual computer home computer or other computer system capable of receiving and transmitting data via IP networks and the telecommunication networks . As can be appreciated a modem or other communication device may be required between each of the central communication units and the corresponding telecommunication networks . The central communication unit may be comprised of any electronic system capable of receiving and transmitting information e.g. voice data computer data etc. .

As shown in the central validating server is preferably comprised of an off location computing device such as a server computer which is adapted to transmit and receive data with both the activation client and the mobile device of the present invention via the communications network . The central validating server may be implemented across multiple devices or may be comprised of a single computing device. In embodiments implementing the central validating server across multiple devices those devices may themselves be interconnected via a communications network .

The central validating server will be adapted to communicate directly with the activation client via the communications network . The central validating server will receive data information from the activation client upon initial activation of the mobile device by a user of the present invention. Such data information may include information such as first name last name address social security number data of birth drivers license number voting district and the like. It is appreciated that the data information transferred to the central validating server by the activation client may vary greatly in different embodiments of the present invention and should not be construed as being limited by the exemplary list above. This data information may be stored on the validating server for future uses.

The central validating server will also generate and transmit a unique code back to the activation client via the communications network . This unique code may be comprised of letters numbers symbols binary or any other data capable of being verified by the central validating server at a later time. The unique code may be encrypted with various cryptology methods known in the art. Preferably the unique code will be unique to the mobile device being activated.

The central validating server will also be adapted to communicate directly with the mobile device via the communications network . As described below the central validating server will receive data information from the smart phone and compare the data information to that which was received and stored from the activation client . The central validating server will similarly receive the unique code from the smart phone and compare it to the unique code generated and sent to the activation client .

The activation client may be comprised of any communications device through which communications are preferably established with the central validation server to aid with initial activation of the mobile device . The activation client may be comprised of a server computer cloud based computer virtual computer home computer mobile device or other computer system capable of receiving and transmitting data via IP networks and the telecommunication networks . As can be appreciated a modem or other communication device may be required between the activation client and the corresponding telecommunication networks . The activation client may be comprised of any electronic system capable of receiving and transmitting information e.g. voice data computer data etc. .

The activation client is preferably located within a vendor s store such as a store where smart phones are sold and initially activated for use. The activation client may be comprised of a wide range of computing devices including cash registers handheld scanners personal computers laptops tablets and the like. Preferably none of the data information or other data being transmitted using the activation client will be stored in the memory thereof.

The activation client communicates directly with the central validating server via the communications network . The previously described data information will originate at the activation client . Generally this data information will be provided by the purchaser of the smart phone and entered directly into the activation client . The data information will then be transmitted via the communications network to the central validating server . The activation client will also receive the unique code from the central validating server .

The activation client will preferably be adapted to both transmit and receive data via near field communication NFC . After receipt of the unique code from the central validating server the unique code will be transmitted to the smart phone. A wide range of methods may be utilized to effectuate the transfer of this data including wired or wireless communications protocols. Preferably the unique code will be transmitted from the activation client to the mobile device via NFC.

In an alternate embodiment of the present invention the mobile device may instead originate the data information for transfer to the validating server . In this case the data information will be entered directly into the mobile device which will transmit the data information to the validating server which will then communicate the unique code back directly to the mobile device . The data information may then be entered into the activation client along with the unique code which is transferred back to the validating server to establish the initial activation of the mobile device .

The mobile device may be comprised of any type of mobile computing device being used by an individual for data and identity verification purposes. For example the mobile device can be a smart phone mobile laptop computer or tablet computer e.g. IPAD . The mobile device may also be comprised of various other electronic devices capable of sending and receiving electronic data including but not limited to mobile phones telephones personal digital assistants PDAs mobile electronic devices handheld wireless devices two way radios smart phones communicators video viewing units television units television receivers cable television receivers pagers communication devices and digital satellite receiver units.

The mobile device will preferably be adapted to communicate with the central validating server via the communications network . The mobile device may also include functionality to communicate with the activation client via NFC. Additionally the mobile device is preferably adapted to communicate with a wide range of verification clients as described below via any number of communications methods. The mobile device will also preferably include a fingerprint scanner or a camera capable of acting as a fingerprint scanner. In certain embodiments other biometric scanners may be incorporated into the mobile device such as retina scanners.

The mobile device will receive and store both data information and biometric information which is collected using the biometric scanner. The mobile device will additionally store the unique code received from the central validating server via the activation client . The biometric information will only be scanned once upon activation and stored preferably in an encrypted state within the mobile device s memory for use in verifying with various verification clients as described below.

The present invention will aid a wide range of verification clients in verifying various data and or biometric information regarding an individual. In some embodiments the mobile device may act as the verification client such as with a smart phone verifying an identity prior to allowing login to a banking application on the smart phone. In other embodiments the verification client may be comprised of a discrete computing device such as a handheld scanner or any of those previously described herein. The verification client may also be comprised of such computing devices as electronic voting machines vending machines and the like.

The mobile device will then prompt the user for a biometric scan and may prompt for entry of the data information in some embodiments the data information may be transferred from the activation client to the mobile device . The user will use the mobile device s biometric scanner to provide biometric information which is stored within the memory of the mobile device . This biometric information is not transferred to nor stored at either the activation client or the central validating server .

Upon verification and storage of the biometric scan the mobile device will transmit the unique code along with the data information to the central validating server . The central validating server will validate both the unique code and the data information is correct and then transmit an activation signal to the mobile device .

With the mobile device being activated it may be utilized to ease verification at various locations. For example when purchasing alcohol the mobile device may provide a verification confirmation to a verification client to easily verify the age of the owner of the mobile device . In another example the mobile device may be utilized to verify the identity and voting district of a voter with a verification client at an electronic voting center. In yet another example the mobile device may be utilized to verify the identity of the owner of the mobile device when financing a product such as a new car. There are a wide range of applications for the systems and methods described herein to ease verification of data and or biometric information when needed.

As shown in in the case where the mobile device acts as its own verification client for purposes of verifying information for a native or installed application the mobile device will call its application programming interface API which will prompt the user of the mobile device to provide biometric data via the biometric scanner to validate the user s identity. This biometric data will be compared to the biometric data previously stored during the activation processes. The user may then be prompted to restrict any other data information from being provided to that particular application. It is noted that in some cases if the user restricts information considered required by the program i.e. age data information for an online gambling application the application may decline verification. If all requisite data information and biometric data is verified the application will continue.

As shown in in the case where the verification client is a discrete device the verification client will establish communications with the mobile device such as wirelessly through NFC a communications network or various other methods. The verification client will connect to the mobile device such as via Bluetooth and call its API in some cases using a temporary user id password or other verification method to establish communication and access between the verification client and the mobile device . Once a connection is established the previously described methods for verification including the selection of data information to be transferred may be performed to verify information regarding the user to the verification client using the mobile device .

Any and all headings are for convenience only and have no limiting effect. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety to the extent allowed by applicable law and regulations.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. This includes but is not limited to magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital video discs and computer instruction signals embodied in a transmission medium with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are modulated . For example the transmission medium may include a telecommunications network such as the Internet.

The invention is described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments of the invention. These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer a special purpose computer a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example embodiments of the invention may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof and it is therefore desired that the present embodiment be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains and having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although methods and materials similar to or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described above. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

