---

title: Methods, systems and computer products for download status notification
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer products for download notification including identifying content for download, requesting a download of the content to a device and requesting a notification related to the status of the download.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172622&OS=09172622&RS=09172622
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09172622
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130510
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 593 378 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER PRODUCTS FOR DOWNLOAD STATUS NOTIFICATION filed Nov. 11 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to programming services and more particularly to methods systems and computer products for notifying a user when a requested download session from a content provider has been complete.

In order for a user to utilize web content the content must be downloaded from a network server to a content receiving presenting device. The content receiving device generally presents the content to the user or processes the content for some purpose. Originally Internet content included text and static images which were displayed by a browser program running on a personal computer or workstation. Information was often provided over a low speed dial up connection.

As Internet uses have grown the types of content have increased e.g. audio and video and the types of presentation devices have also increased e.g. cell phones pocket PC wireless PDA iPOD etc. In addition a variety of Internet access networks at a variety of speeds are available including digital subscriber line DSL cable wireless local area networks WLAN or Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS etc. The length of time required to transfer a complete item of content is proportional to the size and nature of the file and inversely proportional to the speed of the data connection and the processing power of the sending and receiving devices. Today s users expect content and broadband providers to provide content video audio images software updates in a timely manner. However as content grows more complex e.g. HDTV and networks more crowded downloads to some devices may not be immediate. In some cases a less expensive lower speed download may be an acceptable choice. Unless the user sits staring at the destination device the user may not be aware when the content has been downloaded and is ready for use.

In some cases the presentation device can begin to present the data being downloaded after a short initial buffering period. But in other cases the complete content must be downloaded before presentation or processing can start. In still other cases the user may simply prefer to download the file for later use in the way that a Netflix user orders movies for later use for example.

What is needed therefore is a way to notify a user when a download request is complete and that the requested content is now available for use.

Exemplary embodiments include a download notification method including identifying content for download requesting a download of the content to a device and requesting a notification related to the status of the download.

Additional exemplary embodiments a download notification system coupled to a network including a presentation device for receiving a notification related to a content download and a download notification application residing on at least one of the network the presentation device and a content services provider device the download notification application having instructions to identify the presentation device monitor the download and send a notification to the presentation device upon a download event.

Further exemplary embodiments include a computer program product for providing download notification services the computer program product including instructions for implementing a method including identifying a device for receiving downloaded content identifying a presentation device for receiving a notification related to the downloaded content determining a location from which notification is sent communicating with a notification server to receive notification preferences related to the downloaded content monitoring the downloading process of the downloaded content and sending a download notification to the presentation device in response to a download event on the device for receiving the downloaded content.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

In general exemplary embodiments include methods and systems that notify a user who has requested a download session when a download session has stopped. Further in accordance with exemplary embodiments service for customer notification via email SMPP or other alerts when a requested download session form a content provider has been successfully completed to any receiving device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA laptop desk top etc. are provided. A similar notification can be made if the download is unsuccessful. Exemplary embodiments apply to cases when a complete file must be downloaded in order to properly process or otherwise use and the transfer time is greater than the user wants to wait for completion. Further exemplary embodiments include a method for detecting the initiation of a file transfer waiting for termination of the file transfer and notifying the user that the transfer has terminated. In one implementation detection occurs at the server end. In another implementation detection occurs at the client end. In another implementation detection occurs in the transport network. Exemplary embodiments further include a system that notifies the user whenever the transfer of the content e.g. a movie album song ring tone etc. has stopped. The stop may be normal completion or it may be due to an error.

As discussed the systems and methods described herein can notify a user when the transfer time is greater than the user wants to wait for completion. For example for a large file such as a movie a user can be notified via a notification application when the movie has downloaded. As such the user can direct his attention to another task while the movie is downloading and be notified once the download is complete. In another example if the user has a low speed less expensive transfer method for any type of file the notification application can be implemented to alert the user. In another example a network operator could provide a transport service that uses idle network capacity and can in one instance implement trickle charging to deliver a file prior to a desired time of receipt. The term trickle charging refers to automated background downloading of content which is stored near the user e.g. on the user s premises or a nearby network element for later use. Content may be trickle charged following an explicit request by a user or may be pushed toward the user as a result of a network prediction that many users in an area may desire to view said content simultaneously. Trickle charging can be implemented to manage content distribution across networks with finite carrying capacity.

The term file is used to include one or more files used to compose a complete item of content such as the video audio and closed captioning files that make up a movie etc. The nature of the file s being transferred may affect the transfer speed if compression schemes are in use some files are more compressible than others.

In exemplary embodiments content services provider is implemented by a host system e.g. a high speed processing device that provides content to its customers e.g. a user of presentation device such as television programs premium programming services video on demand content and Internet Web content e.g. pod casts streaming media etc. ring tones audio files e.g. songs albums etc. . System can be used for applications that include large files that can take a long time to download. In exemplary embodiments the provided content is transmitted to customers via a broadband connection over an Internet Protocol IP based network e.g. network . In other exemplary embodiments system can also be used for applications in which even though the host system is capable of high speed data transfer the user implementing presentation device is only capable of low speed data transfer. System can further include storage device that is communicatively coupled to the content services provider e.g. via physical cabling or wireless means . Additionally storage device may be in communication with content services provider via one or more networks e.g. network . Storage device may store programming content as well as programming schedules for the content. In exemplary embodiments storage device stores records of programming events and notification events scheduled for transmission to customers such as presentation device . Content from content services provider can be from a variety of content sources e.g. motion picture industry television networks Internet based content providers etc. 

Storage device can be communicatively coupled to the content services provider e.g. via physical cabling or wireless means . Additionally storage device may be in communication with content services provider system via one or more networks e.g. network . In one implementation storage device can include a plurality of downloadable content and can be rendered on presentation device which can be via set top box discussed further in the description below. In other embodiments content can include play lists that can include programming content as well as programming schedules for the content e.g. onscreen programming guide information . In exemplary embodiments the storage device stores records of programming events scheduled for transmission to customers such as program receiving device . This transmission can be for immediate download or may be available at a future date and as discussed further below be provided via trickle charging. These records in turn include download information that is utilized by download notification application .

As discussed above presentation device can be any variety of devices that can be used to download render and process content. In an exemplary implementation presentation device can be network enabled and can include but is not limited to television TV Internet Protocol television IPTV cell phone smart phone PDA wireless PDA laptop desktop pocket PC iPOD etc. Presentation device may include display screen for viewing or other rendering of content provided by the content services provider system and selected by a user. As described current program content refers to an application having a large file that can take a period of time to download for which a user is not willing to wait. Display screen includes the ability to display multiple windows such that a user can view a desired window such as a window playing a movie and still be able to view a notification window or other notification indication such as an on screen icon or audible indicator which can be displayed upon the notification of a download status as discussed further in the description below.

Program receiving device can also include auxiliary devices such as set top box personal video recorder PVR and device which can be a remote control cellular phone PDA etc. In other exemplary embodiments described further below device can be another presentation device similar to presentation device . Set top box provides a connection between the presentation device and external sources of signals converting the signals into content that is displayed on a screen of presentation device . Where presentation device is receiving IPTV content set top box includes a computer that provides bi directional communications between network and presentation device and decodes the video streaming media received as content programming and onscreen programming information from content services provider system . Device can include options e.g. interface enabled by the notification for selecting an application that is capable of notifying the user that a download is complete. PVR can be communicatively coupled to presentation device and records programming as configured by a user of the presentation device . In exemplary embodiments downloads can be coupled to presentation device and PVR such that a download can be trickle charged not only to presentation device but also to PVR . As such movies and other files and applications can be pre provided to customers prior to a release date such that the file is available to the user on the release date. A download notification can then be sent to the user that the movie or file is now available for use. In another implementation if the content services provider has trickle charged a file to a user in anticipation of a release date but the file has completely downloaded prior to the release date the content services provider can delay notification until the release date.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments network is an IP based network that transmits programming content from content services provider system to customers such as program receiving device via a data connection. Network may be implemented in a wireless fashion e.g. using wireless protocols and technologies such as WiFi WiMax etc.

As mentioned above system further includes download notification application . Download notification application is configured to monitor download progress and notify the user who requested a download of the download success or failure. Download notification application and related download notification enabled services may be implemented as a single program executing on one of content services provider network and presentation device or may be separate physical or logical components that interact via e.g. an application programming interface or other technique. In general download notification application can reside in a number of locations within system and uses existing network resources for the notification services. In exemplary embodiments download notification application can reside on content services provider system . In other exemplary embodiments download notification application can reside on network . In further exemplary embodiments download notification application can reside on presentation device. These exemplary embodiments and others are now described.

It is appreciated that content services provider and content recipient presentation device are mutually aware of a file transfer transaction since that have agreed on an acceptable transfer method. Often the size of the transfer is communicated form the source of the file that is content services provider to the destination that is presentation device . Using this file size information either end of the transaction can detect when a successful transfer has completed. In addition the transport network that is network may be able to monitor the file transfer information exchanged between the source and the destination. Armed with this information network can also detect the end of a file transfer. Therefore it is also appreciated that notification application can reside and be utilized by any of the three aforementioned locations.

It is appreciated that under certain circumstances network may not be able to monitor the details of the file transfer request e.g. if the details are encrypted but network may still be able to determine that a file transfer is taking place by analyzing the source destination and traffic patterns of a series of packets. There may also be circumstances in which network is completely unable to detect the beginning and the end of a file transfer.

In any of the cases described and in other cases if a transfer stops whether at a successful conclusion or due to a fault of some sort the detecting system e.g. content service provider network presentation device etc. can send a message to notification server to alert the subscriber. If the status of the transfer is known e.g. successful stopped for unknown reason etc. the status can be included in the notification. For example a notification message can be that the download is successful. In addition in many circumstances a download may only be usable such as a movie file protected by certain digital rights management systems when the download is complete. Therefore a notification can first include a message that the entire file is required before use and then a download complete notification can be sent to the user upon complete file download. In another example if a file can be viewable when a certain amount of the file has been buffered a first notification message can alert the user that when a certain buffer is attained the file is usable. Then when that buffer is reached the user can further be notified that use e.g. viewing is now possible. In still other examples if a download is unsuccessful a user can be notified. Specific notification messages can be included such as the reason including a lost connection with the content services provider etc. The aforementioned download events and other notification information such as but not limited to file size transfer rate transfer time etc. are contemplated in various embodiments and implementations known in the art.

Therefore in exemplary embodiments detection can be accomplished in many locations via systems . In an exemplary embodiment a user can configure notification application at the particular location for a given transaction or for a series of related transactions. For example a user can configure his own IPTV for download notification preferences for a given movie download from a particular provider. Similarly the user can configure the download notification preferences for that particular provider for every movie that is downloaded presently and in the future. In another exemplary embodiment notification server can be exploited and pre populated with download notification preferences based on service plans etc. Notification server therefore maintains notification destinations and preferences for each associated user. Notification server may be used to indicate multiple events on a variety of devices such as presentation device based on the user s selected preferences time of day nature of notification etc. For example notification server may be used to light a light on a landline telephone which is this case is presentation device and send an email to a pager which in this case is an additional presentation device to indicate a new voice mail. In another example notification server might activate a desktop client and place a phone call to indicate that a new urgent email message has arrived. In still another example notification server may send a short message service SMS message to a cell phone to indicate a download status.

It is appreciated that the choice of the presentation device for notification can be an on going process in which the user can periodically change the presentation device. It is also appreciated that the selected presentation device may not be the same device onto which the desired download is accomplished. For example a user may use a cell phone as a remote control for his TV. Therefore the cell phone is device and the TV is presentation device . As such the user may order a movie via either device or presentation device and in turn select either device or presentation device as the notification presentation device. Similarly the user may be ordering a download for a child and does not have a concern about being notified about such a download. Therefore a user can order a download via device for download onto presentation device in which case is a TV or IPTV for example. Then the user can specify yet a third device as the notification presentation device. Using the same example a user can further specify his device as a notification device if the child is ordering a download via a third device. In this way a user can specify that device be a presentation device for a download. In a specific example a user can specify to be notified when particular content is downloaded such as an R rated movie a song with explicit lyrics or an entertainment software rating board ESRB M rated game etc. Therefore it is appreciated that download notifications can take several forms and be spread out over several different devices.

Referring still to at step if the download is complete then the notification application alerts the user via the presentation device. As discussed earlier with respect to the presentation device was previously selected at steps . In general the user receives the downloaded content and at approximately the same time receives the notification at step . In another implementation not shown in the figure the download at step could be completed following a response from the user that he desires to complete the download after being previously notified of the download progress.

Referring again to it is therefore appreciated that content services provider includes a media server capable of providing files and applications to a specified device such as presentation device or device or other contemplated device. For example movie services can be provided to a TV via set top box of all subscribers to the content services. Content services provider network and presentation device are all capable of running notification application and therefore being the driving device for notification application . In general the methods monitor the user s activity to make on going decisions whether or not downloads and related notifications are requested.

As described above the exemplary embodiments can be in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

