---

title: System and method for distributing messages to particular mobile devices
abstract: A message distribution system comprising an analytics system to receive an inquiry with qualifiers to generate an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated the with qualifiers, wherein the qualifiers comprise at least one characteristic associated with at least one of a mobile device, a mobile device user, or a mobile device owner, generating an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers at a future time which may receive messages, and transmit the estimate of the number of mobile devices to a common campaign system. The system comprises a common campaign system to provide the qualifiers for selection, transmit the inquiry with the qualifiers to at least the analytics system to receive an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers, and receive the estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374335&OS=09374335&RS=09374335
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09374335
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130911
---
Data may be collected about consumers to provide targeted information and or message s to the consumers based on the collected data. A marketer may select parameters which parse people into categories or characteristics so that when marketing a particular product and or service consumers most likely to show interest in the product and or service may be exclusively reached. The targeted information and or message s may be transmitted to the parsed consumers through one or more channels.

A message distribution system for generating an abstract campaign to distribute messages to qualified mobile devices is disclosed. The system comprises a processor. The system also comprises one or more storage devices coupled to the processor. The system further comprises an analytics system stored in at least one of the storage devices and configured to receive an inquiry with one or more qualifiers to generate an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated the with one or more qualifiers wherein the one or more qualifiers comprises at least one characteristic associated with at least one of a mobile device a mobile device user or a mobile device owner generating an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the one or more qualifiers at a future time which may receive one or more messages and transmit the estimate of the number of mobile devices to a common campaign system. The system further comprises a common campaign system stored in at least one of the storage devices and configured to provide the one or more qualifiers for selection transmit the inquiry with the one or more qualifiers to at least the analytics system to receive an estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the one or more qualifiers receive the estimate of the number of mobile devices associated with the one or more qualifiers and display the received estimate on a display.

A message distribution system for generating an abstract campaign to distribute messages to qualified mobile devices is disclosed. The system comprises a processor. The system also comprises one or more storage devices coupled to the processor. The system further comprises an analytics system stored in at least one of the storage devices and configured to identify one or more mobile devices associated with one or more qualifiers wherein the one or more qualifiers comprises at least one characteristic associated with at least one of a mobile device a mobile device user or a mobile device owner generate a list of one or more mobile devices based on the association with the one or more qualifiers and transmit the list of one or more mobile device to a common campaign system. The system further comprises a common campaign system stored in at least one of the storage devices and configured to transmit the one or more qualifiers to at least the analytics system to identify the one or more mobile devices associated with the one or more qualifiers receive the list of one or more mobile devices associated with one or more qualifiers send a message to the one or more mobile devices on the list of one or more mobile devices associated with one or more qualifiers and wherein the common campaign system comprises a contract policy enforcement component configured to implement one or more rules for sending messages to the one or more mobile devices on the list of one or more mobile devices associated with the one or more qualifiers.

A method of identifying a set of one or more mobile devices for targeted messaging is disclosed. The method comprises identifying by a system one or more mobile devices associated with one or more qualifiers wherein the one or more qualifiers comprises at least one characteristic associated with at least one of a mobile device a mobile device user or a mobile device owner. The method further comprises associating by the system the one or more mobile devices with one or more adapters wherein the one or more adapters provide a channel for the one or more mobile devices to receive one or more messages. The method also comprises identifying by the system one or more rules associated with at least the one or more adapters. The method comprises transmitting by the system one or more messages through the one or more adapters to the one or more mobile devices based on at least the one or more rules.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

A system for initiating a marketing campaign utilizes a core system comprising a common campaign system and an analytics system. A marketer for example representing a small privately owned department store may wish to market a new clothing line in the store to individuals who may be more likely than other individuals to purchase an item from the new clothing line. Individuals with mobile device s may be constantly interacting with their mobile device s in ways that may reflect the behavior patterns interests characteristics and or the like of the individual s . The interactions may be recorded transmitted and stored in a data store. The marketer may select one or more qualifier s through the common campaign system to target owners and or users of mobile device s with one or more messages associated with the selected qualifier s . A qualifier may comprise either actual or inferred information related to age gender race socio economic status food preference product and or service purchase history hobbies geographic location behavior patterns mobile service providers type of mobile device s used and or the like.

Qualifier s may also comprise one criterion or multiple criteria and or one or more characteristics related the mobile device a user of the mobile device and or an owner of the mobile device. The analytics system may identify one or more mobile device s associated with the selected one or more qualifier s based on the stored interactions. The system utilizes data gathered through interactions between a mobile device and an owner and or user of the mobile device so that a marketer may receive an estimate of the amount of mobile device s which may be reached with one or more message s at a future time using the one or more qualifier s . This system may allow a marketer to quickly determine how large the market is for a product and or service that the marketer is trying to market based on one or more qualifiers. Thus the marketer may adjust the qualifiers to determine if adding and or removing one or more qualifiers would provide an estimate of a number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers which would be more suited for the marketer s products and or services.

For example the system may be identify one or more mobile devices based on one or more qualifiers and transmit a message to each of the mobile device s within about 3 minutes after identifying the one or more mobile devices. In an embodiment at a future time may comprise a reasonable amount of time between identifying one or more mobile device s associated with one or more qualifiers and transmitting a message to a reasonable number of the identified mobile devices to entice the owner s and or users of the mobile devices to act based on the transmitted message. For example the system may provide an estimate of the number of mobile device s that are associated with one or more qualifiers. The system may provide a cost estimate to a marketer based on the estimate of the number of mobile device s that are associated with one or more qualifiers. The system may send messages to the mobile device at a future time so that a reasonable number of owners and or users of the mobile devices may still be associated with the one or more qualifiers at a convenient location to access the department store.

The system may also limit the number of message s which may be transmitted to one or more mobile device s owners of mobile device s and or users of a mobile device s who are associated with the one or more selected qualifier s . For example the system may comprise a list of rules associated with one or more adapters to mobile device interfaces such as Google Cloud Apple Push Urban Airship Spotlight offer advert and or the like. The rules may prohibit more than one message from being transmitted through an adapter of a particular mobile device interface more than about once per a predetermined period of time. Thus when a marketer transmits one or more message s to one or more mobile device s through one or more adapters of one or more mobile device interfaces if another message has been previously sent before the predetermined time has expired the message may have to be held from transmission until the predetermined time has expired. Thus mobile device owners and or users may be protected from being bombarded with messages and or advertisements from marketers. For some more details on analytics and common campaign services see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 024 627 filed on Sep. 11 2013 entitled System and Method for Identifying a Mobile Device with Near Real Time Visualization to Action by Robert H. Burcham et al. which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Turning now to a communication system is described. The system comprises one or more of mobile device s a base transceiver station BTS a network and a core system . The mobile device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or other communication enabled portable electronic device. In an embodiment the mobile device may be implemented as a handset. Details of handsets are discussed further hereinafter. The base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the mobile device and couples the mobile device to the network . In an embodiment the base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the mobile device according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another wireless protocol. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated in it is understood that the communication system may comprise any number of base transceiver stations and any number of mobile devices . The network may be a public communication network a private communication network or a combination thereof.

The mobile device s may comprise a radio transceiver a first user interface and a memory . Alternatively the mobile device may comprise two or more radio transceivers and or two or more memories . The memory may store at least one data source such as a first data source and or a second data source . In an embodiment the memory of the mobile device may store two or more data sources. A data source may comprise an electronic wallet a mobile device location identifier one or more applications on a mobile device a data store storing profile information about the mobile device e.g. owner s and or user s of a mobile device a Zone Media Service ZMS application and or the like.

A data source may record information related to one or more events between a mobile device user and a mobile device and convert the recorded information into raw data. For example a data source associated with determining a location of the mobile device may record information related to an event which may comprise that a mobile device was at a selected location at a selected time of day that a particular transaction was made using an electronic wallet on the mobile device to purchase a particular product and or to purchase at a particular store a series of repetitive mobile device movements how and or when a mobile device user prefers to be contacted or reached for messages the use of one or more features on the mobile device the frequency and or subject of customer service calls any combination thereof and or the like.

In an embodiment as will be discussed further herein the data source s may be configured to transmit raw data as well as metadata based on the recorded information to an analytics system . In an embodiment while illustrates that data source s and are located in the memory of the mobile device the data source s and may be located remotely from the mobile device e.g. a remote server but may receive one or more signals from a particular mobile device so that the data source s located at the remote location may transmit raw data and metadata based on the recorded information to the analytics system .

The core system which may comprise the data visualization system the common campaign system and the analytics system may be configured to categorize one or more mobile devices into one or more selected categories based on at least recorded information provided by one or more data source s . The core system may also be configured to gather an identification associated with the one or more mobile device s based on the one or more selected categories and allow a marketer to transmit one or more message s to the one or more mobile device s related to the one or more categories.

For example core system may receive recorded information from two mobile devices indicating that both mobile devices used an electronic wallet at ABC Department Store to purchase Acme walking shoes. One or more data source s on each mobile device may store a record of one or more aspects of the purchase of the Acme walking shoes using the electronic wallet at ABC Department Store. Each record may be transmitted to the core system so that each mobile device and thus the mobile device user may be categorized as having used the electronic wallet having purchased an item at ABC Department Store having purchased Acme walking shoes any combination thereof and or the like.

The core system may then gather identifications for both mobile devices when a marketer looks for a list of mobile devices and thus mobile device users who have purchased an item at ABC Department Store. The core system may then provide the marketer with the ability to transmit a message to both mobile devices . The message may be related to ABC Department Store the message may be related to another department store like ABC Department Store the message may be based on an inference generated using heuristics of people who purchase at ABC Department Store any combination thereof and or the like. In an embodiment the message may comprise a link to another message such that when the user of mobile device selects the link the selection of the link becomes another event stored in a data source.

Generally the core system may comprise a common data visualization system campaign system and an analytics system . The common campaign system may be configured to transmit one or more messages to one or more mobile devices . For example a marketer may wish to market a new line of neckties for XYZ Department Store. Through the common campaign system the marketer may select one or more qualifiers which the marketer believes may provide one or more categories of mobile device users who are likely to purchase neckties. Qualifiers may comprise either actual or inferred information related to age gender race socio economic status food preference product and or service purchase history hobbies geographic location behavior patterns mobile service providers type of mobile device s used and or the like.

After selecting one or more qualifier s the common campaign system may transmit a signal to the analytics system to obtain an address to each mobile device s associated with potential customers who are likely to purchase neckties. The marketer may provide one or more message s to the common campaign system for example advertising the new line of neckties. The common campaign system may then transmit the message s to the mobile device s identified by the analytics system . The message s may be pushed to the mobile device s and or the message s may be sent to a queue while the mobile device s are notified of the message s which are to be pulled by the mobile device s . In an embodiment while one or more addresses to the mobile device s may be provided to the common campaign system the marketer may not have access to the addresses and thus may be unable to identify the individuals associated with the mobile device s receiving message s . Thus when transmitting one or more message s the common campaign system may only identify how many mobile device s are were transmitted message s .

As described in the previous example the common campaign system may be configured to provide one or more qualifiers to a marketer so that the marketer may select one or more qualifiers to transmit one or more message s to mobile device s associated with the selected qualifier s . As previously discussed qualifiers may comprise either actual or inferred information related to age gender race socio economic status food preference product and or service purchase history hobbies geographic location behavior patterns mobile service providers type of mobile device s used and or the like.

For example a marketer for ABC Department Store may want to transmit advertisements to likely customers through the likely customers mobile device s for a new women s purse. The common campaign system may provide a plurality of qualifier s to the ABC Department Store marketer so that the marketer may choose one or more qualifiers of the plurality of qualifier s to transmit one or more message s to owners and or users of mobile devices associated with those qualifiers . For example the ABC Department Store marketer may select a women qualifier i.e. mobile devices owned and or used by females as well as the 25 65 year old demographic qualifier i.e. mobile devices owned and or used by people between the ages of 25 and 65 of the plurality of qualifiers presented by the common campaign system .

The common campaign system may transmit a signal to the analytics system requesting the addresses e.g. a phone number an internet protocol address and or one or more other identifying references of mobile device owners and or users associated with either and or both those two qualifiers selected by the marketer. In an embodiment the common campaign system may store the qualifier s in a common campaign gateway to be discussed further herein and or the common campaign system may obtain the qualifier s from the analytics system .

The common campaign system may comprise a common campaign gateway a disposition channel adapter interface and one or more adapters and or . The common campaign gateway may be configured to provide a marketer with qualifier s so that a marketer may initiate one or more campaign s to transmit messages to one or more mobile device owners and or users through their mobile device s e.g. mobile device owners and or users who are likely to be interested in what the marketer is marketing . The common campaign gateway may provide qualifier s to marketer s through a campaign interface . The marketer may select one or more qualifier s and initiate one or more campaign s through the common campaign gateway .

For example after selecting the women qualifier and the 25 65 year old demographic qualifier the common campaign gateway may transmit a message to the analytics system requesting an address for each mobile device associated with those qualifier s . Once the analytics system transmits the mobile device addresses to the common campaign gateway the ABC Department Store marketer may provide an advertisement and or message to the common campaign gateway through the campaign interface and instruct the common campaign gateway to initiate a campaign .

Campaign s may generally comprise transmitting one or more message s to one or more mobile device s where the selection of the mobile devices are based on the selection of the one or more qualifier s . Based on the parameters specified through selecting the qualifier s and implemented by the marketer to initiate a campaign the common campaign gateway may transmit one or more message s to one or more mobile device s related to the qualifier s with a specified frequency for a specified number of message s for a specified period of time and or to a percentage of all the mobile devices identified by the analytics system which are related to the qualifiers .

In addition to initiating a campaign the common campaign gateway may be configured to provide campaign information to a marketer before during and or after a campaign is launched. In an embodiment the common campaign gateway may be configured to communicate with the analytics system to obtain an estimate for the marketer about how many owners and or users of mobile device s may be associated with one or more selected qualifiers before a campaign in initiated.

For example the analytics system may be continuously receiving data from mobile device s which may be categorized based on the raw data and or heuristics used to interpret the raw data as will be discussed further herein. A marketer for ABC Department Store may chose the women qualifier and the 25 65 year old demographic qualifier through the campaign interface to target the largest number of mobile device owners and or users most likely to buy the new line of women s purses. The marketer may initiate an inquiry using the selected qualifiers to determine the quantity of mobile device owners and or users who may be associated with the selected qualifiers. The common campaign gateway may communicate with the analytics system to obtain an estimate identifying about how many mobile device owners and or users are associated with either one of the selected qualifiers and or both selected qualifiers.

As will be discussed further herein the analytics system may provide an estimate to the common campaign gateway and thus the marketer regarding how many mobile device owners and or users are associated with the selected qualifier s . Thus even though the marketer may only have an estimate indicating how many mobile device owners and or users are identified the estimate compared with one or more different estimates using a different combination of one or more qualifier s may provide a marketer with a reasonable indication of which qualifiers identify the most mobile device owners and or users likely to purchase the new line of purses.

In an embodiment the estimate may comprise a minimum and or maximum quantity of mobile device owners and or users e.g. a range who are associated with one or more selected qualifiers over a period of time an average quantity of mobile device owners and or users e.g. a mean who are associated with one or more selected qualifiers over a period of time the most frequent quantity of mobile device owners and or users e.g. a mode who are associated with one or more selected qualifiers over a period of time the quantity of mobile device owners and or users who are in the middle of a list of recorded quantities of mobile device owners and or users e.g. a median number associated with one more qualifiers over a period of time the exact quantity of mobile device owners and or users identified at the time of the inquiry which may be different when the actual campaign is launched a combination thereof and or the like.

For example the marketer may make an inquiry to find out about how many mobile device owners and or users may be associated with the women qualifier and the 25 65 year old demographic qualifier. After communicating with the analytics system the common campaign gateway may inform the marketer that an average of 2500 mobile device owners and or users over the past 2 weeks may be associated with the selected qualifiers. While the marketer may feel that this quantity is favorable the cost of sending one or more messages to that many mobile devices may be too high. Thus the marketer may make another inquiry adding the qualifier of mobile device owners and or users within a two mile radius of ABC Department Store. After communicating again with the analytics system the common campaign gateway may inform the marketer that an average of 500 mobile device owners and or users over the past 2 weeks may be associated with the selected qualifiers . The marketer may feel that this quantity is too low and that while ABC Department Store may be able to afford to send one or more messages to about 500 mobile device owners and or users ABC Department Store desires to target more potential customers.

Thus once again the marketer may select a separate set of qualifiers comprising married men and 30 55 year old demographic and make an inquiry to find out how may mobile device owners and or users may be associated with married men and 30 55 year old demographic qualifiers . Once again after communicating with the analytics system the common campaign gateway may inform the marketer that an average of 500 mobile device owners and or users over the past 2 weeks may be associated with the new selected qualifiers. The marketer may believe that about 1000 mobile device owners and or users may be an adequate quantity of targeted likely customers while staying with ABC Department Store s budget. Thus based on those sets of qualifiers the marketer may initiate a campaign to send message concerning the new line of women s purses.

In an embodiment after the marketer makes an inquiry to obtain an estimate about how many mobile device s may have one or more message s transmitted to them the campaign interface may provide an estimate about how much initiating a campaign with the selected qualifier s may cost. In an embodiment the cost may vary based on the number of total message s sent the number of rounds of messages sent the duration of the campaign the frequencies of messages sent and or the like.

In an embodiment the common campaign gateway may be configured to provide campaign information to a marketer during and or after a campaign is launched. For example the analytics system may be continuously receiving data from mobile device s which may be categorized based on the raw data and or heuristics used to interpret the raw data as will be discussed further herein. A marketer for ABC Department Store may chose the women qualifier and the 25 65 year old demographic qualifier through the campaign interface to target the largest amount of mobile device owners and or users most likely to buy the new line of women s purses. The marketer may have also initiated a campaign using the selected qualifiers to provide mobile device owners and or users who may be associated with the selected qualifiers one or more messages. In an embodiment the campaign may comprise one or more rounds of messages transmitted to the mobile device owners and or users associated with the selected qualifiers.

For example the marketer for ABC Department Store may have initiated a campaign comprising at least 3 rounds of messages to be transmitted to mobile device owners and or users associated with the selected qualifier s of women and a 25 65 year old demographic. The analytics system may have identified 1042 mobile devices associated with women and with 25 65 year old demographic for the first round of messages. Subsequently ABC Department Store may have sold 100 purses from the new line of purses. Additionally the analytics system may have received a record identifying that 47 of the 1042 mobile devices purchased one or more purses of the new line of purses from the ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet.

The analytics system may have also received a record identifying that 15 of the 1042 mobile devices purchased a different purse at ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet while 17 of the 1042 mobile devices purchased a purse at a store other than ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet. The analytics system may also receive a record that 36 married men between the ages of 30 and 55 purchased one or more purses from the new line of purses at ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet. The records may be transmitted to the common campaign system and displayed through the campaign interface for example on a display so that the marketer may see the results from the first round of messages.

The common campaign gateway may be configured to allow a marketer to modify a campaign during the campaign as well as add new qualifier s to the campaign during the campaign and or remove qualifier s from the campaign during the campaign in response to information provided to the marketer through the campaign gateway associated with for example which how many and or how mobile device owners and or users responded to one or more of the messages. For example the marketer may receive information related to the first round of messages and identify that out of the 100 purses sold after transmitting the first round of messages that 36 married men between the ages of 30 and 55 purchased one or more purses from the new line of purses at ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet.

Furthermore the marketer may also determine that the 47 mobile devices that purchased one or more purses of the new line of purses from the ABC Department Store through an electronic wallet is a sufficient amount of mobile device owners and or users associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic with 1042 total messages sent. Thus the marketer may wish to modify the campaign. The marketer may wish to reduce the number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic which receive messages by 50 during the second round. The marketer may also wish to send messages to mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of married men and the 30 55 age demographic. The marketer may inquire about how many mobile devices are associated with those qualifiers similarly to the inquiries discussed above. For example the campaign interface may indicate approximately 1000 mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of married men and the 30 55 age demographic. The campaign interface may display these results to a marketer for example using a display. The marketer may determine that only about 50 of the approximately 1000 is within the ABC Department Store budget.

Thus the marketer may launch the second round of messages of the campaign to about half as many mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic compared to the first round of messages and to about half of the total number of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of married men and the 30 55 age demographic. For example during the second round of the campaign the common campaign system may transmit messages to 489 mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic and 525 mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of married men and the 30 55 age demographic. 

In an embodiment the common campaign system may be configured to send different messages to different mobile devices based on the associated qualifiers . For example the marketer may create a campaign targeted to mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic and mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of married men and the 30 55 age demographic. The marketer may configure the common campaign gateway through the campaign interface to transmit messages which illustrate and or describe the elegance and utility of the new line of purses to mobile devices associated with the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic. The marketer may also configure the common campaign gateway through the campaign interface to transmit messages which illustrate and or describer how happy their wives will be to have one of the purses of this new line. In an embodiment the separate messages may be transmitted in different campaigns. Furthermore if a campaign comprises more than one round of messages to mobile devices messages may be changed and or updated between each round.

In an embodiment the common campaign system may also comprise a disposition channel adapter interface coupling the common campaign gateway to one or more adapters and or . The disposition channel adapter interface may be configured to link the common campaign gateway with one or more adapters and or so that the common campaign gateway may transmit one or more messages to mobile devices associated with adapters and or . Adapters and or may be configured to adapt interfaces such as Google Cloud Apple Push Urban Airship Spotlight offer advert and or the like with the disposition channel adapter interface so that one or more messages may be transmitted by the common campaign gateway to mobile devices using one or more of the interfaces.

For example a marketer for ABC Department Store may have created a campaign using the qualifiers of women and the 25 65 year old demographic. After attaching one or more messages to the campaign and initiating the campaign the common campaign gateway may transmit the one or more messages through the disposition channel adapter interface and through the adapter and or which are linked to mobile device s associated with the qualifiers . For example the message s may be transmitted to through the Google Cloud adapter to a plurality of mobile device s utilizing the Google Cloud. Additional message s may be transmitted through the spotlight offer adapter to a plurality of mobile device s utilizing the spotlight offer features. In an embodiment a mobile device may be utilizing two or more interfaces such that message s may transmitted through two or more adapters and or to reach the same mobile device . As will be discussed further herein mobile device owners and or users may indicate which interface s on their mobile device s may receive message s . In an embodiment one interface may comprise a zone core application stored on a mobile device .

Zone core applications may comprise a collection of services e.g. entertainment services to view springtv bill pay device self diagnostics information notifications news and promotions place your ad intercepting customer care calls to help diagnose problem before actually connecting to customer care representatives and or the like providing raw data e.g. information data to applications on a mobile device . The zone core may be used as an interface to provide one or more message s to a mobile device utilizing the zone core. Furthermore in an embodiment zone media service ZMS applications associated with the zone core may transmit raw data to the data store based on interactions between the zone core and the owner and or user of the mobile device .

The common campaign system may also comprise a contract policy enforcement component . The contract policy enforcement component may comprise a plurality of rules for contacting mobile device s . A particular mobile device and or an interface such as Google Cloud may only permit one or more messages sent per hour one or more messages per day one or more messages every other day one or more messages per week one or more message per month one or more messages and or a maximum number of message from a particular marketer within a time frame one or more messages and or a maximum number of message associated with a particular campaign within a time frame one or more messages and or a maximum number of message from a particular retailer within a time frame and or the like.

For example a marketer for ABC Department store may wish to send a first message to a plurality of mobile device s advertising a new line of neckties. Using the disposition channel adapter interface the marketer may direct the common campaign system to send the first message through a plurality of adapters such as adapters through to transmit messages to one or more mobile device s . The contract policy enforcement component may enforce a contract rule for example that no more than one message may be transmitted through adapter in a 24 hour period while as many messages as possible may be transmitted through adapter e.g. without a restriction limit . After initiating a campaign the first message may be transmitted through adapters channels associated with adapters and or . If the first message is transmitted through the adapter channels without error then the return message associated with the first message may be stored in a success message queue associated with each adapter channel. It should be noted that for a message to be allocated to a success queue all that may be needed is that a message may be transmitted successfully through an adapter channel. It may not be necessary that a mobile device and or an owner and or a user of a mobile device actually receive the message.

Furthermore a second marketer for XYZ Department store may wish to send a second message to a plurality of mobile device s advertising a new line of men s coats. Using the disposition channel adapter interface the second marketer may direct the common campaign system to send a second message through a plurality of adapters such as adapters through to transmit the second message to one or more mobile device s . The contract policy enforcement component may again enforce a contract rule that no more than one message may be transmitted through adapter per day while as many messages as possible may be transmitted through adapter e.g. without a restriction limit .

The contract policy enforcement component may determine that the return message associated with the first message may be sitting in a success queue associated with the adapter as well as a success queue associated with the adapter . The contract policy enforcement component may then direct the second message transmitting through the first adapter to a wait queue associated with the first adapter because the return message associated with the first message is sitting in the success queue associated with the first adapter . The second message may wait in the wait queue until the first message has been in the success queue for 24 hours. Once the first queue has been in the success queue for 24 hours the second message may be successfully transmitted through the adapter channel of the first adapter . In an embodiment the first message may also be disposed of from the success queue after 24 hours. Additionally because there are no restrictions on the adapter and the adapter channel associated with adapter the second message does not have to wait in a wait queue and may be transmitted when the campaign of the second marketer has been initiated and the second message is sent.

In an embodiment the contract policy enforcement component may implement contract policy enforcement rules by only allowing one message at a time to be transmitted through a channel associated with an adapter such as adapters through . This may allow for enforcement of contract policy rules to be maintained even though the contract policy enforcement component does not detect the presence of a returned success message associated with a sent message in a success queue. For example the first marketer may have sent a message less than two minutes before the second marketer sent the second message. Each message may be directed so that both the first message and the second message are sent through the first adapter comprising the rule that mobile device s utilizing the first adapter may only receive one message every 24 hours. At the time the second marketer sent the second message a success message for example indicating that the first message was sent to the success queue had not been received.

Even though the contract policy enforcement component does not detect the presence of a success message associated with the first message the contract policy enforcement component may block the second message from transmission from the common campaign system until a success message indicating that the first message was disposed through the adapter channel associated with the first adapter without error is detected. In order to maintain the contract policy rules associated with the first adapter upon detecting a success message associated with the first message in the success queue the contract policy enforcement component may transmit the second message into a wait queue until the 24 hour period expires.

In an embodiment the contract policy enforcement component may never detect that the first message was sent to the success queue. For example the first message may not have successfully been transmitted through the channel associated with the first adapter . The first message may have been transmitted to a failed error queue indicating that the first message had not been successfully transmitted through the channel associated with the first adapter . Thus upon detecting that the first message had not been successfully transmitted through the channel associated with the first adapter the contract policy enforcement component may operate as if no first message had been sent and thus send the next message and or the next highest priority message e.g. the first message a second time or the second message through the channel associated with the first adapter within the 24 hour period without violating contract policy rules associated with the first adapter . In an embodiment a predetermined amount of time for example beginning from the time the first message was transmitted without detecting that the first message was successfully transmitted through the channel associated with the first adapter may trigger the contract policy enforcement component to send another message through the channel associated with the first adapter within the 24 hour period without violating contract policy rules associated with the first adapter

In an embodiment the second message may comprise an expiration of an hour after transmission. Thus when the contract policy enforcement component detects that a first message is in the success queue associated with the first adapter the contract policy enforcement component may send the second message to a wait queue so that the contract policy enforcement component does not violate a rule associated with the first adapter by sending two messages in which both messages end up in the success queue associated with the first adapter within the same 24 hours. However because the second message comprises an hour expiration the second message may not ever reach the success queue. Because the wait time in the wait queue exceeds an hour the contract policy enforcement component may direct the second message to a dead queue after the hour expires. In an embodiment the expiration of a campaign may also direct any messages in the wait queue to the dead queue.

In an embodiment the contract policy enforcement component may be configured to provide an estimate about how often one or more mobile device s of the estimated number of mobile device s generated based on an inquiry may receive one or more messages. For example upon sending an inquiry from the common campaign system to the analytics system the contract policy enforcement component may transmit the rules associated with each adapter through and the channels associated with each adapter channel along with the inquiry. The analytics system may determine about how many of the estimated number of mobile device s may be reached as well as about how many of each type of adapter through may be used to send a message to each of the mobile device s of the estimated number of mobile device s . Thus based on the estimated number of mobile device s as well as the different contract policy rules provided by the contract policy enforcement component a rough estimate about how many mobile device s will be reached may be provided. In an embodiment the mobile device s may be reached no later than a predetermined future time. In an embodiment a future time may comprise at most about one minute at most about 3 minutes at most about 5 minutes at most about 7 minutes at most about 10 minutes at most about 12 minutes at most about 15 minutes at most about 17 minutes at most about 20 minutes at most about 30 minutes at most about 40 minutes at most about 50 minutes at most about one hour at most about three hours at most about five hours at most about 10 hours at most about 12 hours at most about 24 hours at most about 2 days at most about 4 days at most about 7 days at most about 14 days at most about 21 days at most about one month and or the like.

As previously discussed the core system may comprise a common data visualization system campaign system and an analytics system . The analytics system may be configured to collect raw data from mobile device s and or data sources such as data sources and associated with mobile device s and associate the mobile device s and thus the raw data with unique identifier s . In an embodiment the analytics system may receive raw data with metadata attached to the raw data from a mobile device . The metadata may be attached to the raw data to describe and or identify the type of raw data being sourced in the analytics system . The raw data may be associated with an address and or an identification so that the analytics system may associate individual mobile device s and or groups of mobile device s with one or more particular units of raw data. Raw data may comprise customer preference s e.g. customer information profile s zone media service events events associated with zone core stored on a mobile device mobile device owner and or user demographics a mobile device s current and or past locations one or more events associated with an electronic wallet a time component any combination thereof and or the like.

For example a mobile device owner may purchase a pair of women s shoes at ABC Department Store using an electronic wallet embedded in the memory of an owner s mobile device . The mobile device may transmit the raw data and metadata to the analytics system . The metadata may inform the analytics system that raw data identifies a use of the electronic wallet a purchase of women s shoes a purchase at ABC Department Store a cost associated with the purchased women s shoes and or a time component. As will be discussed further herein the analytics system may sort and or categorize an identifier associated with a mobile device based on the raw data.

The analytics system may be configured to communicate with the common campaign system . In an embodiment the common campaign system may transmit qualifier s to the analytics system to obtain a count of mobile device s associated with the qualifier s and or a list of mobile device s associated with the qualifier s to transmit one or more message s to the mobile device s . For example a marketer for ABC Department Store may be interacting with the campaign interface of the common campaign gateway and inquire into about how many mobile device s may be associated with the qualifier s of women and the 25 65 year old demographic. The analytics system may be continuously receiving new raw data so that the number of mobile device s associated with those qualifiers may be constantly changing. Thus the analytics system may provide a rough estimate to the common campaign system indicating about how many mobile devices may be associated with the provided qualifiers .

Additionally the marketer for ABC Department Store may determine that the rough estimate from the analytics system indicating a particular estimate about the number of mobile device s which may be associated with the qualifier s of women and the 25 65 year old demographic is adequate. The marketer may initiate a campaign based on the qualifiers and transmit the campaign from the common campaign system to the analytics system . The analytics system may then provide a list of mobile devices associated with the qualifiers women and the 25 65 year old demographic to the common campaign system . The marketer may provide one or more messages which may be transmitted to each of the mobile device s on the list. In an embodiment while the marketer may be informed about the exact number of mobile devices which may have had message s transmitted to the mobile device s the analytics system may not provide the information identifying the owner s and or user s of each of the mobile device s to the common campaign system and or the marketer.

The analytics system may generally comprise a data store an online analytics processor layer a qualifier definition data store and an analytics gateway . The data store may be configured to receive the raw data and the metadata from the data source s and store the raw data with the metadata. The data store may associate each item of raw data with a mobile device identifier of a particular mobile device and or a set of mobile devices . The data store may comprise a two tier design pattern comprising an organizer layer first tier and a compute layer second tier . The organizer layer may receive raw data associated with a mobile device . The organizer layer may break up the raw data and store the broken data into a plurality of nodes in parallel with each other on the compute layer.

For example a mobile device owner may have purchased women s shoes for 100 on sale i.e. non sale price was 120 at ABC Department Store in Metro City on a Thursday afternoon using a data source such as an electronic wallet embedded in the mobile device . The electronic wallet may transmit raw data identifying that an owner and or user of a mobile device used an electronic wallet purchased women s shoes paid 100 for the shoes bought the shoes on sale shopped at ABC Department Store shopped in Metro City and was shopping on a Thursday afternoon. Metadata may be associated with each piece of raw data for reasons to be discussed further herein. The organizer layer may receive each piece of raw data and associate it with a particular mobile device . The organizer layer may store each piece of raw data on a different node of the compute layer and record the node where each piece of raw data was stored.

Thus when a campaign is initiated and qualifier s are transmitted to the analytics system the organizer layer of the data store may identify which nodes of the compute layer are storing raw data associated with one or more of the qualifier s and distribute one or more scripts to one or more nodes. The nodes may then take the results of the one or more scripts and provide the raw data associated with the qualifier s of the campaign to the organizer layer to assemble the raw data together. In an embodiment this system may be a map reduce system. In an embodiment the data store may comprise a Hadoop. One of ordinary skill in the art may identify one or more systems which may be implemented to store and retrieve data in a data store.

It should be understood that the data store may be continuously receiving raw data from one or more mobile device s and or one or more data sources such as data sources and . Thus the number of mobile device s which may be associated with one or more qualifier s may be constantly changing. It follows that because the number of mobile device s which may be associated with one or more qualifier s may be constantly changing when a marketer makes an inquiry about the number of mobile device s which may be associated with one or more particular qualifier s the number of mobile device provided as a result of the inquiry may be different from the actual number of mobile devices which may be selected for message transmission by the common campaign system . Thus as previously mentioned the analytics system may provide an estimate of the number of mobile device s which may be provided when a campaign is initiated using the same qualifier s used during the inquiry.

In an embodiment data sources such as spotlight may also provide raw data and metadata to the data store . Spotlight is an application which identifies when a mobile device owner and or user indicates whether they like or dislike a message transmitted for example from the common campaign system . Thus if a first round of message s is sent to a mobile device and the owner and or user of the mobile device indicates that they don t like or aren t interested in the subject matter of the first message that indication may be sent to the data store so that when a list is generated for a second round of message s that particular mobile device may not be added to the list of mobile device s which are to receive the second round of message s .

The analytics system may also comprise an online analytics processor layer . The online analytics processor layer may be configured to generate types of qualifier s to be stored in the qualifier definition data store and provided to the common campaign gateway based on examining the raw data in the data store using one or more heuristics. Heuristics may comprise experience based techniques strategies rules of thumb educated guesses intuitive judgment common sense and or the like using readily accessible though possibly loosely applicable raw data to make inferences.

For example active agents of the online analytics processor layer may be continuously examining raw data in the data store . Metadata associated with each piece of raw data may be read by the active agents to determine what type of raw data the online analytics processor layer is receiving. The online analytics processor layer may then take the raw data and the metadata and implement one or more heuristics to associate one or more qualifier s stored in the qualifier definition data store with the raw data and metadata. For example the mobile device owner who may have purchased women s shoes for 100 on sale i.e. non sale price was 120 at ABC Department Store in Metro City on a Thursday afternoon using a data source such as an electronic wallet embedded in the mobile device may have the raw data and metadata associated with purchasing event store in the data store . The online analytics processor layer may identify this raw data and metadata stored in the data store and implement one or more heuristics to categorize the owner and or user of the mobile device associated with raw data. For example using an extraction transformation and load process ETL Process the online analytics processor layer may identify the raw data that a purchase of women s shoes was made and that the purchase was a sale purchase. The online analytics processor layer may use heuristics which suggest that women generally purchase women s shoes and that women are generally prevalent sale shoppers. Thus using those heuristics the online analytics processor layer may associate the owner and or user of the mobile device as a woman.

In an embodiment the online analytics processor layer may generate new heuristics based on inferences. For example the online analytics processor layer may not make an inference using a heuristic that mobile device owners and or users who purchase neckties also purchase suspenders. However after examining raw data associated with multiple mobile device s the online analytics processor layer may identify that many mobile device owners and or users who purchase neckties also purchase suspenders. Thus the online analytics processor layer may add the new heuristic making an inference between purchasing neckties and suspenders.

In an embodiment the online analytics processor layer may make inferences using heuristics and associate a weight to the inference. Using the previous example the online analytics processor layer may identify the raw data that a purchase of women s shoes was made and that the purchase was a sale purchase. The online analytics processor layer may use heuristics which suggest that women generally purchase women s shoes and that women are generally prevalent sale shoppers. Thus using those heuristics the online analytics processor layer may associate the owner and or user of the mobile device as a woman. In an addition to making an inference using heuristics the online analytics processor layer may assign different weights to the inferences based on the heuristics used.

For example the online analytics processor layer may assign a higher weight e.g. a higher likelihood to the heuristic that the purchasing of women s shoes is done by a woman than the weight assigned to the heuristic that someone purchasing items on sale would be purchased by a woman. Heuristic weights may be based on a number system such as heuristics with a weight of 10 or 100 have the strongest probability and 1 or 0 with the weakest probability. Heuristic weights may be weighted by categories such as strong heuristic moderate heuristic and weak heuristic. In an embodiment a marketer may selected a weight range weight minimum weight maximum and or the like for one or more heuristics which may be used when inquiring about a campaign and or when initiating a campaign . In an embodiment the cost of the campaign may be based at least partially on the weight of the heuristics used to associate owners and or users of mobile device s with the qualifier s . Thus when making an inquiry about the number of mobile device s a campaign with a selected set of qualifier s provides the weight of the heuristics used may affect the number of identified mobile device s changing the cost of the campaign.

In an embodiment using an extraction transformation and load process the online analytics processor layer may use raw data and metadata associated with the raw data to generate one or more new qualifier s to be stored in the qualifier definition data store . For example the qualifier definition data store may not have a married men with children qualifier . The online analytics processor layer may examine raw data and metadata associated with the raw data for example that a man purchased a diamond bracelet using an electronic wallet embedded on the man s mobile device and also purchased children s soccer shoes using the same electronic wallet. The online analytics processor layer using heuristics may determine that the man is married and that the man has at least one child. The online analytics processor layer may then examine the qualifier definition data store and determine that no qualifier exists in the qualifier definition data store which identifies married men with children. Thus the online analytics processor layer may create a new qualifier of married men with children and store this qualifier in the qualifier definition data store . In an embodiment the new qualifier of married men with children may then be transmitted to the common campaign gateway for potential selection by a marketer.

The analytics system may comprise a qualifier definition data store configured to store and transmit qualifier s to the common campaign gateway . For example based on the raw data and metadata stored in the data store and examined by the online analytics processor layer the qualifier s associated with the stored raw data and metadata may be transmitted from the qualifier definition data store through the analytics gateway and to the common campaign gateway to be presented for example to a marketer to create a campaign . The qualifier definition data store may also be configured to receive and transmit qualifier s from to the online analytics processor layer .

For example as previously discussed by examining the raw data and metadata stored in the data store the online analytics processor layer may generate one or more new qualifier s to be stored in the qualifier definition data store . Additionally for example after the initiation of an inquiry and or the initiation of a campaign the qualifier definition data store may transmit one or more qualifier s to the online analytics processor layer which may identify raw data and metadata related with mobile device s and associated with the qualifier s .

The analytics system may comprise an analytics gateway . Using an analytics gateway application programming interface the analytics gateway may be configured to provide a communication link for example via the network between the analytics system and the common campaign gateway of the common campaign system . For example the analytics gateway may generate a list of mobile device s associated with qualifier s selected for a campaign and transmit the list of mobile device s to the common campaign gateway so that one or more message s may be transmitted through the disposition channel adapter interface and the adapters and or and to the mobile device s provided on the generated list. The analytics gateway may also transmit qualifier s to the common campaign gateway . For example after the online analytic processor layer identifies one or more new qualifier s the analytics gateway may transmit the new qualifier s to the common campaign gateway for potential selection by a marketer.

In an embodiment the analytics gateway may comprise a plurality of lead lists and a plurality of recommended lists . Qualifier s may be selected by a marketer for example and designated for a lead list or a recommended list . Qualifier s selected for a lead list may drive the qualifier s selected by a marketer. Conversely qualifier s selected for a recommended list may be driven by the lead list . For example a marketer may create a campaign based on two qualifiers 1 men between the ages of 25 and 64 and 2 the top 5 books purchased. The first qualifier men between the ages of 25 and 64 may be designated for a lead list while the second qualifier the top 5 books purchased may be designated for a recommended list . Thus based on the designations the top 5 books purchased only mobile device s owned and or used by men between the ages of 25 and 64 may be identified.

In an embodiment the analytics system may also comprise a profile definition data store . The profile definition data store may store profile data about owners and or users of mobile device s . Profile data may comprise age sex religion socio economic status address ethnicity country of origin and or the like. Profile data may be provided by owners and or users of mobile device s when the mobile device s were purchased and or when the owner and or user of the mobile devices signed up for mobile service. Profile data may also be provided from third parties such as mobile device application providers who received the profile data from the owners and or users of mobile device s . The profile definition data store may provide profile data to the online analytics processor layer so that the online analytics processor layer may make better inferences using heuristics.

In an embodiment the online analytics processor layer may identify profile data by examining the raw data and metadata stored in the data store . Upon identifying the profile data the online analytics processor layer may provide the profile definition data store with profile data associated with one or more identification of one or more mobile device s . In an embodiment the profile definition data store may provide profile qualifiers to the common campaign gateway so that a marketer may select profile qualifiers to create a campaign . In an embodiment one or more message s may be transmitted to one or more mobile device s . The message s may be related at least to one or more components of profile data.

In an embodiment the core system may also comprise a data visualization system . In an embodiment the data visualization system may be an application that executes on a computer. The data visualization system is configured to identify the location of one or more mobile device s in near real time based on a mobile device identification. For example the data visualization system may receive a list of mobile device s . The data visualization system may identify the current location each mobile device . The data visualization system may identify the location of each mobile device based on GPS trilateration an interaction between an electronic wallet embedded in the mobile device an identification that a mobile device is utilizing a particular wireless local area network WLAN and or the like.

In an embodiment the data visualization system may be configured to communicate with the common campaign system and or the analytics system . In an embodiment one or more qualifier s may comprise geographic parameters of mobile device s to be used with the data visualization system . For example a marketer for QRS Department Store may be creating a campaign comprising the qualifiers of men people between the ages of 25 and 65 and people within 300 yards from the location of the QRS Department Store. The marketer may desire to provide a 30 minute sale for neckties to owners and or users of mobile device s associated with those qualifiers . The marketer may make an inquiry to determine how many mobile device are associated with the qualifier s . For example the marketer may select those qualifier s in the campaign interface . The common campaign gateway may transmit those qualifier s to the analytics gateway which may obtain an estimate of the number of mobile device s associated with qualifier s of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 from data collected from the data store . Additionally the common campaign gateway may then communicate with the data visualization system by providing a list generated when the inquiry was made of mobile device s associated with qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 . The data visualization system may then identify the number of mobile device s which are 300 yards from the location of the QRS Department Store at the time the inquiry was made and transmit that number to the campaign interface to be read by the marketer. Thus a marketer may initiate multiple inquiries at different times to determine in near real time when the most owners and or users of mobile device s associated with for example the qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 are within 300 yards of the location of the QRS Department Store to determine the best time transmit messages to the greatest number of mobile device s .

In an embodiment the data visualization system may continuously track the location of mobile device s . Continuously tracking the location of mobile device s may comprise tracking about every second about every 5 seconds about every 10 seconds about every 15 seconds about every 20 seconds about every 25 seconds about every 30 seconds about every 35 seconds about every 40 seconds about every 45 seconds about every 50 seconds about every 55 seconds about every minute about every 2 minutes about every 5 minutes about every 7 minutes about every 10 minutes about every 12 minutes about every 15 minutes about every 17 minutes about every 20 minutes and or the like. For example after the common campaign gateway transmits the qualifier s to the analytics gateway the analytics gateway may obtain a list of all the mobile device s may have ever been associated with the qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 from data collected from the data store . The data collected from the data store may comprise a time component providing the time when each of the mobile device s were associated with those qualifiers. The analytics gateway may then transmit the list of mobile devices which have ever been associated with the qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 along with the time component identifying the time when the mobile device s were or the time since the mobile device s have been associated with qualifiers to the data visualization system . The data visualization system may then map which mobile device s may have ever been within 300 yards of the location of the QRS Department Store.

Once the data visualization system identifies the mobile device s which have ever been associated with the qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 and which have ever been within 300 yards of the location of the QRS Department Store the data visualization system may then reference the list to determine when each of the mobile device s were associated with the qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 and cross reference that time with the time that those mobile device s were within 300 yards of the location of the QRS Department Store.

The data visualization system may then provide an average over a period of time a maximum and or minimum number of mobile device s during a selected hour and or during a selected day of the week and or the like of the number of mobile device s associated with qualifiers of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 which may be within 300 yards of the location of the QRS Department Store.

In an embodiment the data visualization system may continuously track the locations of all mobile device s and continuously track when each mobile device is in each location. The data visualization system may then continuously transmit raw data and metadata as well as mobile device identifications for each mobile device to the data store . The data store may be continuously updated by the data visualization system with the location and time of each mobile device . Thus when the common campaign gateway transmits the qualifier s of men people between the ages of 25 and 65 and people within 300 yards from the location of the QRS Department Store the analytics gateway may provide a near real time estimate of the number of mobile device s which may be transmitted messages based on those qualifier s at any selected time and or any time at all. In an embodiment in near real time may comprise identifying that one or more mobile device s are located in a selected geographic area so that when a message is transmitted to the one or more mobile device s at least one of the mobile device s is located in the selected geographic area.

In an embodiment the data visualization system may be configured to provide a near real time map showing how close one or more mobile device s associated with selected qualifier s are to one or more selected locations. For example after the common campaign gateway transmits qualifier s of men and people between the ages of 25 and 65 to the analytics gateway the analytics gateway may obtain a list of all the mobile device s which are associated with those qualifier s from data collected from the data store . The analytics gateway may transmit the list to the data visualization system . The data visualization system may identify all the mobile device s provided in the list from the analytics gateway and transmit a map to the campaign interface of the common campaign gateway showing the locations of the all the mobile device associated with qualifiers in near real time.

A marketer through the common campaign gateway may adjust the geographic range e.g. distance from one or more locations to target a selected number of mobile device s in near real time associated with the qualifiers and transmit one or more message s to the mobile device s which are within and or outside of the range of the one or more locations. The marketer may initiate a campaign and send one or more message s to mobile device s based on the map providing the location of mobile device s associated with the qualifiers in near real time. In an embodiment one or more rounds of message s may be transmitted to mobile device s associated with the qualifier s based on viewing the map and identifying via the map when a number of mobile device s associated with the qualifiers are within a range from one or more locations. In an embodiment message s may or may not be transmitted to one or more mobile device s when a particular number of mobile device s associated with qualifier s are identified within a selected range of one or more locations. For example a campaign may be created with multiple rounds of messages which are to be transmitted to mobile device s at predetermined times and dates. However if the data visualization system detects that the number of mobile device s associated with the selected qualifier s are below a minimum when the common campaign system is scheduled to send a round of message s the common campaign system may not send message s . The common campaign system may notify a marketer through the campaign interface that message s were not sent and why so that the marketer may adjust the campaign. In an embodiment the common campaign system may transmit message s when the number of mobile device s exceeds the minimum number.

In a method is described. At block the core system may identify one or more mobile device s associated with one or more qualifier s . For example a marketer may selected one or more qualifier s which may be associated with owners and or users of mobile device s . A data store may be accessed to identify one or more mobile device s e.g. a mobile device identifications which may associated with the one or more qualifier s . The one or more mobile device s may be associated with the one or more qualifier s by examining raw data and metadata associated with the mobile device s . Using heuristics one or more inference s may be made associating the raw data and the metadata with the qualifier s . In an embodiment the core system may identify the one or more mobile device s associated with the one or more qualifier s by identifying profile data associated with one or more mobile device s and relating the profile data with one or more qualifier s using heuristics. In an embodiment the one or more qualifiers may comprise at least one characteristic associated with at least one of a mobile device a mobile device user or a mobile device owner.

At block the core system may associate the one or more mobile device s with the one or more adapter s and or . In an embodiment the one or more adapters and or may provide a channel for the one or more mobile device s to receive one or more message s .

At block the core system may identify one or more rules associated with at least the one or more adapter s and or . The one or more rules may limit the number of message they may be transmitted through a particular adapter and or a channel associated with a particular adapter and or and or a particular mobile device . In an embodiment the one or more rules may be associated with at least one or more mobile device s . In an embodiment the one or more rules may comprise at least one of a maximum frequency of messages received a maximum frequency of messages received from a particular marketer a maximum frequency of messages received from a particular message campaign a maximum number of messages received a maximum number of messages received from a particular marketer or a maximum number of messages received from a particular message campaign.

At block the core system may transmit one or more message s through the one or more adapters and or to the one or more mobile device s based on at least the one or more rules. In an embodiment transmitting one or more message s may comprise transmitting only one message at a time through an adapter and or until detecting that a return message associated with the message is in one of a success queue a wait queue or a dead queue. In an embodiment transmitting one or more message s may comprise transmitting only one message at a time through an adapter and or until a predetermined amount of time has passed where no return message associated with the message is detected in any of a success queue a wait queue and a dead queue. In an embodiment the one or more message s may be related to at least one of the qualifier s .

The core system may be configured to locate mobile device s in near real time so that one or more message s may be transmitted when at least one of the mobile device s is still located in a geographic area. In an embodiment the core system may be configured to locate mobile device s in near real time so that one or more message s may be transmitted when at least half of the mobile device s are still located in a geographic area. In an embodiment the one or more message s may be related to at least one of the qualifier s and or the selected geographic area.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

