---

title: Blind fastener assembly and release pin apparatus
abstract: A blind fastener assembly utilizes flexible legs extending from a cylindrical section of a spring pin. Gripping elements extend radially outwardly from the ends of the flexible legs. When the flexible legs and gripping elements are extended through an opening in the wall, a center pin can be pushed into the cylindrical portion to expand the flexible legs so that the gripping elements can engage the back of the wall. In one embodiment, removal of the center pin causes the flexible legs to contract whereupon the assembly can be removed from the wall.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09217452&OS=09217452&RS=09217452
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09217452
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130531
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to fastener systems and more particularly to a blind fastener assembly and release pin apparatus and method.

In general fasteners are used in a variety of industry applications including construction machining and the like. Blind through hole fastener applications are problematic in certain situations because the internal sides of the materials to be connected are not normally readily accessible by tools making it difficult to use conventional methods of hanging and clamping items.

One type of blind through hole prior art fastener makes use of screws that require an internal material wood or metal stud for example that the screw can mount to. However if the internal material is not present the screws won t be effective.

Another example of prior art are molly bolts which function by being increasingly tightened to increase the diameter thereof and thereby grip the inside walls of a drilled hole. This prior art fastener will often not completely engage the material used to anchor the fastener resulting in the fastener performing a spinning motion or if in place cannot be tightened to an appreciable holding force. This results in damaging the material such as a wall to which the fastener is being attached without providing any meaningful ways to clamp or hang a second item to the wall.

The present invention comprises a new and improved fastener with a release and engage pin for fastening and releasing parts together in a rapid and secure manner while still providing for the external ability to adjustably tighten or loosen the tension of the pin with respect to the wall. Accordingly those of skill in the art will appreciate the present invention which addresses the above discussed and other problems.

An object of the present invention is to provide an improved blind fastener and release pin that can be utilized more quickly and reliably than conventional fastening methods.

Another object of the present invention to provide an improved blind fastener assembly comprising a fastener with a center pin for fastening and releasing the assembly from a wall in a rapid yet secure manner.

Still another object of the invention is to provide an improved blind fastener and releasable center pin that can be tightened securely to external wall material which provides a pin that is sturdily secured to the external wall material to for example hang or support items as desired.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein by way of illustration and example an embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. However it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the above and or other objects of the invention.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a blind fastener assembly is provided for mounting to a wall through an opening in the wall. The opening in the wall comprises an inner diameter and the wall comprises a first surface which may be the wall outer surface and a second surface on an opposite side thereof which may not be readily accessible.

The blind fastener assembly may comprise a spring pin comprising a length extendable through the first surface and the second surface of the wall. The spring pin comprises a cylindrical portion and a plurality of expandable legs extending from the cylindrical portion. The expandable legs have expandable leg ends. The cylindrical portion further comprises a plurality of threads on an outside of the cylindrical portion. The spring pin defines an interior receptacle. A plurality of gripping elements are positioned adjacent the expandable leg ends. The gripping elements extend radially outwardly from the expandable leg ends. The gripping elements and the expandable leg ends are moveable between a collapsed position and an expanded position. The plurality of gripping elements are sized to fit within the inner diameter of the opening in the wall in the collapsed position.

The assembly may further comprise a center pin receivable into the receptacle of the spring pin. The center pin comprises a length and a diameter operable to selectively engage an interior of the plurality of expandable legs for expanding the expandable leg ends radially outwardly. Accordingly when the plurality of gripping elements are extended past the first surface which may be the outer wall surface and the second surface which may be an inner wall surface then the center pin is moveable within the receptacle to urge the expandable legs to the expanded position so that the plurality of gripping elements are expanded to a size greater than the inner diameter of the opening in the wall.

A nut may be mountable to the threads on the spring pin and positioned for applying selectable tension against the first surface and for urging the gripping elements against the second surface of the wall as the nut is rotated.

In one embodiment the center pin is sufficiently retractable from the receptacle to allow the plurality of expandable legs and the plurality of gripping elements to return to the collapsed position whereby the blind fastener assembly is removable from the wall.

The plurality of expandable legs may be comprised of spring material biased toward the collapsed position so that when the center pin is sufficiently retracted from the receptacle of the spring pin then the expandable legs automatically move to the collapsed position.

In another embodiment the plurality of expandable legs is comprised of a sufficiently resilient material to be operable for repeated insertion and removal. The center pin may be axially moveable within the receptacle of the spring pin.

The blind fastener assembly may further comprise at least one ball detent connection provided between the spring pin and the center pin the ball detent connection is engagable in the expanded position. When engaged the ball detent connection resists additional relative axial movement between the spring pin and the center pin.

In another embodiment the blind fastener assembly may comprise a fixture on the center pin operable for receiving a tool for rotation of the center pin to engage and disengage the ball detent connection. The center pin may be substantially cylindrical.

The plurality of gripping elements may further comprise a plurality of teeth positioned for engagingly gripping the second surface of the wall. In another embodiment the plurality of gripping elements comprise a rounded end portion operable to guide the plurality of gripping elements through the opening in the wall.

In yet another embodiment the blind fastener assembly may further comprise a sheet of material positionable against the first surface of the wall. In this example the spring pin and the nut are operable for selectively securely mounting the sheet of material to the first surface of the wall.

The blind fastener assembly may further comprise engagement surfaces respectively for each of the plurality of gripping elements. The engagement surfaces may be substantially parallel to the second surface of the wall.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is depicted one possible embodiment of blind fastener assembly . Blind fastener assembly can be utilized in a wall with outer wall surface and inner wall surface . Additional layers of material such as sheet material may also be mounted to the wall if desired.

While the term wall is used in accord with this specification the term wall may refer to any type of structure in which the pin may be utilized. Inner wall surface is normally not readily accessible and therefore the connector is referred to as a blind fastener assembly. Wall material may comprise drywall wood or other materials and could comprise multiple interior walls or surfaces.

In blunt nose is in a disengaged or collapsed position as indicated by distance between blunt nose ends or grippers A and B. In the disengaged position the outer diameter of blunt nose is small enough so that blunt nose can easily be inserted into hole having inner diameter .

Blunt nose may be supported by flexible legs that extend from body of spring pin . In this illustrated embodiment spring pin utilizes two legs although additional split flexible legs may be utilized without departing from the scope of the invention. For example three or four substantially identical split legs might be utilized in the same manner as discussed hereinafter for two legs. In one embodiment the legs comprise spring material which can be biased inwardly to the collapsed or disengaged position and then expanded outwardly by axial movement of center pin to an engaged or expanded position in a manner discussed hereinafter. Accordingly center pin could also be referred to as an engage release pin.

Legs are separate and may be comprised of a spring like or flexible material whereby it may or may not be necessary to compress nose ends or grippers A and B of blunt nose together to insert blunt nose into hole .

In one possible embodiment legs may compress inwardly when inserted into hole and then spring outwardly when blunt nose extends past inner wall . However in a preferred embodiment legs may be made so that distance simply retains a size that fits into hole or could conceivably be spring biased inwardly so that distance is smaller or there is no gap between the legs in the collapsed position. Legs and nose ends A and B can then be expanded outwardly to engage inner wall surface of wall in the manner explained hereinafter. Hole will preferably be drilled or created so the size or outer diameter of blunt nose fits into inner diameter of hole .

In one possible embodiment upper body or some upper portion of spring pin is tubular or cylindrical. Spring pin may preferably be a one piece element with a cylindrical upper body from which a plurality of flexible legs extend. Upper body may comprise upper receptacle or opening into which center pin can be inserted. Spring pin further comprises tapered receptacle between flexible legs . Nose ends or grippers A and B extend radially outwardly from the ends of legs . Tapered receptacle is an extension of opening or receptacle into which center pin is inserted to move flexible legs outwardly when center pin is further inserted into the opening as shown in .

Nose ends or grippers A and B may have a rounded lower end for easier and guiding insertion into hole in the wall. In another embodiment blunt nose portion could have a more pointed end. Nose ends or grippers A and B comprise engagement surfaces A and B which may preferably but are not necessarily required to have teeth as shown in and for frictionally engaging inner wall surface as discussed hereinafter. Engagement surfaces A and B are preferably generally parallel to inner wall surface and may have an area that depends on the number of flexible legs the size of opening and related factors.

In one possible embodiment spring pin with blunt nose portion further comprises one or more receptors or detents which can receive ball shaped elements on center pin . Typically this may be referred to herein as a ball detent connection. Alternatively the ball detent connection could have the ball shaped elements on legs and the receptors could be on center pin . When center pin is moved axially with respect to legs to the correct axial position then center pin can be rotated perhaps with a socket drive on nut to engage and disengage the ball detent connection. In another embodiment a detent ball release mechanism may be provided in a central part of center pin as is sometimes used with detent ball release mechanisms which can be affixed in position with a cotter pin not shown through opening . If the cotter pin is removed from opening and center pin is rotated with respect to the ball release mechanism such as with nut then the detent balls may be released. As discussed hereinafter the engaged ball detent connection prevents or resists relative axial movement between center pin and spring pin .

Center pin which may also be referred to herein as a release and engage pin is an elongated member sized to be received within and expand the tapered receptacle of spring pin . Tapered receptacle may have a rounded interior surface if desired and center pin may preferably be rounded or cylindrical. As noted above ball projections can be positioned so they are oriented to mate with detents on expandable legs respectively. This occurs when release and engage center pin is axially moved to or positioned in the expanded or engaged position as discussed hereinafter in reference to .

Nut and the outer cylindrical surface of body preferably comprise a threaded connection whereby nut can be screwed onto the outside of body of spring pin . Nut can be utilized to tighten blind fastener assembly against the wall with a desired or selectable amount of tension.

In operation hole is drilled through material which may comprise multiple surfaces including a wall by way of example and is referred to herein as a wall even though the wall may comprise multiple walls panels or the like. Nose of spring pin is pushed into hole in surface as shown in and then further pushed into hole until nose ends or grippers A and B extend past inner wall surface . At this point legs of spring pin are free to expand allowing nose ends or grippers A and B to move outward for gripping a backside of inner wall surface .

In one embodiment spring pin can be made to spring outwardly on exit from shaft . In a preferred embodiment spring pin is made to simply hold the dimension of shaft or be compressed together until engage and release center pin is pushed into tapered receptacle of spring pin to expand flexible legs and nose ends or grippers A and B radially outwardly. In other words engage and release center pin is pushed into spring pin and effectively forces flexible legs and grippers A and B radially outward as indicated by arrow in such that blunt nose portion is now larger in diameter than the inner diameter of shaft or hole .

Engage and release center pin is extended to the correct depth in spring pin which may be marked for this purpose with a line not shown or the like on center pin if desired. At this relative axial position between center pin and spring pin a twist of engage and release pin relative to spring pin allows ball shaped extensions to engage mating receptacles or detents to provide the ball detent connection. As discussed previously if utilized with a ball release mechanism centrally positioned within center pin which is held in position with a cotter pin through hole the cotter pin would be removed prior to rotation. As noted above a nut such as hex nut may be utilized with a suitable wrench for twisting engage and release pin . The ball detent connection locks spring pin with engage and release center pin together to prevent or resist further relative axial movement between spring pin and center pin . Nut which may be a hex nut or the like may already be threaded into place and or may be connected and rotated to selectively tighten the desired tension against the wall outer surface as needed depending on the application. Teeth on engagement surfaces A and B on the reverse side of nose ends or grippers A and B effectively grip the backside of the wall material allowing for further friction gripping of blind fastener assembly against the wall as needed.

In this way blind fastener assembly may be effectively fastened to and extend from outer surface of the wall. As well or in addition layered materials such as plates additional wall material pictures or the like any type of which may be indicated by item may be clamped between outer wall surface and nut to hold them in place.

In one embodiment removal simply requires nut to be backed off of threads . Depending on the application engage and release pin is then twisted relative to spring pin so that ball elements disengage from detents . Engage and release center pin is then axially retracted or completely removed from tapered receptacle of spring pin . In one embodiment flexible legs and grippers A and B are biased to then contract to the collapsed or disengaged position to allow spring pin to be extracted from shaft . Thus in this embodiment blind fastener assembly is quickly and easily removable if desired. Moreover because the assembly is resilient the assembly may be mounted and removed frequently.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

