---

title: Periodic channel state information (CSI) reporting using a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH)
abstract: Technology for periodic channel state information (CSI) reporting using a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) is disclosed. One method can include a user equipment (UE) generating a CSI report with a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) first reporting type and a CSI report with a PUCCH second reporting type; and dropping a CSI report with the PUCCH first reporting type of a serving cell when the CSI report with the PUCCH first reporting type has a collision with the CSI report with PUCCH second reporting type of the serving cell. The PUCCH first reporting type can have a lower priority level than the PUCCH second reporting type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554297&OS=09554297&RS=09554297
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09554297
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 688 794 filed Nov. 29 2012 entitled PERIODIC CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION REPORTING FOR COORDINATED MULTIPOINT CoMP SYSTEMS which claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 627 filed Aug. 3 2012 each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may also be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. CoMP operation can apply to downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions. Downlink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device e.g. UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device e.g. UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection. Uplink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories joint reception JR and coordinated scheduling and beamforming CS CB . With JR a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmitted by the wireless device e.g. UE can be received jointly at multiple points at a time frame. The set of the multiple points can constitute the CoMP reception point RP set and can be included in part of UL CoMP cooperating set or in an entire UL CoMP cooperating set. JR can be used to improve the received signal quality. In CS CB user scheduling and precoding selection decisions can be made with coordination among points corresponding to the UL CoMP cooperating set. With CS CB PUSCH transmitted by the UE can be received at one point.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An increase in the amount of wireless data transmission has created congestion in wireless networks using licensed spectrum to provide wireless communication services for wireless devices such as smart phones and tablet devices. The congestion is especially apparent in high density and high use locations such as urban locations and universities.

One technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices is through the use carrier aggregation of multiple smaller bandwidths to form a virtual wideband channel at a wireless device e.g. UE . In carrier aggregation CA multiple component carriers CC can be aggregated and jointly used for transmission to from a single terminal. Carriers can be signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier can be determined by the aggregated carrier s bandwidth in the frequency domain. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations can become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation CA enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a node. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. Carrier aggregation provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or communicating large data files.

Network symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers offered by a network in a sector. UE symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers configured for a UE. The number of DL CCs may be at least the number of UL CCs. A system information block type SIB can provide specific linking between the DL and the UL. illustrates a block diagram of a symmetric asymmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is symmetric between the DL and UL for the network and asymmetric between the DL and UL for the UE. illustrates a block diagram of an asymmetric symmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is asymmetric between the DL and UL for the network and symmetric between the DL and UL for the UE.

A component carrier can be used to carry channel information via a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a uplink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using SC FDMA or OFDMA may also be used.

Reference signals RS can be transmitted by SC FDMA symbols via resource elements in the resource blocks. Reference signals or pilot signals or tones can be a known signal used for various reasons such as to synchronize timing estimate a channel and or noise in the channel. Reference signals can be received and transmitted by wireless devices and nodes. Different types of reference signals RS can be used in a RB. For example in LTE systems uplink reference signal types can include a sounding reference signal SRS and a UE specific reference signal UE specific RS or UE RS or a demodulation reference signal DM RS . In LTE systems downlink reference signal types can include channel state information reference signals CSI RS which can be measured by a wireless device to provide CSI reports on a channel.

An uplink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH or control information on a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH . In LTE the uplink physical channel PUCCH carrying uplink control information UCI can include channel state information CSI reports Hybrid Automatic Retransmission reQuest HARQ ACKnowledgment Negative ACKnowledgment ACK NACK and uplink scheduling requests SR .

The wireless device can provide aperiodic CSI reporting using the PUSCH or periodic CSI reporting using PUCCH. The PUCCH can support multiple formats i.e. PUCCH format with various modulation and coding schemes MCS as shown for LTE in Table 1. For example PUCCH format can be used to convey multi bit HARQ ACK which can be used for carrier aggregation.

In another example PUCCH format can use frequency hopping as illustrated in . Frequency hopping can be a method of transmitting radio signals by rapidly switching a carrier among many frequency channels using a pseudorandom sequence or specified sequence known to both a transmitter e.g. UE in an uplink and a receiver e.g. eNB in the uplink . Frequency hopping can enable the UE to exploit the frequency diversity of a wideband channel used in LTE in an uplink while keeping a contiguous allocation in the time domain .

The PUCCH can include various channel state information CSI reports. The CSI components in the CSI reports can include a channel quality indicator CQI a precoding matrix indicator PMI a precoding type indicator PTI and or rank indication RI reporting type. The CQI can be signaled by a UE to the eNodeB to indicate a suitable data rate such as a modulation and coding scheme MCS value for downlink transmissions which can be based on a measurement of the received downlink signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR and knowledge of the UE s receiver characteristics. The PMI can be a signal fed back by the UE to support multiple input multiple output MIMO operation. The PMI can correspond to an index of the precoder within a codebook shared by the UE and eNodeB which can maximize an aggregate number of data bits which can be received across all downlink spatial transmission layers. PTI can be used to distinguish slow from fast fading environments. The RI can be signaled to the eNodeB by UEs configured for PDSCH transmission modes e.g. open loop spatial multiplexing and e.g. closed loop spatial multiplexing . RI can correspond to a number of useful transmission layers for spatial multiplexing based on the UE s estimate of the downlink channel enabling the eNodeB to adapt the PDSCH transmissions accordingly.

The granularity of a CQI report can be divided into three levels wideband UE selected subband and higher layer configured subband. The wideband CQI report can provide one CQI value for an entire downlink system bandwidth. The UE selected subband CQI report can divide the system bandwidth into multiple subbands where the UE can select a set of preferred subbands the best M subbands then report one CQI value for the wideband and one differential CQI value for the set assuming transmission only over the selected M subbands . The higher layer configured subband CQI report can provide a highest granularity. In the higher layer configured subband CQI report the wireless device can divide the entire system bandwidth into multiple subbands then reports one wideband CQI value and multiple differential CQI values such as one for each subband.

The UCI carried by the PUCCH can use different PUCCH reporting types or CQI PMI and RI reporting types to specify which CSI reports are being transmitted. For example PUCCH reporting Type can support CQI feedback for UE selected sub bands Type can support subband CQI and second PMI feedback Type Type and Type can support wideband CQI and PMI feedback Type can support wideband PMI feedback Type can supports RI feedback Type can supports wideband CQI Type can support RI and wideband PMI feedback and Type can support RI and PTI feedback.

Different CSI components can be included based on the PUCCH reporting type. For example RI can be included in PUCCH reporting types or . Wideband PTI can be included in PUCCH reporting type . Wideband PMI can be included in PUCCH reporting types or . Wideband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types or . Subband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types or .

The CQI PMI and RI PUCCH reporting types with distinct periods and offsets can be supported for the PUCCH CSI reporting modes illustrated by the table in . illustrates an example for LTE of the PUCCH reporting type and payload size per PUCCH reporting mode and mode state.

The CSI information reported can vary based on the downlink transmission scenarios used. The various scenarios for the downlink can be reflected in different transmission modes TMs . For example in LTE TM can use a single transmit antenna TM can use transmit diversity TM can use open loop spatial multiplexing with cyclic delay diversity CDD TM can use closed loop spatial multiplexing TM can use multi user MIMO MU MIMO TM can use closed loop spatial multiplexing using a single transmission layer TM can use beamforming with UE specific RS TM can use single or dual layer beamforming with UE specific RS and TM can use a multilayer transmission to support closed loop single user MIMO SU MIMO or carrier aggregation. In an example TM can be used for coordinated multipoint CoMP signaling such as joint processing JP dynamic point selection DPS and or coordinated scheduling coordinated beamforming CS CB .

Each transmission mode can use different PUCCH CSI reporting modes where each PUCCH CSI reporting mode can represent different CQI and PMI feedback types as shown for LTE in Table 2.

For example in LTE TMs and can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes or TMs and can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes or TM can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes or if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting or PUCCH CSI reporting modes or if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting and TMs and can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes or if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting and number of CSI RS ports is greater than one or PUCCH CSI reporting modes or if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting or number of CSI RS ports is equal to one. Based on the downlink transmission scheme e.g. transmission mode a UE can generate more CSI reports than may be permitted to be transmitted to nodes e.g. eNBs without generating a signal collision or interference. The wireless device e.g. UE may make a determination on the CSI reports to keep and transmit and which CSI reports to drop or discard and not transmit to avoid a collision on a subframe.

In CSI reporting the PUCCH format can convey 4 to 11 CSI CQI PMI PTI RI bits from the UE to the eNB. In carrier aggregation each serving cell can be independently configured by radio resource control RRC signaling regarding a CSI configuration such as a periodicity a starting offset or a PUCCH mode. However the transmission of CSI using PUCCH format may only be performed in primary cell. In an example using PUCCH format one CSI report for a specified serving cell may be transmitted while the remaining CSI reports for other serving cells may be dropped when more than one CSI report for multiple serving cells has a potential to collide with each other in a same subframe. Dropping the CSI reports for other serving cells may prevent the collision of the CSI reports in the same subframe. In an example the criteria used to determine the priority of a periodic CSI reports transmitted and the periodic CSI reports that are dropped can be based on a PUCCH reporting type with a lower CSI reporting type priority being dropped. PUCCH reporting types and can have a highest or top priority and PUCCH reporting types and can have a next priority or a second priority and PUCCH reporting types and can have a third or lowest priority. So the UE can drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types first then drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types and second then drop any CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types and above the number of CSI report s to be transmitted. In an example a CSI report can be generated for each component carrier CC . Each CC can be represented by a serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex . Among CSI reports having reporting types with a same priority e.g. PUCCH reporting types and a priority of a cell can decrease as the corresponding serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex increases i.e. the lower cell index has higher priority .

In another example the CSI report priority can be based on the CSI component where RI and wideband PMI reporting have a higher priority than CQI reporting and wideband CQI reporting has a higher priority than subband CQI reporting. RI can have a higher priority because RI can provide general information about a network channel conditions. In an example PMI and CQI can be dependent on RI. Wideband CQI can have higher priority than subband CQI because wideband CQI can provide general quality information about a channel or to a worst case scenario of the channel whereas the subband CQI provides narrower subband channel quality information.

In an example additional CSI reports can be generated in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system. Additional criteria for dropping CSI reports may be used in a CoMP system. A CoMP system also known as multi eNodeB multiple input multiple output MIMO can be used to improve interference mitigation. At least four basic scenarios can be used for CoMP operation.

Downlink DL CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given mobile communication device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a mobile communication device UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and dynamic cell selection. Two methods can be used for joint transmission non coherent transmission which uses soft combining reception of the OFDM signal and coherent transmission which performs precoding between cells for in phase combining at the receiver. By coordinating and combining signals from multiple antennas CoMP allows mobile users to enjoy consistent performance and quality for high bandwidth services whether the mobile user is close to the center of a cell or at the outer edges of the cell.

Even with a single serving cell i.e. single component carrier CC scenario multiple periodic CSI reports may be transmitted for DL CoMP. The PUCCH report can define the format and uplink resources on which CSI can be provided i.e. the PUCCH report configuration can define how to transmit the CSI feedback. For CoMP operations measuring the CSI can be defined by a CoMP CSI process which can include a configuration of a channel and interference part. Therefore different CSI reports can be associated with different processes. For example the CoMP CSI measurement associated with one CoMP CSI process can be transmitted using periodic or aperiodic feedback modes.

The multiple periodic CSI processes can be configured by the network using certain IDs or index numbers in order to facilitate the multiple periodic CSI feedbacks. As used herein the CSI process index CSIProcessIndex or CSIProcessID refers to such realization of multiple periodic CSI processes. For example if a serving cell e.g. serving node configures three periodic CSI processes the network can configure three CSI periodic processes and the CSIProcessIndex can be numbered as and . Each periodic CSI process can be configured by RRC signaling independently.

In legacy LTE only one periodic CSI report may be transmitted by PUCCH format or . In a case where more than one periodic CSI transmission coincides in a subframe only one periodic CSI report may be transmitted and the remaining periodic CSI reports may be dropped. Although the multiple periodic CSI reports can be transmitted on either the PUCCH with PUCCH format or the PUSCH the maximum payload for aggregated periodic CSI can still be limited. For example up to 22 information bits can be conveyed using PUCCH format . Thus if the number of aggregated periodic CSI bits exceeds 22 bits the remaining CSI reports may be dropped. In an example if PUCCH format is used for periodic CSI transmission only one CSI process may be selected for the transmission regardless of the capacity criterion.

Various methods can be used to determine what CSI process or CSI report can be dropped when the CSIProcessID is used. For illustration purposes the PUCCH with the PUCCH format which can convey multiple CSI is assumed however the same principle can be used in other cases such as other PUCCH formats or PUSCH.

If aggregated periodic CSI information bits do not exceed a maximum capacity of a certain PUCCH format e.g. PUCCH format PUCCH format PUSCH or other formats the aggregated periodic CSI can be transmitted on the corresponding PUCCH format. Otherwise i.e. if the aggregated periodic CSI information bits exceed the maximum capacity of the certain PUCCH format the periodic CSIs among the CSI processes can be selected such that the aggregated periodic CSI payload is a largest number of CSI processes not more than the maximum capacity for the PUCCH format used in the PUCCH. For example if the number of CSI processes is and PUCCH format is used and if the number of CSI bits is 11 for each CSI process the CSI for only two CSI processes may be transmitted on PUCCH format and the remaining 3 CSI processes may be dropped.

Various methods can be used to determine a priority rule for dropping CSI processes and or reports. PUCCH using PUCCH format with multi process CSI transmission or PUCCH format with a single CSI process can be used. For example if the PUCCH uses PUCCH format for periodic CSI transmission only one CSI process may be selected for the transmission regardless of the capacity criterion.

In a method i.e. method the priority for retaining or dropping the CSI processes in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be determined by a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types b and then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and .

If the aggregated number of CSI bits still exceeds 22 bits with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process remains with PUCCH format one of two rules can be used. Using a first rule a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with a same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID . For example a priority of a CSI process ID decreases as the corresponding CSI process ID increases thus a lower CSI process ID can have a higher priority. Using a second rule the priority of the can be CSI process configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method a priority for retaining or dropping the CSI processes in a colliding subframe can be given by RRC signaling. In an example a maximum capacity for PUCCH format can be 11 bits PUCCH format can be 22 bits and PUSCH can be 55 bits.

A priority for retaining or dropping the CSI reports can also be determined for a simultaneous usage of carrier aggregation using a ServCellIndex and CoMP scenarios using a CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex such as transmission mode . The priorities for dropping CSI reports can be defined considering both a carrier and CSI process domain.

For example in a method i.e. method A the priority for the CSI processes and component carrier used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and .

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format one of three rules can be used. Using a first rule a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the serving cell indices e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

If the aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same serving cell index can be determined based on a CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

Using a second rule the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes for each serving cell with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

If the aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same CSI process index can be determined based on a serving cell index e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

Using a third rule the priority across CCs used in carrier aggregation and or CSI process indices used in CoMP scenarios can be configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method B all the priorities for the CSI processes used in CoMP scenarios and the component carrier used in carrier aggregation can be configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method C the CSI process index can be uniquely defined across serving cells and CSI processes i.e. the unique CSI process index can be combination of the CSIProcessIndex and the ServCellIndex . In an example the CSI process index can be determined and communicated via RRC signaling. For example with two serving cell aggregations and three CSI processes per serving cell the total number of CSI processes can be uniquely defined for 6 CSI processes i.e. per CSI process and .

Using a unique CSI process index the priority for the CSI processes used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and .

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with the priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

In another method i.e. method D a default CSI process index can be defined on each serving cell. Each default CSI process index can have a highest priority per each serving cell. Using a default CSI process index for each serving cell the priority for the CSI processes used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and .

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the default CSI processes with the priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

In another example a dropping rule for a combined carrier aggregation and CoMP scenario can be used for multiplexing of CSI and HARQ ACK using PUCCH format . Automatic Repeat reQuest is a feedback mechanism whereby a receiving terminal requests retransmission of packets which are detected to be erroneous. Hybrid ARQ is a simultaneous combination of Automatic Retransmission reQuest ARQ and forward error correction FEC which can enables the overhead of error correction to be adapted dynamically depending on the channel quality. When HARQ is used and if the errors can be corrected by FEC then no retransmission may be requested otherwise if the errors can be detected but not corrected a retransmission can be requested. An ACKnowledgment ACK signal can be transmitted to indicate that one or more blocks of data such as in a PDSCH have been successfully received and decoded. HARQ ACK Negative ACKnowledgement NACK or NAK information can include feedback from a receiver to the transmitter in order to acknowledge a correct reception of a packet or ask for a new retransmission via NACK or NAK .

In an example for a UE configured with PUCCH format for HARQ ACK transmission and for a subframe where a UE is configured to transmit HARQ ACK transmission with periodic CSI and for a subframe where a PUCCH format resource is indicated to the UE for HARQ ACK transmission the UE can transmit HARQ ACK and a single cell periodic CSI according to the following process. No additional PUCCH format resources in addition to the format resource may be configured for HARQ ACK and CSI multiplexing. HARQ ACK and periodic CSI can be jointly coded up to 22 bits including schedule requests SR . The serving cell for periodic CSI reporting can be selected when the selected periodic CSI report together with HARQ ACK feedback bits including the SR can fit into the PUCCH format 3 payload size. Then the periodic CSI and HARQ ACK bits including SR can be transmitted otherwise HARQ ACK including SR without periodic CSI can be transmitted.

In a combined carrier aggregation and CoMP case only one CSI report may be selected for a combined CSI process and ACK NACK A N feedback on a PUCCH with PUCCH format . The selected rule of method A B C and D above can be used to select one periodic CSI report for the combined CSI process and A N on the PUCCH with PUCCH format .

For example the dropping rule using method A can be represented as follows The priority for the CSI processes and component carrier used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types and

If more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes for each serving cell with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

Then if more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same CSI process index can be determined based on a serving cell index e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to report periodic channel state information CSI configured in a specified transmission mode as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to generate a plurality of CSI reports for transmission in a subframe for a plurality of CSI processes wherein each CSI report corresponds to a CSI process with a CSIProcessIndex as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to drop CSI reports corresponding to CSI processes except a CSI process with a lowest CSIProcessIndex as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to transmit at least one CSI report for the CSI process to an evolved Node B eNB as in block

In an example the computer circuitry configured to drop CSI reports can be further configured to Determine a selected number of CSI reports to transmit based on a physical uplink control channel PUCCH format and drop the CSI reports corresponding to all CSI processes but the selected number of highest priority CSI reports corresponding to the CSI processes to avoid a CSI reporting collision in the subframe. The PUCCH format can include a PUCCH format with at least a one CSI report.

In another example the computer circuitry configured to drop CSI reports can be further configured to drop CSI reports based on a ServCellIndex except a CSI report with a lowest ServCellIndex when the CSIProcessIndexes for the CSI reports are the same. In another example the computer circuitry can be further configured to drop at least one lower priority CSI report based on a physical uplink control channel PUCCH reporting type of a serving cell prior to dropping the lower priority CSI report based on the CSIProcessIndex. PUCCH reporting types and can have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types and and PUCCH reporting types and have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types and . The highest priority CSI report can include a lowest CSIProcessIndex. In another configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to assign a default CSI process with a highest priority CSI process for a serving cell corresponding to a lowest CSIProcessIndex. In another example the CSIProcessIndex can be unique for a specified CSI process and a specified serving cell. The specified transmission mode can be used for a coordinated multipoint CoMP configuration. In an example the specified transmission mode can include transmission mode used for a CoMP configuration.

Another example provides a method for periodic channel state information CSI reporting from a user equipment UE in a coordinated multipoint CoMP scenario as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of determining at the UE a number of CSI reports to collide in a subframe wherein the CSI reports include a plurality of CSI processes wherein each CSI report corresponds to a CSI process with a CSI process index as in block . The operation of prioritizing the number of CSI reports wherein a CSI process with a higher priority has a lower CSI process index follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be dropping a lower priority CSI report based in part on the CSI process index as in block . The method can further include transmitting from the UE at least one highest priority CSI report to a node as in block .

The operation of prioritizing the number of CSI reports can further include prioritizing the number of CSI reports based on a channel quality indicator CQI precoding matrix indicator PMI rank indication RI reporting type wherein CQI PMI RI reporting types and have a priority higher than CQI PMI RI reporting types and and CQI PMI RI reporting types and have a priority higher than CQI PMI RI reporting types and . In an example the operation of prioritizing the number of CSI reports can further include prioritizing the number of CSI reports based on a serving cell index or a component carrier CC where the CC with a higher priority has a lower serving cell index then prioritizing the number of CSI reports based on the CSI process index. In another example the operation of prioritizing the number of CSI reports can further include prioritizing the number of CSI reports based on the CSI process index then prioritizing the number of CSI reports based on a serving cell index or a component carrier CC where the CC with a higher priority has a lower serving cell index.

In another configuration the operation of prioritizing the number of CSI reports can further include receiving via radio resource control RRC signaling a priority for the CSI reports based on a CSI process index or a component carrier CC for each CSI report. In another example a unique CSI process index can be assigned for a specified CSI process and a specified CC. In another example the method can further include defining a default CSI process with a highest priority CSI process. The default CSI process can correspond to a lowest CSI process index.

The operation of transmitting the at least one highest priority CSI report can further include transmitting a non colliding CSI report for each at most 11 CSI bits available in a PUCCH format. The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU .

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for a periodic channel state information CSI transmission configured in a specified transmission mode such as transmission mode used in a CoMP operation. The processing module can be configured to generate a priority of a CSI report in a plurality of CSI reports for a subframe based on a CSI process index and a physical uplink control channel PUCCH reporting type and drop a lower priority CSI report. The CSI process index can correspond to a downlink DL CoMP CSI process. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit at least one higher priority CSI report to a node.

In an example a highest priority CSI process for a serving cell can correspond to a lowest CSIProcessIndex. PUCCH reporting types with rank indication RI or wideband precoding matrix indicator PMI feedback without channel quality indicator CQI feedback can have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting types with CQI feedback and PUCCH reporting types with wideband CQI feedback can have a priority higher than PUCCH reporting with subband CQI feedback.

In a configuration the processing module can be further configured to prioritize the CSI reports based on a serving cell index then prioritize the CSI reports based on a CSI process index. The CSI report with a lower serving cell index can have a higher priority than a CSI report with a higher serving cell index and the CSI report for a specified serving cell index with a lower CSI process index can have a higher priority than a CSI report with for the specified serving cell index with a higher CSI process index.

In another configuration the processing module can be further configured to prioritize the CSI reports based on a CSI process index then prioritize the CSI reports based on a serving cell index. The CSI report with the CSI process index can have a higher priority than a CSI report with the higher CSI process index and the CSI report for a specified CSI process index with a lower serving cell index can have a higher priority than a CSI report with for the specified CSI process index with a higher serving cell index.

In another configuration the transceiver module can be further configured to receive a priority for a CSI report with a specified CSI process index or a specified serving cell index via radio resource control RRC signaling. In an example the processing module can be further configured to prioritize the CSI reports based on a combined CSI process index and serving cell index. The CSI report with a lower combined CSI process index and serving cell index can have a higher priority than a CSI report with a higher combined CSI process index and serving cell index. In another example the processing module can be further configured to assign a default CSI process with a highest priority CSI process. The default CSI process can have a lowest CSI process index for a plurality of CSI processes.

In another example the processing module can be further configured to multiplex a hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK and a CSI report and determine if the CSI report with HARQ ACK feedback bits and any scheduling request SR fits into a physical uplink control channel PUCCH format payload. The transceiver module can be further configured to transmit the HARQ ACK feedback bits including any SR without the CSI report when the CSI report with HARQ ACK feedback bits and any SR does not fit into the PUCCH format payload and transmit the multiplexed HARQ ACK feedback bits including any SR with the CSI report when the CSI report with HARQ ACK feedback bits and any SR fits into the PUCCH format payload. In another configuration the transceiver module can be further configured to transmit a number of non colliding CSI reports for a physical uplink control channel PUCCH format. Each CSI report can use at most 11 CSI bits.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

