---

title: System and method for driving a virtual view of agents in a contact center
abstract: A system for driving a virtual view of agents of a contact center is provided. The system includes a monitoring module for monitoring and detecting a breach in threshold associated with at least one key performance indicator of at least one agent from a plurality of agents. The system further includes a ranking module for calculating a rank of at least one agent among the plurality of agents based on predefined rules. The system further includes a driving module for driving a display of the virtual view of the plurality of agents based on the calculated rank of the at least one agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338296&OS=09338296&RS=09338296
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09338296
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
Embodiments of the present invention provide a system and a method for monitoring and managing contact center operations. More particularly embodiments of the present invention provide a system and a method for driving a virtual view of agents of the contact center.

Contact centers are employed by many enterprises to service inbound and outbound contacts from customers. A typical contact center includes a switch and or server to receive and route incoming packet switched and or circuit switched contacts and one or more resources such as human agents and automated resources e.g. Interactive Voice Response IVR units to service the incoming contacts. Contact centers distribute contacts whether inbound or outbound for servicing to any suitable resource according to predefined criteria. In many existing systems the criteria for servicing the contact from the moment the contact center becomes aware of the contact until the contact is connected to an agent are client or operator specifiable i.e. programmable by the operator of the contact center via a capability called vectoring.

Normally in present day Automatic Call Distributions ACDs when the ACD system s agent assisting system detects an agent has become available to handle a contact the agent assisting system identifies all predefined contact handling queues for the agent usually in some order of priority and delivers to the agent the highest priority oldest contact that matches the agent s highest priority queue. Generally the only condition that results in a contact not being delivered to an available agent is that there are no contacts waiting to be handled.

The primary objective of contact center management is to ultimately maximize contact center performance and profitability. An ongoing challenge in contact center administration is monitoring and optimizing contact center efficiency. The contact center efficiency is generally measured in two ways that are service level and match rate.

Service level is one measurement of contact center efficiency. Service level is typically determined by dividing the number of contacts accepted within the specified period by the number accepted plus the number that were not accepted but completed in some other way e.g. abandoned given busy canceled flowed out . Of course service level definitions may vary from one enterprise to another.

Match rate is another indicator used in measuring contact center efficiency. Match rate is usually determined by dividing the number of contacts accepted by a primary skill level agent within a period of time by the number of contacts accepted by any agent for a queue over the same period. An agent with a primary skill level is one that typically can handle contacts of a certain nature most effectively and or efficiently. There are other contact center agents that may not be as proficient as the primary skill level agent and those agents are identified either as secondary skill level agents or backup skill level agents. As can be appreciated contacts received by a primary skill level agent are typically handled more quickly and accurately or effectively e.g. higher revenue attained than a contact received by a secondary or even backup skill level agent. Thus it is an objective of most contact centers to optimize match rate along with service level.

In addition to service level and match rate performance measures contact centers use other Key Performance Indicators KPIs such as average revenue estimated actual or predicted wait time average speed of answer throughput agent utilization agent performance agent responsiveness and the like to calculate performance relative to their Service Level Agreements SLAs . Operational efficiency is achieved when KPIs are managed near but not above SLA levels.

Throughput is a measure of the number of calls contact requests or work requests that can be processed in a given amount of time. Agent utilization is a measure of how efficiently agents time is being used. Customer service level is a measure of the time customers spend waiting for their work to be handled. Company contact center customers wish to provide service to as many requests as possible in a given amount of time using the least number of agents to do so and minimizing the wait time for their customers.

Typically when a new work request arrives into a contact center a most suitable agent to work on it is selected by the contact center to handle the work request. However all agents are not at same level in the contact center. Some of the agents are very skilled also called gold rated agents but some of the agents are not very skilled but having some minimum skills also called silver rated agents . Hence it is possible that all gold rated agents are busy at some time. The contact center may forward calls at those times to silver rated agents. However as discussed above silver rated agents have only basic skill level and there is no guarantee that those calls will be handled at same quality provided by gold rated agents. Hence customers at those calls will remain unsatisfied by the handling of their calls and this may affect business of contact center.

Further some of the agents may require help or assistance during handling of the calls. For example if a less skilled agent is handling some call due to unavailability of high skilled agent the less skilled agent may require help or assistance of his her manager. However there are many agents in the contact center and these many agents may require a manager s help at same time or at different time. However a manager typically faces a difficulty in deciding to which agent he should provide help first.

This is because of the fact that the managers do not have context sensitive real time information on agents mapped in a way that reflects continually changing physical distribution of agents in a call center. Hence the managers have to keep a mental map of agents which is a continually changing agent s positions various metrics associated with performance of agents and the distribution of resources in the call center.

Therefore there is a need for a system and method capable of providing the manager of the contact center relevant and most important context sensitive real time information on agents with a physical distribution of agents in the call center.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention provide a system for driving a virtual view of agents of a contact center. The system includes a monitoring module for monitoring and detecting a breach in a threshold value associated with at least one key performance indicator of at least one agent from a plurality of agents. The system further includes a ranking module for calculating rank of at least one agent among the plurality of agents based on predefined rules. The system further includes a module for driving a display of the virtual view of the plurality of agents based on the calculated rank of the at least one agent.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention further provide a computer implemented method for driving a virtual view of agents in a contact center. The computer implemented method includes monitoring key performance indicators associated with a plurality of agents and detecting a breach in a threshold value associated with at least one key performance indicator of at least one agent from the plurality of agents. The computer implemented method further includes calculating a rank of at least one agent among the plurality of agents based on predefined rules. The computer implemented method further includes driving a display of the virtual view of the plurality of agents based on the calculated rank of the at least one agent.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention further provide a computer implemented method for driving a virtual view of agents in a contact center. The computer implemented method includes receiving a virtual view of a plurality of agents. The computer implemented method further includes monitoring key performance indicators associated with a plurality of agents and detecting a breach in a threshold value associated with at least one key performance indicator of at least one agent from the plurality of agents. The computer implemented method further includes calculating a rank of at least one agent among the plurality of agents based on predefined rules. The computer implemented method further includes driving a display of the virtual view of the plurality of agents based on the calculated rank of the at least one agent. The computer implemented method further includes providing a real time video of an agent having maximum rank among the plurality of agents.

Further the present invention can provide a number of advantages depending on its particular configuration. First embodiments of the present invention provide a system and a method that utilizes real time agent statistics to drive a virtual view of agents and hence a manager or supervisor does not have to manually drive the virtual view. Further embodiments of the present invention provide multiplexing video feeds with the virtual view thereby allowing the supervisor to directly connect with agents who are experiencing problems. Further embodiments of the present invention provide an algorithm that is used to rank the agents to ensure that most important video feeds are brought to the foreground of the manager. Further embodiments of the present invention provide virtual view of agents presented visually in a carousel view of video feeds.

Further embodiments of the present invention enable the manager to get contextual real time statistics on individual agents thereby allowing the manager to intuitively navigate and discover the source of a problem which may be agent originated in the contact center. Further embodiments of the present invention enable a manager to interact with their agents based on rank of agents without leaving their desks or even from a remote location. Furthermore the present invention enables the manager or supervisor to track their agents even if the contact center employs hot desking.

These and other advantages will be apparent from the disclosure of the present invention contained herein.

The preceding is a simplified summary of the present invention to provide an understanding of some aspects of the present invention. This summary is neither an extensive nor exhaustive overview of the present invention and its various embodiments. It is intended neither to identify key or critical elements of the present invention nor to delineate the scope of the present invention but to present selected concepts of the present invention in a simplified form as an introduction to the more detailed description presented below. As will be appreciated other embodiments of the present invention are possible utilizing alone or in combination one or more of the features set forth above or described in detail below.

The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. To facilitate understanding like reference numerals have been used where possible to designate like elements common to the figures.

The present invention will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system e.g. the Avaya Aura system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system having an Automatic Call Distribution ACD or other similar contact processing switch the present invention is not limited to any particular type of communication system switch or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize the disclosed techniques may be used in any communication application in which it is desirable to provide improved contact processing.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material. 

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage and or transmission medium that participate in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the present invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium or distribution medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the present invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated those individual aspects of the present invention can be separately claimed.

The term switch or server as used herein should be understood to include a PBX an ACD an enterprise switch or other type of communications system switch or server as well as other types of processor based communication control devices such as media servers computers adjuncts etc.

Although the preferred embodiment is discussed with reference to client server architecture it is to be understood that the principles of the present invention apply to other network architectures. For example the present invention applies to peer to peer networks such as those envisioned by the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In the client server model or paradigm network services and the programs used by end users to access the services are described. The client side provides a user with an interface for requesting services from the network and the server side is responsible for accepting user requests for services and providing the services transparent to the user. By contrast in the peer to peer model or paradigm each networked host runs both the client and server parts of an application program. Additionally the present invention does not require the presence of packet or circuit switched networks. The term switch or server as used herein should be understood to include a Private Branch Exchange PBX an ACD an enterprise switch an enterprise server or other type of telecommunications system switch or server as well as other types of processor based communication control devices such as media servers computers adjuncts etc.

In an embodiment the security gateway as shown in can be Avaya Inc. s G700 Media Gateway and may be implemented as hardware such as via an adjunct processor as shown or as a chip in the server.

The first communication devices N are packet switched and can include for example IP hardphones such as the Avaya Inc. s 4600 Series IP Phones IP softphones such as Avaya Inc. s IP Softphone Personal Digital Assistants or PDAs Personal Computers or PCs laptops packet based H.320 video phones and conferencing units packet based voice messaging and response units packet based traditional computer telephony adjuncts peer to peer based communication devices and any other communication device.

The second communication devices M are circuit switched. Each of the communication devices M corresponds to one of a set of internal extensions Ext M respectively. The second communication devices can include for example wired and wireless telephones PDAs H.320 videophones and conferencing units voice messaging and response units traditional computer telephony adjuncts and any other communication device.

It should be noted that the present invention does not require any particular type of information transport medium between switch or server and first and second communication devices i.e. the present invention may be implemented with any desired type of transport medium as well as combinations of different types of transport channels.

The packet switched network can be any data and or distributed processing network such as the Internet. The network typically includes proxies not shown registrars not shown and routers not shown for managing packet flows.

The packet switched network is in communication with a first communication device via a security gateway and the circuit switched network with an external second communication device .

In a preferred configuration the server network and first communication devices are Session Initiation Protocol SIP compatible and can include interfaces for various other protocols such as the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP H.248 H.323 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP IMAP4 ISDN E1 T1 and analog line or trunk.

It should be emphasized that the configuration of the switch server user communication devices and other elements as shown in is for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting the present invention to any particular arrangement of elements.

Further as shown in the contact center comprises the server configuration of which is explained further in conjunction with of the present invention. The server further comprises a virtual view driving system shown in as a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The detailed configuration of the virtual view driving system is explained further in conjunction with of the present invention.

In an exemplary embodiment the virtual view driving system is configured to drive a virtual view of the contact center agents based upon real time operation statistics of the contact center. A rank for the agents is calculated based upon real time operation statistics of the contact center and the rank is utilized by the virtual view driving system to drive the virtual view of agents. The operation statistics of the contact center may include but are not restricted to call traffic agent responsiveness time for new work requests average handling time of work requests target revenue of sales team and so forth. The call traffic may further include but is not restricted to telephone calls web chats audio messages video messages video calls text messages postings to social media sites and postings to blog sites.

The virtual view driving system may monitor operation statistics of the contact center. The virtual view driving system may monitor key performance indicators associated with the agents as well. The virtual view driving system may compare key performance indicators with their predefined thresholds and may determine a breach in any threshold value of the key performance indicators. The virtual view driving system may calculate a rank of agents based upon a predetermined rules or formula and may use the ranks to drive the virtual view of agents. Similarly the virtual view driving system may be configured to determine other unwanted situations such as but not restricted to higher agent responsiveness time for new work requests higher average handling time of work requests lower revenue of sales team and so forth.

The virtual view driving system may further have access to the database having stored therein personal and professional details of all the employees of the contact center. Further the database may have threshold values for each of the key performance indicators associated with agents. Further the database may store a formula or algorithm that is utilized to calculate rank of the agents. In addition the virtual view driving system may be configured to update the database .

Referring to one possible configuration of the server is depicted. The server is in communication with a plurality of customer communication lines which can be one or more trunks phone lines etc. and agent communication line which can be a voice and data transmission line such as the LAN as shown in and or a circuit switched voice line . The server can include an operational contact center reporting module not shown such as Avaya IQ CMS Basic Call Management System Operational Analyst and Customer Call Routing or CCR by Avaya Inc. gathers call records and contact center statistics for use in generating contact center reports.

The switch and or server can be any architecture for directing contacts to one or more communication devices. In some embodiments the switch may perform load balancing functions by allocating incoming or outgoing contacts among a plurality of logically and or geographically distinct contact centers. Illustratively the switch and or server can be a modified form of the subscriber premises equipment sold by Avaya Inc. under the names Definity Private Branch Exchange PBX based ACD system MultiVantage PBX Communication Manager S8300 media server and any other media servers SIP Enabled Services Intelligent Presence Server and or Avaya Interaction Center and any other products or solutions offered by Avaya or another company. Typically the switch server is a stored program controlled system that conventionally includes interfaces to external communication links a communications switching fabric service circuits e.g. tone generators announcement circuits etc. memory for storing control programs and data and a processor i.e. a computer for executing the stored control programs to control the interfaces and the fabric and to provide automatic contact distribution functionality. Other types of known switches and servers are well known in the art and therefore not described in detail herein.

Moreover as shown in among the data stored in the server is a set of contact or work item queues and a separate set of agent queues . Each contact queue corresponds to a different set of agent queues as does each agent queue . Conventionally contacts are prioritized and are either enqueued in individual ones of the contact queues in their order of priority or are enqueued in different ones of a plurality of contact queues that correspond to a different priority. Likewise each agent s queues are prioritized according to his or her level of expertise or skill in that queue and either agents are enqueued in individual ones of agent queues in their order of expertise level or are enqueued in different ones of a plurality of agent queues that correspond to a queue and each one of which corresponds to a different expertise level.

Included among the control programs in the server is a work item vector or a control vector that controls work item routing process. Contacts incoming to the contact center are assigned by the control vector to different contact queues based upon a number of predetermined criteria including customer identity customer needs contact center needs current contact center queue lengths customer value and the agent skill that is required for the proper handling of the contact. Agents who are available for handling contacts are assigned to agent queues based upon the skills that they possess. An agent may have multiple skills and hence may be assigned to multiple agent queues simultaneously. Furthermore an agent may have different levels of skill expertise e.g. skill levels N in one configuration or merely primary skill levels and secondary skill levels in another configuration and hence may be assigned to different agent queues at different expertise levels.

In one configuration the contact center is operated by a contract operator e.g. a supervisor or a manager of the contact center and each of the contact queues and possibly each of the agent queues corresponds to a different client. Each client can have a separate service level agreement or other type of performance measurement agreement with the contract operator regarding performance expectations goals requirements or specifications for the client s respective queue s . The service level agreement can set forth penalties such as financial penalties for failing to comply with the service level agreement s requirements.

According to at least one embodiment an agent and work item selector hereinafter may be referred to as selector is provided. The selector and the virtual view driving system are embodied in the server . Further the selector monitors the occupants of the work item and queues and respectively and contact center objectives rules and policies and assigns agents to service work items. As will be appreciated the server is notified via the LAN of an incoming contact by the communications component e.g. switch fax server email server web server and or other server receiving the incoming contact. The incoming contact is held by the receiving communications component until the selector forwards instructions to the component to forward or route the contact to a specific contact center resource such as the interactive response unit the voice mail server and or first or second communication device N M associated with a selected agent. The selector distributes and connects these contacts to communication devices of available agents based on the predetermined criteria noted above. When the selector forwards a voice contact to an agent the selector also forwards customer related information from databases to the agent s computer work station for previewing and or viewing such as by a pop up display to permit the agent to better serve the customer. The agents process the contacts sent to them by the selector .

As shown in an agent cube view system provides a virtual view of agents of the contact center. In an embodiment the virtual view includes virtual cube view of all agents of the contact center. The virtual cube view may be built by mapping exact coordinates of agent s desk to a series of photographs. In an embodiment the series of photographs may be taken by using a wide angle lens. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wide angle lens will allow more of a scene to be included as required in interior photography. The captured view of the cube of desks is substantially similar to an actual view seen by someone e.g. a manager passing through the desks. Further photographs of each of the agents may be taken and the photographs may be assigned to corresponding agent profile. In an embodiment the virtual view of agents together with virtual view of their cubes may form a contact center virtual tour. The contact center virtual tour may include virtual view of agents with their cubes or desks with corresponding background and is substantially similar to a view that a manager will see if the manager physically passes through the cubes.

Further in an embodiment of the present invention the contact center may employ hot desking wherein multiple agents may use a single physical work station e.g. computer laptop phone during different time periods as opposed to each agent or staff member having their own personal desk . The agents may be assigned their desks daily depending upon their duties and responsibilities on a particular day. According to an embodiment of the present invention each of the agents is provided with a sensor enabled badge to keep a track of their location. The sensor enabled badge may be read by readers not shown in figure distributed around the contact center to triangulate an approximate location of the agents. In another embodiment instead of sensor enabled badge other location tracking techniques for example Near Field Communication or NFC may be used to track the physical location of agents inside the contact center.

In an embodiment of the present invention the CMS i.e. real time reporting application may integrate with the agent cube view system . According to an embodiment of the present invention data originating from the CMS may drive the virtual view provided by the agent cube view system . In an embodiment each of the Key Performance Indicator KPI of agents is associated with a threshold value. The thresholds are pre defined and act as filters for driving virtual view of the agents. If the threshold associated with a particular KPI is breached by an agent the agent may require attention assistance of his manager. Similarly many agents may require attention and assistance of the manager. According to an embodiment of the present invention the manager provides assistance to an agent who requires most urgent attention or requires attention on a priority basis compared to other agents. The virtual view driving system helps the manager to locate the agent requiring most urgent attention and further facilitates direct interaction between the agent and the manager so that the manager may help solving the issues problem.

The virtual view driving system as shown in includes certain modules such as but not restricted to a monitoring module a ranking module a driving module and a video feed module .

The monitoring module is configured to monitor various measures for each of the agent working in the contact center. In an embodiment various measures include various Key Performance Indicators KPIs for example an average revenue an estimated wait time an actual wait time an average speed of answer a throughput an agent utilization an agent performance a customer satisfaction a service level agreement an average talk time a total average call handling time an agent responsiveness etc. According to an embodiment of the present invention each of the KPIs is associated with a threshold value which may be predefined and decided based upon a service level agreement or desired operational efficiency of the contact center. The monitoring module may retrieve the various measures for each of the agent from the CMS .

Further the monitoring module is configured to detect a breach in any thresholds of the monitored measures for each of the agent. The monitoring module may retrieve the thresholds from the database and may compare the monitored measures i.e. the KPIs against the thresholds. In case any thresholds associated with any KPIs have been breached the monitoring module may notify the ranking module . For example for a particular KPI for example average speed of answer the monitoring module may observe that a particular agent is answering only 2 calls per minute but according to a predefined threshold he should answer at least 3 calls per minute. The monitoring module may detect such breaches in the predefined thresholds and notify the ranking module .

The ranking module is configured to calculate a rank for each of the agent associated with breached thresholds. According to an embodiment of the present invention the ranking module may utilize following formula to calculate rank for the agents.

In the above formula Ris the rating given to an agent a . According to an embodiment of the present invention Ris sum of absolute normalized weighted deviations from thresholds for the measures used in the rating calculation. Further wis the weighting assigned to the measure i xis the threshold value for measure i xis the value of measure i for agent a and nis the number of measures breaching the thresholds for the agent.

Further according to an embodiment of the present invention each agent is ranked based on the above formula or algorithm. The weightings work against a severity of zero to one wherein one indicates very severe situation of a particular key performance indicator associated with an agent. The weighting is multiplied against the ratio of the absolute value of the threshold breach to the threshold as shown in the attached formula. The resultant weighted importance of the agents in terms of their threshold breaches is used to direct the view the user receives of the cubes. In an embodiment only measures that breach the threshold for a specific agent are included in the above formula.

The driving module is configured to drive the virtual view of the agents based on the calculated rank. In an embodiment of the present invention an agent having maximum rank refers to an agent requiring most urgent attention of a manger of the contact center. The driving module displays first the virtual view of the agent having maximum rank. Virtual view of other agents may be presented in a carousel view.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the rank or rating given to the agent can be used to drive any number of visualisations including the use of the carousel of live video feeds which can be driven by the rank or scoring assigned to each agent.

Further the driving module provides red and green light flashing to a user or manager of the agents. The red light flashing with a virtual view of agent may indicate that the agent requires attention of the user or manager. A green light may indicate that agent is performing well and does not require attention of the user.

The video feed module is configured to provide real time video of agent having maximum rank. In an embodiment of the present invention if the manager wants to go in detail the manager can click on the virtual view of agent and the video feed module may provide the real time video of the agent. In an embodiment the source of the real time video may be WebRTC. WebRTC architecture may endow browsers i.e. browser used by manager and browser used by agent with real time communication capabilities via javascript Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The manager and the agent requiring manager assistance may directly communicate and the manager may provide required assistance to the agent. In another embodiment the source of the real time video may be different than WebRTC such as a video conference a video call and so forth for example Skype video .

The video feed module is configured to enable the manager to open a detailed view for a day or week s activities of the agent having maximum rank in an embodiment of the present invention. The manager may open and see a detailed view of the agent s activities for a particular day or for a week as needed that may help the manager to provide assistance to the agent. Further the detailed view of the agent s activities and the assistance provided by the manager to the agent may be used as a basis to train other agents and to improve effectiveness of the contact center.

The video feed module may further integrate multiplexing video of the agents using WebRTC to activate and bring to the front the highest ranked agent or agent most in need of attention . The video feed module may further display the other agent video feeds in a carousel where the user can quickly switch from one to another for example like a view of static album covers . Further the video may be overlaid with the real time statistics contributing to the relevant agent score. As the user moves through the carousel the background cube view may move indicating the position of the agent thus allowing the manager identify the location should he she need to go to that agent s desk.

Further the virtual view driving system may further provide real time video of agents to the manager . In an embodiment WebRTC may be utilized to enable the agent and the manager to communicate directly. In another embodiment a video call may be arranged to enable the agent and the manager to communicate directly to solve issues and bring back KPIs associated with the agent within limits. The agent having maximum rank or requiring most urgent attention of the manager may be displayed in center of the display . Videos of other agents may be shown to the manager in a carousel view as shown in .

The manager can interact with their agents based on a rank of agents without leaving their desks or even from a remote location getting contextual real time statistics on individual agents allowing managers to intuitively navigate and discover the source of a problem which may be agent originated in a call center.

At step the key performance indicators are compared with corresponding thresholds. According to an embodiment of the present invention each of the KPIs is associated with a threshold value which may be predefined and decided based upon a service level agreement or desired operational efficiency of the contact center. The threshold associated with a KPI may indicate an acceptable value of KPI.

At step it is determined whether any threshold for any key performance indicators of one or more agents has been breached. In an embodiment an operating status of each of the KPI is compared with their respective thresholds. If no threshold has been breached the method returns to step . In an embodiment if no threshold has been breached the virtual view may be driven based upon a default setting for example alphabetically or location wise view of agents . If one or more thresholds have been breached the method proceeds towards step .

For example if threshold associated with an agent for wait time is 20 seconds then if the agent is answering calls within 20 seconds it is fine. Otherwise if the agent takes longer than 20 seconds then the threshold associated with this KPI has been breached by the agent. In an embodiment of the present invention the monitoring and detecting may be performed by the monitoring module .

At step a rank of the one or more agents which are associated with breached thresholds of KPIs is calculated based on predefined rules for example a formula or an algorithm . The calculated rank may indicate a severity level of attention required by the agent. In an embodiment of the present invention an agent having maximum rank indicates an agent requiring most urgent attention of a manger of the contact center. In an embodiment of the present invention the rank may be calculated by the ranking module .

Thereafter at step the display or view of agents is driven based on the calculated rating of agents. In an embodiment the agent having maximum rank may be displayed first. Further a virtual view of other agents may be presented in a carousel view. In an embodiment of the present invention the display may be driven by the driving module . In another embodiment of the present invention the method returns to step to continue the monitoring of the key performance indicators of the agents in the contact center.

Further in an optional step a real time video of an agent may be displayed to the user. For example if the user or manager wants to go in detail or want to directly interact with an agent then the user may select the agent and the real time video of the agent may be displayed to the user. The user may navigate and discover a source of a problem which may be agent originated. The user may also identify the location of the agent and may physically go at his desk if required.

The exemplary systems and methods of this present invention have been described in relation to a contact center. However to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention the preceding description omits a number of known structures and devices. This omission is not to be construed as a limitation of the scope of the claimed invention. Specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. It should however be appreciated that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific detail set forth herein.

Furthermore while the exemplary embodiments of the present invention illustrated herein show the various components of the system collocated certain components of the system can be located remotely at distant portions of a distributed network such as a LAN and or the Internet or within a dedicated system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the system can be combined in to one or more devices such as a switch server and or adjunct or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as an analog and or digital telecommunications network a packet switch network or a circuit switched network.

It will be appreciated from the preceding description and for reasons of computational efficiency that the components of the system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network of components without affecting the operation of the system. For example the various components can be located in a switch such as a PBX and media server gateway in one or more communications devices at one or more users premises or some combination thereof. Similarly one or more functional portions of the system could be distributed between a telecommunications device s and an associated computing device.

Furthermore it should be appreciated the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links or any combination thereof or any other known or later developed element s that is capable of supplying and or communicating data to and from the connected elements. These wired or wireless links can also be secure links and may be capable of communicating encrypted information. Transmission media used as links for example can be any suitable carrier for electrical signals including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics and may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Also while the flowcharts have been discussed and illustrated in relation to a particular sequence of events it should be appreciated that changes additions and omissions to this sequence can occur without materially affecting the operation of the present invention.

A number of variations and modifications of the present invention can be used. It would be possible to provide for some features of the present invention without providing others.

For example in one alternative embodiment the systems and methods of this present invention can be implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hard wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as PLD PLA FPGA PAL special purpose computer any comparable means or the like.

In general any device s or means capable of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of this present invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other hardware known in the art. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory nonvolatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in conjunction with software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this present invention is dependent on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the system the particular function and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the disclosed methods may be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this present invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Although the present invention describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the present invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. Other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are in existence and are considered to be included in the present invention. Moreover the standards and protocols mentioned herein and other similar standards and protocols not mentioned herein are periodically superseded by faster or more effective equivalents having essentially the same functions. Such replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents included in the present invention.

The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes components methods processes systems and or apparatus substantially as depicted and described herein including various embodiments sub combinations and subsets thereof. Those of skill in the art will understand how to make and use the present invention after understanding the present disclosure. The present invention in various embodiments configurations and aspects includes providing devices and processes in the absence of items not depicted and or described herein or in various embodiments configurations or aspects hereof including in the absence of such items as may have been used in previous devices or processes e.g. for improving performance achieving ease and or reducing cost of implementation.

The foregoing discussion of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the present invention to the form or forms disclosed herein. In the foregoing Detailed Description for example various features of the present invention are grouped together in one or more embodiments configurations or aspects for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. The features of the embodiments configurations or aspects of the present invention may be combined in alternate embodiments configurations or aspects other than those discussed above. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment configuration or aspect. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment of the present invention.

Moreover though the description of the present invention has included description of one or more embodiments configurations or aspects and certain variations and modifications other variations combinations and modifications are within the scope of the present invention e.g. as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative embodiments configurations or aspects to the extent permitted including alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps to those claimed whether or not such alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps are disclosed herein and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter.

