---

title: Systems and methods for implementing access control based on location-based cookies
abstract: A communication device may have a set of web cookies designated for a specific location. When the communication device enters the specific location, the set of web cookies, which are designated for the specific location, may be used to customize a web page displayed at the communication device. When the communication device exits the specific location, the set of web cookies, which are designated for the specific location, may be inactivated. Different sets of web cookies may be designated for different locations. For example, a set of web cookies may be designated for home and another set of web cookies may be designated for work. The communication device may activate an appropriate set of web cookies based on the location of the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363323&OS=09363323&RS=09363323
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09363323
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for implementing location based web cookies.

Internet browsers use web cookies to remember and keep track of user interactions with webpages. For example web cookies are used to remember user inputs such as login name and passwords. Web cookies also are used to keep track of user s browsing activities. Thus online service providers may customize webpages using web cookies to improve user experience. Nevertheless there are security and privacy concerns regarding the use of web cookies. A conventional internet browser stores one global set of web cookies without differentiation of locations. The global set of web cookies may be accessed by various internet servers via the internet browser from all locations. Access to the web cookies without restriction may cause security and privacy concerns. Although there are Internet browsers that allow anonymous browsing the anonymous internet browser prevents the use of any web cookies and foregoes the benefit of webpage customization. Therefore there is a need for a system or method that improves security and privacy when using web cookies for internet browsing.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment a set of one or more web cookies may be designated for a specific location. When a communication device enters the specific location the set of web cookies which are designated for the specific location may be activated. When the communication device exits the specific location the set of web cookies which are designated for the specific location may be deactivated. Different sets of web cookies may be designated for different locations. For example a set of web cookies may be designated for home and another set of web cookies may be designated for work. The communication device may activate an appropriate set of web cookies based on the location of the communication device.

System may include a user device and a service provider server in communication over a network . Service provider server may be maintained by an online service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to conduct business using service provider server . For example a user may utilize user device to receive information initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information etc.

User device and service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view service information provided from service provider server via the Internet. Browser application may implement web cookies to remember and keep track of user interaction with web browser.

Browser application may implement location based web cookies based on the location of user device . For example browser application may store different sets of web cookies. Each set of one or more web cookies may be designated for a specific location. The sets of web cookies may be encrypted or password protected to provide additional security. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the payment provider as discussed above. User device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

User device may include applications for collecting environmental data such as geo location data via Global Positioning System GPS signals from geo fencing devices temperature data altitude data humidity data data regarding device movement ambient sound data imaging data via a camera and etc. These environmental data may be utilized to determine a location or environment in which user device is located.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online service provider which may provide online service to user . In this regard service provider server includes one or more service applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate the services and communicate display information at user device . For example service provider server may provide services such as payment transaction banking retail shopping and etc.

Service provider server also may maintain a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with users. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Account information may also include security profiles for users or user devices.

Security applications which may be part of service application or separate may be configured to receive security information from a user device for processing and storage in a service database . Security applications may include one or more applications to process and manage security information from user . As such security applications may store details of security profiles from users or user devices associated secured locations and etc. Security applications may provide security for location based web cookies. For example security applications may provide encryption for location based web cookies. Certain location based web cookies may have restricted access based on the location of user device . Service application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary such as the set up and management user accounts.

At step user device may detect location or environmental information. For example user device may detect WiFi signals Bluetooth signals available communication networks geo fencing signals geographical location via Global Positioning System GPS cellular signals Near Field Communication NFC signals and etc. Further user device may detect date and time device movement ambient sound noise temperature humidity ambient light and etc. User device may determine a location of user device based on the detected location and or environmental information.

In one embodiment user device may send the detected location and or environmental information to service provider server and service provider server may determine a location of user device . A location of user device may be a geographical location or an environmental condition. For example the location of user device may be a proximity to a GPS coordinate. In another example the location of user device may be a location in which user device detects a particular communication network WiFi Bluetooth or Near Field Communication NFC network.

At step user device may determine whether web cookies have been stored for the web site to be visited. For example when a web site was visited previously web cookies may be generated and stored at user device to remember or keep track of user interaction with the visited web site. The web cookies may be text files and may be labeled with the web address of the visited web site. User device may search for web cookies that match the web address to be visited at step .

If web cookies which are associated with the web address or path to be visited are found at step user device may determine whether the web cookies are location based web cookies at step . For example web cookies may selectively be stored in a global folder or location specific folders. Web cookies stored in a location specific folder may be designated to be used in the specific location. Thus if a web cookie is stored in a location specific folder user device may determine that the web cookie is a location specific web cookie. On the other hand if a web cookie is stored in a global folder user device may determine that the web cookie is not a location specific web cookie. Other ways to determine whether the web cookies are location based are also suitable such as having extensions or an indicator within the cookie that designate it as a location based cookie.

In one embodiment based on the location of user device detected in step user device may search for a location specific folder associated with the detected location of user device . If no location specific folder is associated with the detected location of user device user device may determine that no location based cookies are found for the location at step .

In another embodiment global web cookies and location based web cookies may be stored in the same folder. In particular location based web cookies may be labeled with the specific location in which the location based web cookies were generated. Thus user device may determine whether a web cookie is a location based web cookies based on the labeling.

If web cookies are found for the web site to be visited at step and the found web cookies are not location based web cookies user device may determine that the found web cookies are global web cookies that may be activated or implemented in all locations. At step user device may use the global web cookies regardless of the detected location of user device .

For example browser application of user device may request a web page using the web address received at step and may send the global web cookies to a service provider server indicated by the web address e.g. service provider server . Service provider server may receive the request and customize a web page based on the global web cookies. For example service provider server may auto fill forms for the user s convenience. Service provider server also may insert advertisements into the web page based on the user s previous browsing history. Other customization such as the style color and format of the web page also may be implemented based on the web cookies. Service provider server then may send the customized web page to user device to be displayed to the user.

If web cookies are found for the web address to be visited at step and the found web cookies are location based web cookies user device may determine whether the location based cookies match the location of user device detected at step . If so the location based web cookies may be used for the web address at step . For example browser application of user device may request a web page using the web address received at step and may send the location based web cookies to a service provider server indicated by the web address e.g. service provider server . In an embodiment global web cookies may be used in combination with the location based web cookies when user device is in the location.

At step service provider server may receive the request and customize a web page based on the location based web cookies. For example service provider server may insert advertisements into a web page based on the user s previous browsing history at the location. In another example service provider server may auto fill private information into a web page when user device is in a secured home location and location based web cookies for the auto fill are used for the private information. Service provider server may then send the customized web page to user device to be displayed to a user.

In another embodiment step may be executed by service provider server . For example user device may send all web cookies associated with the web address to service provider server . Service provider server may determine whether the web cookies are location based cookies based on the labeling on the web cookies. Service provider server also may receive location information of user device . Thus service provider server may determine which web cookies to use to customize the web page based on the labeling on the web cookies and the location of user device . For example if the received web cookies are location based web cookies and the location of user device matches the labeling on the location based web cookies service provider server may use the location based web cookies to customize the web page.

At step user device may continue to detect or monitor the location of user device . User device may determine whether user device has departed from the location. In one embodiment user device may send location information to service provider server and service provider server may determine whether user device has departed from the location.

If user device has departed from the location the location based web cookies which are associated with the location may be restricted from being used at step . For example user device may stop sending the location based web cookies to service provider server . In an embodiment service provider server may continuously receive location information from user device and when service provider server determines that user device departs from the location service provider server may stop using the location based web cookies to customize the web pages sent to user device .

In one embodiment location based web cookies may be used by an online service to keep track of the progress of user activities such as banking activities or shopping activities. When user device departs from the location the location based web cookies may become unavailable to the online service and the online service may no longer be able to keep track of the progress of user activities. Thus the user may be logged out of the online service when user device departs from the location. This feature of automatic log out based on location provides additional security for the user when the user forgets to log out of the online service.

In an embodiment user device may depart from the location and enter a new location. Another set of location based web cookies may be associated with the new location. Thus the set of location based web cookies associated with the new location may be used to customize the web pages when user device enters the new location. If no location based web cookies are associated with the new location the global web cookies may be used as noted above in step .

Referring now to step if no web cookies are associated with the web address to be visited user device or service provider server may inquire the user whether cookies should be generated to remember user input and interaction with the web site at step . For example if a user enters login ID and password into a web page a pop up window as shown in may appear to inquire whether the user wishes for browser application to remember the login ID and password for the web site.

If the user indicates that the user input should be remembered at step user device or service provider server then may inquire the user whether the user input should be stored in association with a specific location or globally at step . User device may store the web cookies selectively in a global folder or location specific folders. For example when the user agrees to remember the login ID and password a pop up window as shown in may appear to inquire whether the user wishes for browser application to remember the login ID and password just here e.g. a specific location or everywhere e.g. global.

In one embodiment user device may display a description of the location of user device in which the user input is to be remembered. For example if the location is a geographical location of San Jose Calif. the pop up window may display Would you like to remember the input for San Jose Calif. or everywhere If the location is an environmental condition in which a home network is detected the pop up window may display Would you like to remember the input when in the home network or everywhere 

If the user input is to be remembered in a location specific manner user device may generate location based web cookies relating to the user input at step . User device may store the location based web cookies in a location specific folder separate from global web cookies. In another embodiment the location based web cookies may be labeled with location specific information and stored in the same folder as global web cookies.

Location specific folders may be created to store location based web cookies. The location specific folders may be organized in a hierarchical manner. For example a location specific folder may be created for a country under which a location specific folder may be created for a state under which a location specific folder may be created for a city. Web cookies from the appropriate location specific folders may be used based on the location of user device . For example when user device is in San Jose Calif. web cookies from both the folder for San Jose and the folder for California may be used.

If the user input is to be remembered in a non location specific manner user device may generate global web cookies relating to the user input at step . User device may store the global web cookies in a global folder which may be accessible regardless of the location of user device .

By using the above process location based web cookies may be used based on the location of a user device. The user may be allowed to choose whether the web browser should remember user input globally e.g. everywhere or for a specific location. Web pages may be customized accordingly based on the location of the user device. Thus appropriate security and privacy may be implemented for the web browser based on the location of the user device.

A user has a mobile device and is using the mobile device at home. The mobile device is connected to a home network. The mobile device detects that the location is home based on the connection to the home network or by a Global Positioning System GPS . The user uses an internet browser on the mobile device to access an online banking service. The user enters the web address of the online banking service at the internet browser. The mobile device searches and determines whether web cookies associated with the web address are stored with the internet browser. Assuming that no web cookies associated with the web address are stored the mobile device may send a request for service to the online banking service via the internet.

In response to the request the online banking service determines that no web cookies are received from the mobile device and sends a standard web page to the mobile device. The standard web page includes fill in areas for the user to enter a login name and a password associated with the user s banking account. The user enters a login name and a password associated with the banking account in the standard web page. Because no web cookies are stored for the web address the standard web page prompts the user whether the user input should be remembered. A pop up window appears at the internet browser to ask whether the user would like to remember the login name and the password for the web site.

If the user agrees to remember the login name and the password for the web site another pop up window appears at the internet browser to ask whether the user would like to remember the login name and the password for home or everywhere. If the user selects to have the login name and the password remembered only for home the mobile device may generate location based web cookies associated with the web site including the login name and the password. The location based web cookies may be labeled for the home location or stored in a location specific folder designated for the home location. Further user inputs and interactions with the online banking service occurred at the home location also may be remembered by generating additional location based web cookies. Location based web cookies also are used to keep track of the progress of the online banking session.

When the user finishes with the online banking session the user may forget to log out of the online banking session. As such the user leaves home without logging out of the online banking session. The mobile device detects that the mobile device has departed from the home location and restricts access to the location based web cookies designated for the home location. Thus the online banking service can no longer access the location based web cookies and automatically log the user out of the online banking session.

When the user visits the online banking service from home again the next day the mobile device detects that the mobile device is at home and that the location based web cookies designated for the home location are stored from previous sessions. The mobile device sends these location based web cookies to the online banking service. The online banking service then customizes web pages to improve user experience. For example the online banking service auto fills login name and password for the user. Further advertisements for goods and services near the home location also are inserted into the web pages. Thus location based web cookies may improve security and user experience.

A user uses a laptop computer at home to shop for a gift for the user s child. The user visits online merchants and web cookies are generated from the user s browsing activities. The user sets the internet browser to generate location based web cookies for the home location. The location based web cookies generated from the online shopping are stored in a location specific folder for the home location. While the user is gift shopping at home the online merchants use the location based web cookies to insert advertisements for children s gifts into web pages viewed by the user.

The user finishes shopping and leaves home for work. The user also uses the laptop computer at work. The laptop computer detects that it is no longer in the home location. The laptop computer restricts location based web cookies designated for the home location from being used at work. When the user uses the laptop computer at work web cookies generated at the home location are not used and advertisements for children s gifts are not inserted into web pages viewed by the user at work. Thus location based web cookies may provide appropriate privacy for the user.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

