---

title: Antisense polynucleotides to induce exon skipping and methods of treating dystrophies
abstract: Antisense polynucleotides and their use in pharmaceutical compositions to induce exon skipping in targeted exons of the gamma sarcoglycan gene are provided, along with methods of preventing or treating dystrophic diseases such as Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy. One aspect the disclosure provides an isolated antisense polynucleotide wherein the polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to an exon target region of a gamma sarcoglycan RNA, wherein the exon is selected from the group consisting of exon 4 (SEQ ID NO:1), exon 5 (SEQ ID NO: 2), exon 6 (SEQ ID NO: 3), exon 7 (SEQ ID NO: 4) and a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the antisense polynucleotide cannot form an RNase H substrate, and in further embodiments the antisense polynucleotide comprises a modified polynucleotide backbone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09499817&OS=09499817&RS=09499817
owner: THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
number: 09499817
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130906
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase of PCT US2013 058636 filed Sep. 6 2013 which claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 697 766 filed Sep. 6 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Number HL061322 and U54AR052646 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to antisense polynucleotides and their use in pharmaceutical compositions to induce exon skipping in targeted exons of the gamma sarcoglycan gene SGCG useful in treating various forms of Muscular Dystrophy.

Muscular Dystrophy MD is a group of more than 30 genetic disorders characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and degeneration. Limb girdle Muscular Dystrophy LGMD is an autosomal class of MD. The most severely affected muscles in LGMD are those of limbs including arms and legs as well as the trunk muscles affecting posture and breathing. MD patients are born with normal muscle function but develop heart failure and breathing problems due to the loss of mass and strength of cardiac and respiratory muscle. Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C is caused by mutations in the sarcoglycan Sgcg gene Noguchi et al. Science 270 819 822 1995 McNally et al. Am J Hum Genet 59 1040 1047 1996 Lasa et al. Eur J Hum Genet 6 396 399 1998 . sarcoglycan is a dystrophin associated protein Allikian et al. Traffic 8 177 183 2007 . Dystrophin is a large rod shaped cytoplasmic protein found along the inner surface of the plasma membrane of muscle cells. Dystrophin is encoded by the DMD gene which is the largest gene known so far spanning 2.4 MB on the X chromosome Hoffman et al. Biotechnology 24 457 466 1992 . Mutations in the DMD gene are the most common cause of muscular dystrophy affecting 1 in every 3500 newborn boys worldwide Moser Hum Genet 66 17 40 1984 .

The dystrophin complex localizes at the muscle membrane known as the sarcolemma and connects intracellular actin bundles to the extracellular matrix. The dystrophin complex plays a critical role in stabilizing the sarcolemma during muscle contraction. Mutation or loss of dystrophin or the associated sarcoglycans leads to destabilization of the sarcolemma and subsequent events such as muscle cell injury muscle cell necrosis and fibrotic or fatty tissue deposition.

Mice and humans have a highly conserved dystrophin complex. The Sgcg null mouse model Sgcg was the first model established for LGMD by deleting exon 2 of Sgcg resulting in a null allele Hack et al. J Cell Biol 142 1279 1287 1998 . sarcoglycan mutant mice develop progressive disease pathology that resembles that of LGMD2C patients. Sgcg mice are born in the expected Mendelian ratios. By 20 weeks of age however half of the Sgcg mice die and the surviving mice weigh significantly less than wild type littermates. Dystrophic changes of skeletal muscle such as broad variation in fiber size immune cell infiltration and fibrotic and fatty tissue deposition are evident by 3 weeks of age but become prominent around 8 weeks of age. Consistent with the disease progression pattern in patients cardiomyopathy in Sgcg also develops at later stage. At 20 weeks of age Sgcg hearts display remarkable fibrosis and reduced cardiac function.

Disruption of the dystrophin complex makes the muscle membrane more fragile and more susceptible to membrane tears when subject to the shearing force during contraction. As a result of these tears dystrophin or sarcoglycan null skeletal muscles show increased permeability that allows soluble enzymes such as creatine kinase to exit from the cell and blood proteins such as albumin or ions such as calcium to enter the cell. Initially the membrane repairing machinery including dysferlin family proteins is activated to reseal the damaged membrane Bansal Nature 423 168 172 2003 Doherty et al. Development 132 5565 5575 2005 . However this blurring of cell environment boundary and increased cytoplasmic calcium content are associated with a series of harmful cellular events such as increased reactive oxygen species activation of protease cascade and eventually lead to necrotic cell death Goldstein et al. J Gen Physiol 136 29 34 2010 .

Loss of muscle fibers also activates muscle stem cells called satellite cells. Satellite cells divide and attempt to repair injured muscle fibers. As myoblasts only have limited dividing potential the degeneration trend gradually overcomes the regeneration efforts resulting in irreversible muscle loss. The loss of muscle bulk is accompanied by replacement of connective and fatty tissue. Like humans mutant mice also develop cardiomyopathy as a result of loss of cardiomyocytes and fibrotic tissue deposition. Hearts with cardiomyopathy fail to pump properly which results in a failure to deliver oxygen and nutrients to the tissue.

The most common causes of muscular dystrophy are mutations in the dystrophin gene. Different mutations in dystrophin lead to different severities. For example a mutation which shifts the reading frame such as the deletion of exon 43 to exon 48 Doriguzzi et al. Eur Neurol 33 454 460 1993 leads to a much more severe disease than one with a larger deletion spanning exon 13 to 48 Passos Bueno et al. Hum Mol Genet 3 919 922 1994 . The frame shift in the former case results in loss of the C terminus of dystrophin which is responsible for normal localization of sarcoglycans and other dystrophin associated proteins. Furthermore the level of dystrophin protein is also greatly reduced possibly due to nonsense mediated decay or improper protein folding and subsequent degradation. In the latter case the large deletion reduces the number of spectrin repeats in the middle region of the protein while keeping the crucial C terminus and N terminus intact. This suggests that internally truncated protein can be partially functional. These milder mutations are known as forms of Becker Muscular Dystrophy BMD .

Most eukaryotic genes are made of protein coding exons and non coding introns. Splicing is required to connect exons to form mature mRNA. To achieve a proper splicing pattern recognition of splice donor splice acceptor and exonic splicing enhancer ESE sites by the splicing machinery are required. Blocking essential splice sites by antisense polynucleotides AONs induces exclusion of certain exons from the mature mRNA Aartsma Rus et al. RNA 13 1609 1624 2007 . This event is referred to as exon skipping.

Phase I and phase II clinic trials of therapeutic exon skipping have been carried out proving the safety of AON administration and efficiency of dystrophin restoration Bertoni Front Biosci 13 517 527 2008 Cirak et al. Lancet 378 595 605 2011 . In the phase II trial 19 patients aged from 5 15 participated in the study. They were divided into multiple groups that received escalated doses of AVI 4568 the AON drug via weekly intravenous infusion for 12 weeks. No serious drug related adverse effect was observed. Targeted exon skipping was observed in all patients and new dystrophin production was detected in a dose dependent manner. The 3 patients with greatest response to the drug had 15 21 and 55 dystrophin positive fibers. Consistent with the reproduction of functional dystrophin dystrophin associated proteins were also found restored at the plasma membrane of muscle cells.

The disclosure is directed to one or more antisense polynucleotides and their use in pharmaceutical compositions in a strategy to induce exon skipping in the gamma sarcoglycan gene in patients suffering from Limb girdle Muscular Dystrophy 2C i.e. LGMD2C or in patients at risk of such a disease. The disclosure also provides methods of preventing or treating muscular dystrophy e.g. LGMD2C by exon skipping in the gamma sarcoglycan gene using antisense polynucleotides.

One aspect the disclosure provides an isolated antisense polynucleotide wherein the polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to an exon target region of a gamma sarcoglycan RNA wherein the exon is selected from the group consisting of exon 4 SEQ ID NO 1 exon 5 SEQ ID NO 2 exon 6 SEQ ID NO 3 exon 7 SEQ ID NO 4 and a combination thereof. In some embodiments the antisense polynucleotide cannot form an RNase H substrate and in further embodiments the antisense polynucleotide comprises a modified polynucleotide backbone. In some embodiments the modified backbone is a 2 O methyl oligoribonucleotide.

In further embodiments the disclosure contemplates that the modified polynucleotide backbone comprises a modified moiety substituted for at least one sugar of at least one of the polynucleotides. In a specific embodiment the modified moiety is a Morpholino.

It is additionally contemplated by the disclosure that in some embodiments the modified polynucleotide backbone of the polynucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleotide linkage and in some embodiments the modified internucleotide linkage comprises a modified phosphate. The modified phosphate in various embodiments is selected from the group consisting of a methyl phosphonate a methyl phosphorothioate a phosphoromorpholidate a phosphoropiperazidate and a phosphoroamidate.

The disclosure also provides embodiments wherein the polynucleotide comprises a peptide nucleic acid.

In still further embodiments it is contemplated that the polynucleotide is chemically linked to one or more conjugates that enhance the activity cellular distribution or cellular uptake of the antisense polynucleotide. In related embodiments the conjugate is a peptide that enhances cellular uptake and in further embodiments the peptide is selected from the group consisting of a nuclear localization signal NLS HIV 1 TAT protein a peptide comprising an integrin binding domain an oligolysine an adenovirus fiber protein and a peptide comprising a receptor mediated endocytosis RME domain.

In another aspect of the disclosure a pharmaceutical composition is provided comprising the antisense polynucleotide as described herein and a physiologically compatible phosphate buffer. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition further comprises an additional antisense polynucleotide wherein the additional polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to an exon of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid.

A further aspect of the disclosure provides a method of inducing exon skipping of a gamma sarcoglycan RNA comprising delivering to a cell a therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective amount of the antisense polynucleotide or a composition of the disclosure thereby inducing exon skipping of the gamma sarcoglycan RNA.

In some embodiments the cell is a human muscle cell and in further embodiments the human muscle cell is in a patient. The patient in various embodiments is a patient that has muscular dystrophy. In further embodiments the muscular dystrophy is Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C .

In still another aspect of the disclosure a method of ameliorating Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C in a patient in need thereof is provided comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a composition of the disclosure thereby ameliorating LGMD2C.

The disclosure also provides a method of inhibiting the progression of dystrophic pathology associated with LGMD2C in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a composition of the disclosure thereby inhibiting the progression of dystrophic pathology.

In some aspects the disclosure provides a method of improving muscle function in a patient suffering from Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a composition of the disclosure thereby improving muscle function. In some embodiments the improvement is a cardiac muscle improvement and in further embodiments the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in muscle strength. In further embodiments the improvement in muscle strength is an improvement in respiratory muscle strength and in additional embodiments the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in motor stability. In any of the embodiments of the disclosure the improvement in respiratory muscle strength is measured as reduced nocturnal desaturation events or improved pulmonary function testing. In any of the embodiments of the disclosure the improvement in motor stability results in an improved time to standing or climbing stairs relative to previously measured time to standing or climbing stairs.

The improvement in motor stability in some embodiments results in an improved six minute walk test by the patient relative to a previously measured six minute walk test by that patient. Additional improvements contemplated by the disclosure are assessed via improved histopathology or improved noninvasive imaging evidence such as reduced fibrofatty infiltration and reduced evidence of scarring. Cardiac muscle improvement as documented by improved left and right ventricular function reduced right and left ventricular diameters and reduced evidence of cardiac damage is also contemplated.

Another aspect of the disclosure is drawn to a kit comprising the antisense polynucleotides as described herein optionally in a container and a package insert package label instructions or other labeling. In some embodiments the kit further comprises an additional polynucleotide wherein the additional polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to an exon in a gamma sarcoglycan RNA.

Additional aspects and embodiments of the disclosure are described in the following enumerated paragraphs.

1. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a mini gamma sarcoglycan protein comprising a deletion of an exon selected from the group consisting of exon 4 SEQ ID NO 1 exon 5 SEQ ID NO 2 exon 6 SEQ ID NO 3 exon 7 SEQ ID NO 4 and a combination thereof.

3. The composition of paragraph 2 wherein the viral vector is selected from the group consisting of a herpesvirus and an adenovirus.

4. The composition of paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 wherein the viral vector is adeno associated virus 9 AAV 9 .

6. The composition of any one of paragraphs 2 4 wherein the deletion comprises exon 4 exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7.

8. The composition of any one of paragraphs 2 4 wherein the deletion consists of exon 4 exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7.

9. An isolated mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide wherein the gamma sarcoglycan comprises at least one deletion in an exon selected from the group consisting of exon 4 exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7.

10. The mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of paragraph 9 that comprises a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 7 or SEQ ID NO 8.

11. An isolated polypeptide that is at least about 75 at least about 80 at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 at least about 99 or 100 identical to the mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of paragraph 9 or paragraph 10.

12. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of any one of paragraphs 9 11 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

13. The composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 further comprising an additional therapeutic agent.

14. The composition of paragraph 13 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of a glucocorticoid steroid an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor blocker an anti fibrotic agent and a combination thereof.

15. The composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 14 further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

16. A host cell comprising the polynucleotide of paragraph 1 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8.

17. A method of expressing a mini sarcoglycan protein in a cell the method comprising contacting the cell with the isolated polynucleotide of paragraph 1 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 13 under conditions that result in expression of the mini sarcoglycan protein in the cell.

23. The method of paragraph 22 wherein the muscular dystrophy is Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C .

29. A method of ameliorating Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the polynucleotide of paragraph 1 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 15 thereby ameliorating LGMD2C.

30. A method of inhibiting the progression of dystrophic pathology associated with LGMD2C in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the polynucleotide of paragraph 1 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 15 thereby inhibiting the progression of dystrophic pathology.

31. A method of improving muscle function in a patient suffering from Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C LGMD2C comprising the step of administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the polynucleotide of paragraph 1 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 15 thereby improving muscle function.

33. The method of paragraph 31 or paragraph 32 wherein the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in muscle strength.

34. The method of paragraph 33 wherein the improvement in muscle strength is an improvement in respiratory muscle strength.

35. The method of paragraph 29 or paragraph 30 wherein the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in motor stability.

36. The method of paragraph 35 wherein the improvement in motor stability results in an improved six minute walk test by the patient relative to a previously measured six minute walk test by that patient.

37. A kit comprising the polynucleotide of paragraph 1 the polypeptide of any one of paragraphs 9 11 or the composition of any one of paragraphs 2 8 or 12 optionally in a container and a package insert package label instructions or other labeling.

39. The kit of paragraph 38 wherein the additional therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of a glucocorticoid steroid an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor blocker an anti fibrotic agent and a combination thereof.

Mutations in the gene encoding sarcoglycan Sgcg lead to muscular dystrophy a disease with muscle degeneration failed regeneration and muscle weakness. One strategy examined herein for the treatment of genetic forms of muscular dystrophy is exon skipping. Exclusion of certain exon s from final transcripts or exon skipping can be achieved by blocking essential splice sites using one or more antisense polynucleotides AONs . By inducing splicing around mutation bearing exons an internally deleted but potentially functional protein is produced. sarcoglycan is a membrane associated protein that is part of the dystrophin protein complex a complex that stabilizes the muscle membrane during muscle contraction. The Sgcg gene is composed of 8 exons. The most common mutation in Sgcg is the deletion of thymidine 525 in exon 6 525 T causing the production of 19 missense amino acids and a premature stop codon. Skipping exons 4 7 restores the proper protein reading frame resulting in an internally truncated sarcoglycan protein. This truncated form of sarcoglycan reduces the full length protein from 291 amino acids to 157 amino acids and retains the intracellular region transmembrane domain and the crucial cysteine rich motif at the carboxy terminus.

The sarcoglycan gene is conserved between human mouse and and both fly and mouse models of sarcoglycan gene mutations have previously been generated. The amino acid sequence of human gamma sarcoglycan is set forth in SEQ ID NO 5 while the amino acid sequence of mouse gamma sarcoglycan is set forth in SEQ ID NO 6. The truncated murine or human sarcoglycan resulting from skipping exon 4 7 has been termed mini Sgcg. The amino acid sequence of human mini Sgcg resulting from skipping exon 4 7 is set forth in SEQ ID NO 7 while the amino acid sequence of mouse mini Sgcg resulting from skipping exon 4 7 is set forth in SEQ ID NO 8. The disclosure also contemplates in various embodiments human or mouse mini Sgcg polypeptides in which one or more of exon 4 exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7 are deleted in any combination. Thus mini Sgcg polypeptides are contemplated in which exon 4 7 are variously deleted including but not limited to combinations in which i exon 4 and exon 5 are deleted ii exon 5 and exon 6 are deleted iii exon 4 and exon 6 are deleted iv exon 4 and exon 7 are deleted v exon 5 and exon 7 are deleted vi exon 6 and exon 7 are deleted vii exon 4 exon 5 and exon 6 are deleted viii exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7 are deleted ix exon 4 exon 6 and exon 7 are deleted x exon 4 is deleted xi exon 5 is deleted xii exon 6 is deleted or xiii exon 7 is deleted. The disclosure also contemplates corresponding polynucleotides that encode each of the foregoing mini Sgcg polypeptides.

In some aspects the disclosure provides an isolated mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide wherein the gamma sarcoglycan comprises at least one deletion in an exon selected from the group consisting of exon 4 exon 5 exon 6 and exon 7. In some embodiments the mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of the disclosure comprises a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 7 or SEQ ID NO 8.

In additional aspects the disclosure provides an isolated polypeptide that is at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 99 or 100 identical to a mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of the disclosure. In further aspects the disclosure provides an isolated polypeptide that is about 75 about 80 about 85 about 90 about 95 or about 99 identical to a mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of the disclosure. In still further aspects the disclosure provides an isolated polypeptide that is at least 90 to about 100 or at least 95 to about 100 or at least about 95 to about 99 identical to a mini gamma sarcoglycan polypeptide of the disclosure.

Data provided herein demonstrates that the mini Sgcg protein is produced in transgenic where it localizes normally to the plasma membrane. The structures of the full length sarcoglycan and the truncated protein after exon skipping are shown in respectively.

The disclosure thus provides one or more isolated antisense polynucleotide s wherein the one or more polynucleotide s specifically hybridizes to an exon target region of a gamma sarcoglycan RNA wherein the exon is selected from the group consisting of exon 4 SEQ ID NO 1 exon 5 SEQ ID NO 2 exon 6 SEQ ID NO 3 exon 7 SEQ ID NO 4 and a combination thereof.

As used herein hybridization means an interaction between two or three strands of nucleic acids by hydrogen bonds in accordance with the rules of Watson Crick DNA complementarity Hoogstein binding or other sequence specific binding known in the art. Hybridization can be performed under different stringency conditions known in the art. Specifically hybridize as used herein is hybridization that allows for a stabilized duplex between polynucleotide strands that are complementary or substantially complementary. For example a polynucleotide strand having 21 nucleotide units can base pair with another polynucleotide of 21 nucleotide units yet only 19 bases on each strand are complementary or substantially complementary such that the duplex has 19 base pairs. The remaining bases may for example exist as 5 and or 3 overhangs. Further within the duplex 100 complementarity is not required substantial complementarity is allowable within a duplex. Substantial complementarity refers to 75 or greater complementarity. For example a mismatch in a duplex consisting of 19 base pairs results in 94.7 complementarity rendering the duplex substantially complementary.

It is noted here that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided an antisense polynucleotide capable of binding to a selected target to induce exon skipping. To induce exon skipping in exons of the gamma sarcoglycan gene transcript the antisense polynucleotide is selected based on the exon sequences shown in Tables 1 and 2. The disclosure also provides a combination or cocktail of two or more antisense polynucleotides capable of binding to a selected target or targets to induce exon skipping. The exon skipping contemplated herein induces exclusion of exons 4 5 6 and or 7 so as to generate an in frame internally truncated gamma sarcoglycan protein. Excluding exons 4 5 6 and 7 results in the generation of an internally truncated protein lacking 135 amino acids while deleting exon 5 results in an internally deleted in frame protein lacking 40 amino acids. The internally truncated proteins termed mini Sgcg retains the capacity to interact with dystrophin and its associated proteins and stabilize cardiac and skeletal muscle cells.

Within the context of the disclosure preferred target site s are those involved in mRNA splicing i.e. splice donor sites splice acceptor sites or exonic splicing enhancer elements . Splicing branch points and exon recognition sequences or splice enhancers are also potential target sites for modulation of mRNA splicing.

Thus in various embodiments one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen or more antisense polynucleotides are used to induce exon skipping of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid. The choice of the number of antisense polynucleotides can be determined empirically by one of ordinary skill in the art. The person of ordinary skill can individually test the relative ability of compositions comprising one two three four or more antisense polynucleotides to produce a protein product of interest in vitro. Briefly and in one specific embodiment a composition comprising a single antisense polynucleotide that is designed to specifically hybridize i.e. block a splice acceptor site in exon 4 of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid is added to a culture of fibroblasts obtained from a patient harboring a mutation in gamma sarcoglycan. Next the fibroblasts are induced to adopt a myogenic lineage via forced MyoD expression see Example 2 for details and the resulting myotubes are tested for surface expression of a mini Sgcg protein via for example and without limitation an immunofluorescence experiment. Further immunofluorescent analysis of the myotubes can be conducted to identify whether additional sarcoglycans i.e. and sarcoglycan are co localized with mini Sgcg in myotubes. Such co localization of the members of the sarcoglycan complex associated with muscle membranes indicates that the mini Sgcg that is produced following administration of the composition comprising a single antisense polynucleotide is able to effectively induce exon skipping of the gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid to result in a truncated protein that retained its ability to associate with the other members of the sarcoglycan complex as well as embed in a muscle membrane. Similar experiments may be conducted with compositions that individually comprise two three four five or more antisense polynucleotides each designed to specifically hybridize to an exon of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid.

To identify and select antisense polynucleotides suitable for use in the modulation of exon skipping a nucleic acid sequence whose function is to be modulated must first be identified. This may be for example a gene or mRNA transcribed form the gene whose expression is associated with a particular disorder or disease state or a nucleic acid molecule from an infectious agent. Within the context of the disclosure suitable target site s are those involved in mRNA splicing e.g. splice donor sites splice acceptor sites or exonic splicing enhancer elements . Splicing branch points and exon recognition sequences or splice enhancers are also potential target sites for modulation of mRNA splicing contemplated by the disclosure.

Those of skill in the art can readily design antisense polynucleotides according to the present disclosure. For example general teachings in the art include but are not limited to Aartsma Rus et al. Methods Mol Biol. 867 117 29 2012 Aartsma Rus et al. Methods Mol Biol. 867 97 116 2012 van Roon Mom et al. Methods Mol Biol. 867 79 96 2012 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. General guidelines also include attempting to avoid 3 consecutive G or C nucleotides choosing lengths and sequences that favor self structure hairpinning will be avoided and avoiding those sequences likely to form primer dimers. In some embodiments an antisense polynucleotide of the disclosure is one that is designed to specifically hybridize to an exon or an intron exon boundary such that the antisense polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to a sequence that is completely within an exon of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid or about one nucleotide of the antisense polynucleotide spans said intron exon boundary when the antisense polynucleotide is specifically hybridized to the gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid. In some embodiments wherein the antisense polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to a sequence that is completely within an exon it is contemplated that a terminus of the antisense polynucleotide is about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more nucleotides from a terminus of the exon. The intron exon boundary for each of exons 4 5 6 and 7 is shown in Table 1. In further embodiments an antisense polynucleotide of the disclosure is one that is designed to specifically hybridize to an intron exon boundary of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid such that about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more nucleotides of the antisense polynucleotide span said intron exon boundary. It is understood that a nucleotide can span the intron exon boundary on either the exon side or intron side. Thus an antisense polynucleotide that specifically and predominantly hybridizes to intronic sequence and only hybridizes to one nucleotide of an adjoining exon would span the intron exon boundary by one nucleotide. Similarly an antisense polynucleotide that specifically hybridizes to exonic sequence and only hybridizes to one nucleotide of an adjoining intron would span the intron exon boundary by one nucleotide. In any of the aforementioned embodiments the antisense polynucleotide is at least about 10 nucleotides and up to about 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 or more nucleotides in length. Lengths of antisense polynucleotides contemplated by the disclosure are discussed in more detail below.

In some aspects the disclosure provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense polynucleotide to induce exon skipping of a gamma sarcoglycan nucleic acid such that a mini Sgcg protein is produced that has the ability to a effectively associate with other members of the sarcoglycan complex i.e. and sarcoglycan and b correctly embed in a muscle membrane. In some embodiments methods described herein result in the restoration of a sarcoglycan at a muscle membrane surface such that about 1 of the gamma sarcoglycan protein is restored relative to the amount of gamma sarcoglycan protein at a muscle membrane in the absence of administration of the pharmaceutical composition. In further embodiments methods described herein result in the restoration of a sarcoglycan protein at the muscle membrane surface such that about 2 about 3 about 4 about 5 about 6 about 7 about 8 about 9 about 10 about 11 about 12 about 13 about 14 about 15 about 16 about 17 about 18 about 19 about 20 about 21 about 22 about 23 about 24 about 25 about 26 about 27 about 28 about 29 about 30 about 31 about 32 about 33 about 34 about 35 about 36 about 37 about 38 about 39 about 40 about 41 about 42 about 43 about 44 about 45 about 46 about 47 about 48 about 49 about 50 about 51 about 52 about 53 about 54 about 55 about 56 about 57 about 58 about 59 about 60 about 61 about 62 about 63 about 64 about 65 about 66 about 67 about 68 about 69 about 70 about 71 about 72 about 73 about 74 about 75 about 76 about 77 about 78 about 79 about 80 about 81 about 82 about 83 about 84 about 85 about 86 about 87 about 88 about 89 about 90 about 91 about 92 about 93 about 94 about 95 about 96 about 97 about 98 about 99 about 2 fold about 3 fold about 4 fold about 5 fold about 6 fold about 7 fold about 8 fold about 9 fold about 10 fold or more of the gamma sarcoglycan protein is restored relative to the amount of gamma sarcoglycan protein at the muscle membrane in the absence of administration of the pharmaceutical composition. Such restoration of gamma sarcoglycan protein at the muscle membrane can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art by for example and without limitation obtaining a muscle biopsy from the patient and performing immunofluorescence with an antibody that has specific binding affinity for mini Sgcg protein.

Products uses and methods of the disclosure comprise one or more polynucleotides. As used herein a polynucleotide is an oligomer comprised of nucleotides. A polynucleotide may be comprised of DNA RNA modified forms thereof or a combination thereof.

The term nucleotide or its plural as used herein is interchangeable with modified forms as discussed herein and otherwise known in the art. In certain instances the art uses the term nucleobase which embraces naturally occurring nucleotides as well as modifications of nucleotides that can be polymerized. Thus nucleotide or nucleobase means the naturally occurring nucleobases adenine A guanine G cytosine C thymine T and uracil U as well as non naturally occurring nucleobases such as xanthine diaminopurine 8 oxo N6 methyladenine 7 deazaxanthine 7 deazaguanine N4 N4 ethanocytosin N N ethano 2 6 diaminopurine 5 methylcytosine mC 5 C C alkynyl cytosine 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil pseudoisocytosine 2 hydroxy 5 methyl 4 tr iazolopyridin isocytosine isoguanine inosine and the non naturally occurring nucleobases described in Benner et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 432 272 and Susan M. Freier and Karl Heinz Altmann 1997 Nucleic Acids Research vol. 25 pp 4429 4443. The term nucleobase also includes not only the known purine and pyrimidine heterocycles but also heterocyclic analogues and tautomers thereof. Further naturally and non naturally occurring nucleobases include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 687 808 Merigan et al. in Chapter 15 by Sanghvi in Antisense Research and Application Ed. S. T. Crooke and B. Lebleu CRC Press 1993 in Englisch et al. 1991 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 30 613 722 see especially pages 622 and 623 and in the Concise Encyclopedia of Polymer Science and Engineering J. I. Kroschwitz Ed. John Wiley Sons 1990 pages 858 859 Cook Anti Cancer Drug Design 1991 6 585 607 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . In various aspects polynucleotides also include one or more nucleosidic bases or base units which include compounds such as heterocyclic compounds that can serve like nucleobases including certain universal bases that are not nucleosidic bases in the most classical sense but serve as nucleosidic bases. Universal bases include 3 nitropyrrole optionally substituted indoles e.g. 5 nitroindole and optionally substituted hypoxanthine. Other desirable universal bases include pyrrole and diazole or triazole derivatives including those universal bases known in the art.

Polynucleotides may also include modified nucleobases. A modified base is understood in the art to be one that can pair with a natural base e.g. adenine guanine cytosine uracil and or thymine and or can pair with a non naturally occurring base. Exemplary modified bases are described in EP 1 072 679 and WO 97 12896 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Modified nucleobases include without limitation 5 methylcytosine 5 me C 5 hydroxymethyl cytosine xanthine hypoxanthine 2 aminoadenine 6 methyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine 2 propyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine 2 thiouracil 2 thiothymine and 2 thiocytosine 5 halouracil and cytosine 5 propynyl uracil and cytosine and other alkynyl derivatives of pyrimidine bases 6 azo uracil cytosine and thymine 5 uracil pseudouracil 4 thiouracil 8 halo 8 amino 8 thiol 8 thioalkyl 8 hydroxyl and other 8 substituted adenines and guanines 5 halo particularly 5 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl and other 5 substituted uracils and cytosines 7 methylguanine and 7 methyladenine 2 F adenine 2 amino adenine 8 azaguanine and 8 azaadenine 7 deazaguanine and 7 deazaadenine and 3 deazaguanine and 3 deazaadenine. Further modified bases include tricyclic pyrimidines such as phenoxazine cytidine 1H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzoxazin 2 3H one phenothiazine cytidine 1H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzothiazin 2 3H one G clamps such as a substituted phenoxazine cytidine e.g. 9 2 aminoethoxy H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzoxazin 2 3H one carbazole cytidine 2H pyrimido 4 5 b indol 2 one pyridoindole cytidine H pyrido 3 2 4 5 pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 2 one . Modified bases may also include those in which the purine or pyrimidine base is replaced with other heterocycles for example 7 deaza adenine 7 deazaguanosine 2 aminopyridine and 2 pyridone. Additional nucleobases include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 687 808 those disclosed in The Concise Encyclopedia Of Polymer Science And Engineering pages 858 859 Kroschwitz J. I. ed. John Wiley Sons 1990 those disclosed by Englisch et al. 1991 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 30 613 and those disclosed by Sanghvi Y. S. Chapter 15 Antisense Research and Applications pages 289 302 Crooke S. T. and Lebleu B. ed. CRC Press 1993. Certain of these bases are useful for increasing the binding affinity of the polynucleotide and include 5 substituted pyrimidines 6 azapyrimidines and N 2 N 6 and O 6 substituted purines including 2 aminopropyladenine 5 propynyluracil and 5 propynylcytosine. 5 methylcytosine substitutions have been shown to increase nucleic acid duplex stability by 0.6 1.2 C. and are in certain aspects combined with 2 O methoxyethyl sugar modifications. See U.S. Pat. No. 3 687 808 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 845 205 5 130 302 5 134 066 5 175 273 5 367 066 5 432 272 5 457 187 5 459 255 5 484 908 5 502 177 5 525 711 5 552 540 5 587 469 5 594 121 5 596 091 5 614 617 5 645 985 5 830 653 5 763 588 6 005 096 5 750 692 and 5 681 941 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Modified polynucleotides are contemplated for use wherein both one or more sugar and or one or more internucleotide linkage of the nucleotide units in the polynucleotide is replaced with non naturally occurring sugars i.e. sugars other than ribose or deoxyribose or internucleotide linkages respectively. In one aspect this embodiment contemplates a peptide nucleic acid PNA . In PNA compounds the sugar backbone of a polynucleotide is replaced with an amide containing e.g. peptide bonds between N 2 aminoethyl glycine units backbone. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 539 082 5 714 331 and 5 719 262 and Nielsen et al. Science 1991 254 1497 1500 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Modified polynucleotides may also contain one or more substituted sugar groups. In one aspect a modification of the sugar includes Locked Nucleic Acids LNAs in which the 2 hydroxyl group is linked to the 3 or 4 carbon atom of the sugar ring thereby forming a bicyclic sugar group. The linkage is in certain aspects a methylene CH group bridging the 2 oxygen atom and the 4 carbon atom wherein n is 1 or 2. LNAs and preparation thereof are described in WO 98 39352 and WO 99 14226 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

To avoid degradation of pre mRNA during duplex formation with the antisense polynucleotides the antisense polynucleotides used in the method may be adapted to minimize or prevent cleavage by endogenous RNase H. This property is advantageous because the treatment of the RNA with the unmethylated polynucleotides either intracellularly or in crude extracts that contain RNase H leads to degradation of the pre mRNA antisense polynucleotide duplexes. Any form of modified antisense polynucleotide that is resistant to such degradation or does not induce such degradation is contemplated by the disclosure. Non limiting examples of antisense molecules which when duplexed with RNA are not cleaved by cellular RNase H are polynucleotides comprising 2 O methyl derivatives of nucleotides. 2 O methyl oligoribonucleotides are very stable in a cellular environment and in animal tissues and their duplexes with RNA have higher Tvalues than their ribo or deoxyribo counterparts.

Antisense polynucleotides that do not activate RNase H can be made in accordance with known techniques see for example and without limitation U.S. Pat. No. 5 149 797 . Such antisense polynucleotides which may be deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide sequences simply contain any structural modification which sterically hinders or prevents binding of RNase H to a duplex molecule containing the polynucleotide as one member thereof which structural modification does not substantially hinder or disrupt duplex formation. Because the portions of the polynucleotide involved in duplex formation are substantially different from those portions involved in RNase H binding thereto numerous antisense molecules that do not activate RNase H are available. Activation is used in this sense to refer to RNase H degradation whether as a result of a substrate not being susceptible to such degradation or such substrate failing to induce degradation. For example such antisense molecules may be polynucleotides wherein at least one or all of the inter nucleotide bridging phosphate residues are modified phosphates such as methyl phosphonates methyl phosphorothioates phosphoromorpholidates phosphoropiperazidates and or phosphoramidates. For example every other one of the internucleotide bridging phosphate residues may be modified as described. In another non limiting example such antisense polynucleotides are polynucleotides wherein at least one or all of the nucleotides contain a 2 carbon bound to a lower alkyl moiety e.g. C C linear or branched saturated or unsaturated alkyl such as methyl ethyl ethenyl propyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl and isopropyl . For example every other one of the nucleotides may be modified as described.

Methods of making polynucleotides of a predetermined sequence are well known. See e.g. Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd ed. 1989 and F. Eckstein ed. Oligonucleotides and Analogues 1st Ed. Oxford University Press New York 1991 . Solid phase synthesis methods are preferred for both polyribonucleotides and polydeoxyribonucleotides the well known methods of synthesizing DNA are also useful for synthesizing RNA . Polyribonucleotides can also be prepared enzymatically. Non naturally occurring nucleobases can be incorporated into the polynucleotide as well. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 833 Katz J. Am. Chem. Soc. 74 2238 1951 Yamane et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 83 2599 1961 Kosturko et al. Biochemistry 13 3949 1974 Thomas J. Am. Chem. Soc. 76 6032 1954 Zhang et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127 74 75 2005 and Zimmermann et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 13684 13685 2002 .

Polynucleotides contemplated herein range from about 5 nucleotides to about 50 nucleotides in length. In some embodiments the polynucleotide is between at least 5 nucleotides and at least 20 nucleotides between at least 5 nucleotides and at least 30 nucleotides or between at least 5 nucleotides and at least 50 nucleotides.

In further embodiments a polynucleotide contemplated by the disclosure is about 5 to about 60 70 80 90 100 or more nucleotides in length about 5 to about 90 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 80 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 70 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 60 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 50 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 45 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 40 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 35 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 30 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 25 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 20 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 15 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 10 nucleotides in length and all polynucleotides intermediate in length of the sizes specifically disclosed to the extent that the polynucleotide is able to achieve the desired result. Accordingly polynucleotides of 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 or more nucleotides in length are contemplated.

The polynucleotides of the disclosure are approximately 40 GC to about 60 GC with a Tm of about 48 C. or higher.

Another modification of the polynucleotides of the invention involves chemically linking the polynucleotide to one or more moieties or conjugates that enhance the activity cellular distribution or cellular uptake of the polynucleotide. Such moieties include but are not limited to lipid moieties such as a cholesterol moiety cholic acid a thioether e.g. hexyl S tritylthiol a thiocholesterol an aliphatic chain e.g. dodecandiol or undecyl residues a phospholipid e.g. di hexadecyl rac glycerol or triethylammonium 1 2 di O hexadecyl rac glycero 3 H phosphonate a polyamine or a polyethylene glycol chain or adamantane acetic acid a palmityl moiety or an octadecylamine or hexylamino carbonyl oxycholesterol moiety.

The compounds of the disclosure also can be used as a prophylactic or therapeutic which may be utilized for the purpose of treatment of a genetic disease.

In one embodiment the disclosure provides antisense polynucleotides that bind to a selected target in the gamma sarcoglycan pre mRNA to induce efficient and consistent exon skipping described herein in a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers generally to materials that are suitable for administration to a subject wherein the carrier is not biologically harmful or otherwise causes undesirable effects. Such carriers are typically inert ingredients of a medicament. Typically a carrier is administered to a subject along with an active ingredient without causing any undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of a pharmaceutical composition in which it is contained. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Martin Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In a more specific form of the disclosure there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising therapeutically effective amounts of an antisense polynucleotide together with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents preservatives solubilizers emulsifiers adjuvants and or carriers. Such compositions include diluents of various buffer content e.g. phosphate Tris HCl acetate pH and ionic strength and additives such as detergents and solubilizing agents e.g. Tween 80 Polysorbate 80 anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite preservatives e.g. Thimersol benzyl alcohol and bulking substances e.g. lactose mannitol . The material may be incorporated into particulate preparations of polymeric compounds such as for example and without limitation polylactic acid or polyglycolic acid or into liposomes. Hylauronic acid may also be used. Such compositions may influence the physical state stability rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance of the disclosed compositions. The compositions may be prepared in liquid form or may be in dried powder such as lyophilized form.

It will be appreciated that pharmaceutical compositions provided according to the disclosure may be administered by any means known in the art. Preferably the pharmaceutical compositions for administration are administered by injection orally or by the pulmonary or nasal route. The antisense polynucleotides are in various embodiments delivered by intravenous intra arterial intraperitoneal intramuscular or subcutaneous routes of administration.

The antisense molecules of the invention encompass any pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters or salts of such esters or any other compound which upon administration to an animal including a human is capable of providing directly or indirectly the biologically active metabolite or residue thereof. Accordingly for example the disclosure is also drawn to prodrugs and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such pro drugs and other bioequivalents.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to physiologically and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention i.e. salts that retain the desired biological activity of the parent compound and do not impart undesired toxicological effects thereto.

For polynucleotides preferred examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to a salts formed with cations such as sodium potassium ammonium magnesium calcium polyamines such as spermine and spermidine b acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids for example hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid nitric acid c salts formed with organic acids such as for example acetic acid oxalic acid tartaric acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid gluconic acid citric acid malic acid ascorbic acid benzoic acid tannic acid palmitic acid alginic acid polyglutamic acid naphthalenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid polygalacturonic acid and d salts formed from elemental anions such as chlorine bromine and iodine. The pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure may be administered in a number of ways depending upon whether local or systemic treatment is desired and upon the area to be treated. Administration may be topical including ophthalmic and to mucous membranes including rectal delivery pulmonary e.g. by inhalation of powders or aerosols including by nebulizer intratracheal intranasal epidermal and transdermal oral or parenteral. Parenteral administration includes intravenous intra arterial subcutaneous intraperitoneal or intramuscular injection or infusion or intracranial e.g. intrathecal or intraventricular administration. Polynucleotides with at least one 2 O methoxyethyl modification are believed to be particularly useful for oral administration.

The pharmaceutical formulations of the disclosure which may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form may be prepared according to conventional techniques well known in the pharmaceutical industry. Such techniques include the step of bringing into association the active ingredients with the pharmaceutical carrier s or excipient s . In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly bringing into association the active ingredients with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Combination therapy with an additional therapeutic agent is also contemplated by the disclosure. Examples of therapeutic agents that may be delivered concomitantly with a composition of the disclosure include without limitation a glucocorticoid steroid for example and without limitation prednisone and deflazacort an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor blocker an anti fibrotic agent and a combination thereof.

In some aspects the disclosure provides methods of expressing a mini gamma sarcoglycan in a cell. In any of the aspects or embodiments of the disclosure the cell is a mammalian cell. In any of the aspects or embodiments of the disclosure the cell is in a human and the human is in need of the mini gamma sarcoglycan. Accordingly in some aspects the disclosure provides gene therapy methods for expressing a mini gamma sarcoglycan in a cell.

In some embodiments a vector e.g. an expression vector comprising a polynucleotide of the invention to direct expression of the polynucleotide in a suitable host cell. Such vectors are useful e.g. for amplifying the polynucleotides in host cells to create useful quantities thereof and for expressing proteins using recombinant techniques. In some embodiments the vector is an expression vector wherein a polynucleotide of the invention is operatively linked to a polynucleotide comprising an expression control sequence. Autonomously replicating recombinant expression constructs such as plasmid and viral DNA vectors incorporating polynucleotides of the disclosure are specifically contemplated. Expression control DNA sequences include promoters enhancers and operators and are generally selected based on the expression systems in which the expression construct is to be utilized. In some embodiments promoter and enhancer sequences are selected for the ability to increase gene expression while operator sequences may be selected for the ability to regulate gene expression. Expression constructs of the invention may also include sequences encoding one or more selectable markers that permit identification of host cells bearing the construct. Expression constructs may also include sequences that facilitate and preferably promote homologous recombination in a host cell. Expression constructs of the disclosure also include in various embodiments sequences necessary for replication in a host cell.

Exemplary expression control sequences include promoter enhancer sequences e.g. cytomegalovirus promoter enhancer Lehner et al. J. Clin. Microbiol. 29 2494 2502 1991 Boshart et al. Cell 41 521 530 1985 Rous sarcoma virus promoter Davis et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 4 151 1993 and simian virus 40 promoter for expression in a target mammalian cell the promoter being operatively linked upstream i.e. 5 of the polypeptide coding sequence the disclosures of the cited references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and particularly with respect to the discussion of expression control sequences . In another variation the promoter is a muscle specific promoter. The polynucleotides of the invention may also optionally include a suitable polyadenylation sequence e.g. the SV40 or human growth hormone gene polyadenylation sequence operably linked downstream i.e. 3 of the polypeptide coding sequence.

If desired a polynucleotide of the disclosure also optionally comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a secretory signal peptide fused in frame with the polypeptide sequence. The secretory signal peptide directs secretion of the polypeptide of the invention by the cells that express the polynucleotide and is cleaved by the cell from the secreted polypeptide. The polynucleotide may further optionally comprise sequences whose only intended function is to facilitate large scale production of the vector e.g. in bacteria such as a bacterial origin of replication and a sequence encoding a selectable marker. However if the vector is administered to an animal such extraneous sequences are preferably at least partially cleaved. One can manufacture and administer polynucleotides for gene therapy using procedures that have been described in the literature for other transgenes. See e.g. Isner et al. Circulation 91 2687 2692 1995 Isner et al. Human Gene Therapy 7 989 1011 1996 Wang et al. Mol Ther. 20 8 1501 7 2012 and Zhang et al. Hum Mol Genet. 22 18 3720 9 2013 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments a naked transgene encoding a mini gamma sarcoglycan described herein i.e. a transgene without a viral liposomal or other vector to facilitate transfection is employed.

Vectors also are useful for gene therapy treatment regimens wherein for example a polynucleotide encoding a mini gamma sarcoglycan is introduced into a subject suffering from or at risk of suffering from a muscular dystrophy in a form that causes cells in the subject to express the mini gamma sarcoglycan in vivo. Any suitable vector may be used to introduce a polynucleotide that encodes a mini gamma sarcoglycan into the host. Exemplary vectors that have been described in the literature include replication deficient retroviral vectors including but not limited to lentivirus vectors Kim et al. J. Virol. 72 1 811 816 1998 Kingsman Johnson Scrip Magazine October 1998 pp. 43 46 parvoviral vectors such as adeno associated viral AAV vectors U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 474 9351 5 139 941 5 622 856 5 658 776 5 773 289 5 789 390 5 834 441 5 863 541 5 851 521 5 252 479 Gnatenko et al. J. Invest. Med. 45 87 98 1997 adenoviral AV vectors U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 792 453 5 824 544 5 707 618 5 693 509 5 670 488 5 585 362 Quantin et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 2581 2584 1992 Stratford Perricaudet et al. J. Clin. Invest. 90 626 630 1992 and Rosenfeld et al. Cell 68 143 155 1992 an adenoviral adeno associated viral chimeric U.S. Pat. No. 5 856 152 or a vaccinia viral or a herpesviral vector U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 879 934 5 849 571 5 830 727 5 661 033 5 328 688 Lipofectin mediated gene transfer BRL liposomal vectors U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 237 and combinations thereof. Additionally contemplated by the disclosure for introducing a polynucleotide encoding a mini gamma sarcoglycan into a subject is a plasmid vector see e.g. Dean Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 289 2 C233 45 2005 Kaufman et al. Gene Ther. 17 9 1098 104 2010 Magnusson et al. J Gene Med. 13 7 8 382 91 2011 . For example and without limitation any pBR or pUC derived plasmid vector is contemplated. All of the foregoing documents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and particularly with respect to their discussion of expression vectors. Any of these expression vectors can be prepared using standard recombinant DNA techniques described in e.g. Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning a Laboratory Manual 2d edition Cold Spring Harbor Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 and Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Publishing Associates and John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 1994 . Optionally the viral vector is rendered replication deficient by e.g. deleting or disrupting select genes required for viral replication.

Other non viral delivery mechanisms contemplated include calcium phosphate precipitation Graham and Van Der Eb Virology 52 456 467 1973 Chen and Okayama Mol. Cell Biol. 7 2745 2752 1987 Rippe et al. Mol. Cell Biol. 10 689 695 1990 DEAE dextran Gopal Mol. Cell Biol. 5 1188 1190 1985 electroporation Tur Kaspa et al. Mol. Cell Biol. 6 716 718 1986 Potter et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 81 7161 7165 1984 direct microinjection Harland and Weintraub J. Cell Biol. 101 1094 1099 1985 DNA loaded liposomes Nicolau and Sene Biochim. Biophys. Acta 721 185 190 1982 Fraley et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76 3348 3352 1979 Felgner Sci Am. 276 6 102 6 1997 Felgner Hum Gene Ther. 7 15 1791 3 1996 cell sonication Fechheimer et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 8463 8467 1987 gene bombardment using high velocity microprojectiles Yang et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 87 9568 9572 1990 and receptor mediated transfection Wu and Wu J. Biol. Chem. 262 4429 4432 1987 Wu and Wu Biochemistry 27 887 892 1988 Wu and Wu Adv. Drug Delivery Rev. 12 159 167 1993 .

In some embodiments transferring a naked DNA expression construct into cells is accomplished using particle bombardment which depends on the ability to accelerate DNA coated microprojectiles to a high velocity allowing them to pierce cell membranes and enter cells without killing them Klein et al. Nature 327 70 73 1987 . Several devices for accelerating small particles have been developed. One such device relies on a high voltage discharge to generate an electrical current which in turn provides the motive force Yang et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 87 9568 9572 1990 . The microprojectiles used have consisted of biologically inert substances such as tungsten or gold beads.

In embodiments employing a viral vector preferred polynucleotides still include a suitable promoter and polyadenylation sequence as described above. Moreover it will be readily apparent that in these embodiments the polynucleotide further includes vector polynucleotide sequences e.g. adenoviral polynucleotide sequences operably connected to the sequence encoding a polypeptide of the disclosure.

The disclosure further provides a cell that comprises the polynucleotide or the vector e.g. the cell is transformed or transfected with a polynucleotide encoding a mini gamma sarcoglycan of the disclosure or the cell is transformed or transfected with a vector comprising a polynucleotide encoding the mini gamma sarcoglycan.

Polynucleotides of the disclosure may be introduced into the host cell as part of a circular plasmid or as linear DNA comprising an isolated protein coding region or a viral vector. Methods for introducing DNA into the host cell which are well known and routinely practiced in the art include transformation transfection electroporation nuclear injection or fusion with carriers such as liposomes micelles ghost cells and protoplasts. As stated above such host cells are useful for amplifying the polynucleotides and also for expressing the polypeptides of the invention encoded by the polynucleotide. The host cell may be isolated and or purified. The host cell also may be a cell transformed in vivo to cause transient or permanent expression of the polypeptide in vivo. The host cell may also be an isolated cell transformed ex vivo and introduced post transformation e.g. to produce the polypeptide in vivo for therapeutic purposes.

The disclosure also provides kits for treatment of a patient with a genetic disease such as LGMD2C. In one aspect the kit comprises an antisense polynucleotide as disclosed herein optionally in a container and a package insert package label instructions or other labeling.

In a further embodiment a kit is provided that comprises an additional polynucleotide wherein the additional polynucleotide specifically hybridizes to an exon in a gamma sarcoglycan RNA.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that applications of the above method has wide application for identifying antisense molecules suitable for use in the treatment of many other diseases.

The sarcoglycans are conserved between and mammals. sarcoglycan null flies develop symptoms similar to mammals. Transgenic flies expressing full length murine sarcoglycan and mini Sgcg were generated and it was found that mini Sgcg protein correctly localizes at the plasma membrane of fly muscle cells.

 sarcoglycan null flies Sgcd were previously generated and characterized Allikian et al. Hum Mol Genet 16 2933 2943 2007 . Using PCR and Southern blot it has been shown that exons 1 to 3 and partial exon 4 out of the 6 exons in the Sgcd gene is deleted in Sgcdflies.

To determine whether mini Sgcg retains the function of the full length protein the UAS GAL4 system was utilized Brand et al. Development. 118 401 15 1993 to express two different sarcoglycan constructs. GAL4 is a transcription factor that recognizes a specific enhancer sequence called UAS.

The first construct expresses the full coding sequence of murine Sgcg gene from exon 2 to exon 8 referred to as UAS Sgcg. The second construct comprises the sequence of an Xpress epitope tag and exon 2 exon 3 and exon 8 of murine Sgcg gene only referred to as UAS mini Sgcg . The shorter construct retains the coding sequence of an intact intracellular domain transmembrane domain and part of the extracellular domain including the essential carboxyl terminus . A comparison of the constructs used in and mouse is depicted in . One UAS Sgcg and one UAS mini Sgcg transgenic line were generated in matched genetic backgrounds. A Mef2 GAL4 stock was also obtained. Mef2 is a muscle specific driver that promotes GAL4 expression in both heart and skeletal muscle tissue. Flies carrying both Mef2 GAL4 and UAS Sgcg or UAS mini Sgcg produce Sgcg or mini Sgcg protein specifically in the heart tube and in muscle tissue. To express the full length and mini Sgcg in mutant flies Sgcd Mef2 GAL4 virgin females were crossed to either UAS Sgcg or UAS mini Sgcg male flies. Since the Sgcd gene is located on X chromosome all the male progeny from each cross were null for Sgcd with half carrying both GAL4 and UAS transgenes. The other half served as an internal negative control. This comparison minimizes the effects of environment and genetic background on behavior assays. Wild type flies with matched age and genetic background served as the positive control.

The data showed that mini Sgcg has distinct plasma membrane localization in Sgcdfly heart tubes and in body muscle . This pattern is similar to full length Sgcg . Studies in human muscle mice and cell expression systems suggest that sarcoglycan complex assembly is required for the shuttling of sarcoglycan to the plasma membrane Allikian et al. Traffic 8 177 83 2007 Chen et al. Exp Cell Res. 312 1610 25 2006 Crosbie et al. Hum Mol Genet. 9 2019 27 2000 . Thus the correct subcellular localization of both proteins implies interaction with the fly sarcoglycan subunits highlighting the conservation between murine and fly sarcoglycan. More importantly the results indicated that mini Sgcg protein retains the function of interacting with other components of the dystrophin complex.

Patients with LGMD2C display distinct muscle histology from healthy individuals including loss of mature muscle fibers abnormal deposition of fibrotic or fatty tissue and immune cells infiltration Dubowitz Muscle disorders in childhood. Saunders Philadelphia. xiii 282 1978 . Sgcdflies show increased detachment of flight muscle from exoskeleton and this finding is more prominent if flies are allowed to exercise Goldstein et al. Hum Mol Genet. 20 894 904 2011 . To encourage muscle usage flies are kept in a 20 20 20 cm box instead of standard vials so that they can fly at ease. Flies are aged to 28 days before harvesting for histological examination. Specifically thoraces are collected sectioned and stain with hematoxylin and eosin H E using the Carnoy fixation protocol. The frequency of flight muscle fracture between mutant flies rescued flies and wild type flies are then compared.

Similar to human patients Sgcdflies develop impaired locomotive ability over time Allikian et al. Hum Mol Genet 16 2933 43 2007 . Motility defects are measured using a negative geotaxis assay. Different from most apparatus for bulk measurement a more individualized apparatus was designed that can provide the walking ability measurement of an individual fly as precise as 0.5 cm Goldstein et al. Hum Mol Genet. 20 894 904 2011 . The apparatus is composed of 16 vertical plastic tubes that are 13 cm long with rulers on each side. Briefly an individual fly is placed in each tube after anesthesia allowed to recover for 30 minutes and then tested. To test walking the flies are then tapped to the bottom and allowed to climb up for 5 seconds. The distance that each fly travels at the end of the 5 seconds is scored. Six trials with a 1 minute interval are performed. Analysis of variance ANOVA with a post Tukey test is employed for data analysis in PRISM software.

Muscular dystrophy patients develop dilated cardiomyopathy due to the impaired contractility of heart muscle cells. Sgcdflies also show cardiac malfunction as they age indicated by enlarged heart tube and reduced fraction shortening Allikian et al. Hum Mol Genet 16 2933 43 2007 Goldstein et al. Hum Mol Genet. 20 894 904 2011 . The heart function of flies is examined by OCT Wolf et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 103 1394 9 2006 . OCT serves as the fly counterpart to the echocardiography ECHO used with mammals. The major difference between OCT and ECHO is that OCT measures backscattered light instead of sound. OCT determines the end systolic diameter ESD end diastolic diameter EDD fractional shortening FS and heart rate. Twenty to forty flies from each genotype were tested at 7 10 days of age. Data showed that mini Sgcg expression reduced the abnormal heart tube dilation in Sgcdflies indicating that the mini Sgcg was functional. Flies will be assessed at older ages when the cardiomyopathy is more prevalent. Importantly the results will be compared to transgenic flies expressing full length murine sarcoglycan to determine if the degree of correction is similar between the mini Sgcg and the full length Sgcg.

It is expected that expression of either mini Sgcg or full length Sgcg will lead to rescue of disease progression in mutant flies. Specifically it is expected that less muscle disruption improved walking ability and restored heart function will be seen in mutant flies with the mini Sgcg or Sgcg. It is possible that the preparation procedures of the muscle tissue might interfere with identification of muscle tears. Muscle damage induces TGF signaling surrounding the injury sites which can be visualized by dad lacZ reporter activity Goldstein et al. Hum Mol Genet. 20 894 904 2011 . The dad lacZ reporter construct is expected to provide better visualization of muscle tearing Goldstein et al. Hum Mol Genet. 20 894 904 2011 . If the walking assay is not sensitive enough to detect the improvement brought by expression of mini Sgcg an alternative motility assay that enables the examination of a larger number of flies at one time will be performed Shcherbata et al. EMBO J 26 481 93 2007 . Mutant flies have reduced life span Allikian et al. Hum Mol Genet 16 2933 43 2007 . Thus the lifespan of mini Sgcg rescued flies is determined providing additional evidence of the benefits of mini Sgcg expression and the increased lifespan will be quantitated. Data has shown that expression of mini Sgcg significantly improved heart function in Sgcdflies leading to the expectation that mini Sgcg or full length Sgcg will yield beneficial effects in preventing or treating dystrophic disease such as LGMD e.g. LGMD2C . As a comparison flies that express Sgcd have also been generated for comparison purposes.

By characterizing the correction of mutant phenotype in an established mouse model a more accurate prediction of the effect of replacing the full length sarcoglycan with the truncated sarcoglycan in human patients can be determined.

To test the function of mini Sgcg in mice transgenic mice expressing murine mini Sgcg were generated using the desmin promoter which expresses in both heart and muscle cells Pacak et al. Genet Vaccines Ther 6 13 2008 . sarcoglycan is required for proper function of both heart and skeletal muscle Zhu et al. FASEB J 16 1096 1098 2002 . To assess the rescue efficiency of sarcoglycan sub domains in both muscle tissues the human desmin promoter is used. Desmin is an intermediate filament that is expressed in all muscle tissue including heart and skeletal muscle Su et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 6062 6067 2004 . Besides being tissue specific the desmin gene also becomes activated during muscle differentiation at around the same time as the sarcoglycans Li et al. J Cell Biol 124 827 841 1994 Noguchi et al. Eur J Biochem 267 640 648 2000 . Desmin expression level remains low in dividing myoblasts and reaches a persistently high level in terminally differentiated myofibers. Minimal sequences of the regulatory region of the human desmin gene have been cloned and have been shown to promote high level target gene expression specifically in both heart and skeletal muscle Pacak et al. Genet Vaccines Ther 6 13 2008 .

Using a CMV mini Sgcg construct in a pcDNA 3.0 vector Invitrogen the CMV promoter was replaced with the desmin promoter. An Xpress epitope tag was inserted at the N terminus of mini Sgcg. The purified desmin mini Sgcg construct see was injected and a transgene positive male founder was generated. The male founder is being bred to Sgcg mice. Transgene injections continued and five additional founder lines were generated. To test the function of the desmin promoter C2C12 cells a cultured muscle cell line were transfected with the desmin mini Sgcg construct and it was found that mini Sgcg was produced in differentiated myotubes .

Overexpression of sarcoglycan has been shown to cause severe muscular dystrophy in wild type mice when expression levels are approximately 20 fold over normal levels Zhu et al. FASEB J 16 1096 8 2002 . This result was likely due to the formation of abnormal cytoplasmic protein aggregates that interfere with sarcoglycan complex assembly and membrane targeting. The copy number of the currently generated single transgene line appears low so problems resulting from overexpression are not anticipated. Muscle from desmin mini Sgcg transgenic mice are examined for normal membrane localization using the Xpress tag. Experiments have been conducted with this same construct in C2C12 cells a muscle cell line. In these cells mini Sgcg showed similar localization to endogenous sarcoglycan protein.

To further determine the level of mini Sgcg production both heart and skeletal muscle tissue from various transgenic lines are collected and processed for immunoblotting experiments. The Xpress epitope tag allows the mini Sgcg protein to be easily detected on the immunoblot through the use of an antibody against Xpress. Full length sarcoglycan is detected using NCL g sarc antibody Novocastra . Because this monoclonal antibody is raised against a 12 amino acid peptide within exon 6 only full length but not mini Sgcg protein will be detected. Polyclonal antibodies have also been generated that will recognize both full length and mini Sgcg. Following generation of additional transgenic lines a line is chosen that shows an expression level near wild type.

To determine if mini Sgcg can replace full length Sgcg in mammals mini Sgcg Tg transgene positive mice are bred to Sgcg mice to determine whether heart and muscle dysfunction in Sgcg can be rescued. To prevent phenotypic drift Sgcg mice are kept as heterozygotes to reduce selection of spontaneously developed modifiers. To introduce the mini Sgcg transgene into Sgcg mice Sgcg are bred to mini Sgcg Tg mice. The Tg Sgcg F1 males are bred to females. In F2 Tg Sgcg mice are produced. Among the littermates Tg wild type mice are used as positive controls while Tg Sgcg mice are used as negative controls. To measure whether mini Sgcg can improve the impaired muscle function in Sgcg mice the following aspects are compared between cohorts subcellular localization of sarcoglycan proteins direct interaction between mini Sgcg and other sarcoglycans plasma membrane permeability of muscle cells fibrotic tissue deposition fibrosis and skeletal muscle function and heart function. Histopathology is examined from transgene rescued mice to compare to Sgcg and wild type mice. Muscles are examined for variation in fiber size central nucleation and replacement by fibrosis and fat. Sgcg and transgenic mice are all on the C57B16 J background.

In heart and muscle cells lacking sarcoglycan and sarcoglycans are also greatly reduced from muscle membrane while their mRNA levels remain normal indicating that the presence of sarcoglycan is required for the stable membrane localization of other sarcoglycans in the complex Hack et al. J Cell Sci. 113 14 2535 44 2000 . To test if the mini Sgcg protein can restore the proper localization of other sarcoglycans in the absence of full length sarcoglycan sections of frozen muscle tissue from Tg Sgcg animals are examined and immunofluorescence microscopy is performed using antibodies against and sarcoglycan respectively. All antibodies are available commercially or are those that were previously generated.

In wild type muscle cells and sarcoglycans form a tight complex that localizes at the plasma membrane. sarcoglycan can be co immunoprecipitated co IP with sarcoglycan from muscle tissue Hack et al. J Cell Sci. 113 14 2535 44 2000 . To examine if mini Sgcg can also interact with sarcoglycan co IP is performed on protein preparations collected from Tg Sgcg mice. The muscle is fractionated to isolate the membranes from the myofibrillar components. These microsomal preparations are performed on whole muscle and only the microsomal fraction is used in the co IP.

In Sgcg animals the muscle plasma membrane is weakened and becomes more permeable to large protein molecules. Evans Blue Dye EBD is a small molecule dye that binds tightly to albumin and measures sarcolemmal permeability Matsuda et al. J Biochem 118 959 64 1995 . Mice are injected with EBD and sacrificed 40 hours after injection. EBD is measured by incubating tissues in 1 milliliter of formamide at 55 C. for 2.5 hours and determining the absorbance of the resulting elution at 620 nm. Serum creatine kinase CK level is also measured using the EnzyChrom Creatine Kinase Assay Kit BioAssay Systems .

Collagen is the main component of the excessive fibrous tissue. To quantify collagen deposition hydroxyproline assays HOP are performed to quantitate collagen content. Hydroxyproline is a modified amino acid that comprises a major portion of collagen. Heart and muscle tissues are collected and HOP assays are performed according to described methods Heydemann et al. Neuromuscul Disord 15 601 9 2005 incorporated herein by reference.

Heart dysfunction is a major direct cause of disability and death in muscular dystrophy patients. Mice lacking sarcoglycans also develop dilated cardiomyopathy. To investigate heart function echocardiography ECHO is performed to measure end diastolic dimension EDD end systolic dimension ESD and fractional shortening FS .

Mice are analyzed at 12 and 24 weeks of age since these time points display both muscle and heart disease. The numbers used will reflect the physiological studies being conducted and typically require cohorts of between 5 and 10 to show significance t test . Additional animals are also used to provide a supply of tissue for microscopy and Western blotting.

Mice are being used because they provide a good model of muscle and heart disease that reflects what is seen in humans with similar gene mutations. Over 500 mice of this genotype Sgcg have been examined and quantitative methods of phenotyping have been established Heydemann et al. Neuromuscul Disord 15 9 10 601 9 2005 Heydemann et al. J. Clin. Invest 119 12 3703 12 2009 Swaggart et al. Physiol Genomics 43 1 24 31 2011 . Given the difference in phenotype expected from the studies it is anticipated that cohorts of 5 10 mice will be sufficient.

Several lines of mice harboring des mini Sgcg transgenes that express mini Sgcg protein at different levels in muscle tissue are expected with some lines at near endogenous sarcoglycan levels. It is expected that mini Sgcg is undetectable in other tissues. It is also expected that mini Sgcg protein is enriched at the plasma membrane in wild type mice. It is possible that some cytoplasmic or perinuclear staining of mini Sgcg is observed because the presence of full length Sgcg may compete with mini Sgcg for inclusion in the sarcoglycan complex. More distinct plasma membrane staining of mini Sgcg in Sgcg mice is expected. A similar pattern of expression has been seen in studies in . In Tg Sgcg muscle it is expected that mini Sgcg expression will restore the membrane localization of other sarcoglycans. Mini Sgcg is also expected to be present among the proteins associated with and pulled down by sarcoglycan. Improved histopathology reduced EBD uptake decreased CK level less HOP and improved heart function are expected in Tg Sgcg compared to Tg Sgcg littermates without the transgene. These would all represent an improvement in muscle and heart disease establishing that mini Sgcg rescues the Sgcg mutation as expected.

Based on the studies described herein mini Sgcg is expected to have many of the functions of Sgcg. The transgenic mice will also allow for the investigation of the interaction with other important components of the dystrophin complex such as dystrophin sarcospan and interactions with other transmembrane components.

For exon skipping fibroblasts have been obtained from human LGMD2C patients. A forced MyoD expression approach described below is used to induce these cells into a myogenic lineage Kimura et al. Hum Mol Genet 17 2507 17 2008 . These cells will provide a cell based environment in which to test human Sgcg exon skipping.

The rationale for the experiments described below is that exon skipping requires optimization of antisense polynucleotides and proof of function in vitro.

Fibroblasts isolated from two LGMD2C patients carrying a deletion of exon 6 in the Sgcg gene have been obtained. MyoD is a master regulator of the muscle differentiation program. Forced expression of MyoD in fibroblasts can convert the fibroblasts to a muscle lineage Lattanzi et al. J Clin Invest 101 2119 2128 1998 .

MyoD is a key initiator of the skeletal muscle differentiation program Weintraub et al. Science 251 761 766 1991 . MyoD is responsible for activating other essential muscle regulators such as myocyte enhancer factor 2 MEF2 and myogenin. It has been shown that forced expression of MyoD in fibroblasts is able to convert fibroblasts to myoblasts both in vitro and in vivo Kimura et al. Hum Mol Genet 17 2507 2517 2008 . Therefore introducing MyoD into fibroblasts is sufficient to convert a fibroblast down a myoblast lineage. Once established myoblasts under the proper conditions can be induced to differentiate further into myotubes. This process is applied to human fibroblasts and MyoD forced fibroblasts are useful for diagnosing human muscle disease. Myoblasts derived from human patients bearing the sarcoglycan mutation described herein are required in order to test the efficiency of exon skipping induced by different potential AONs. Using dermal fibroblasts from LGMD2C patients avoids the need for painful muscle biopsies required to obtain myoblasts.

Kimura et al. made a tamoxifen inducible MyoD construct and inserted the MyoD gene into fibroblast genomes via lentiviral vector. They found that the transfected fibroblasts were able to form myotubes both in vivo and in vitro upon administration of tamoxifen. The MyoD vector is used to transfect the fibroblasts obtained from the LGMD2C patients. The transfected fibroblasts are expanded without tamoxifen induction and frozen in small aliquots for future use.

To target specific exons antisense polynucleotides AONs are designed to block splice donor splice acceptor or exonic splicing enhancer ESE sites. Splice donor and splice acceptor sites localize at exon intron boundaries and have highly conserved sequences. Based on nucleotide sequence and secondary structure of RNA transcripts ESE sites are predicted at high accuracy by software such as ESEfinder which predicts binding sites for the four most abundant serine arginine rich proteins involved in splicing regulation SR proteins . A series of AONs are designed based on the prediction of available software programs. The efficiency and specificity of different AONs in myotubes converted from patient fibroblasts is then examined following a protocol that has been used to test exon skipping efficiency in primary human myotubes Aartsma Rus et al. Hum Mol Genet 12 907 914 2003 . Specifically fibroblasts are treated with tamoxifen for 24 hours to induce MyoD expression before switching the fibroblasts to differentiation medium for induction of myotube formation. Following 7 14 days of serum deprivation the myotubes are transfected with AON using polyethylenimine PEI for 3 hours in low serum medium. At 24 hours post transfection total RNA is extracted from the myotube cultures. The ratio of the shorter mRNA transcript composed of only exon 1 2 3 and 8 to the full length transcripts is quantified by performing reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR . The PCR product is fractionated on an agarose gel and the ratio of short long products is calculated using Photoshop software. The AONs with highest exon skipping efficiency are selected.

Frame shift mutations in the Sgcg gene in patients result in a prematurely terminated protein without a C terminus. Previous study has also shown that the protein product of the Sgcg gene with a 525 T mutation was not detected by a rabbit polyclonal antibody raised again the entire Sgcg protein McNally et al. Am J Hum Genet 59 1040 1047 1996 . This result suggested that the mutant Sgcg gene was not able to produce a stable protein product. This is also likely to be the case in the LGMD2C patients from whom the fibroblasts were obtained.

Restoration of the reading frame results in translation of an internally truncated protein with a normal C terminus. To visualize the production of AON induced protein IF microscopy is performed using the polyclonal antibody against the full length sarcoglycan protein on myotubes with and without AON treatment. By using IF it can also be determined whether the smaller sarcoglycan protein localizes to the membrane. IF is also performed to detect other sarcoglycans e.g. and sarcoglycan and assess whether they have been restored to the membrane in Tg Sgcg mice.

It is expected that fibroblasts are converted to myoblast like cells that are capable of forming myotubes upon tamoxifen administration. Alternatively myoblasts are obtained from human patients. It is expected that several AON treatments will convert a substantial fraction of full length Sgcg transcript to smaller internally truncated protein. It is expected that no Sgcg staining is detected by the polyclonal antibody in patient myotubes without AON treatment while the internally truncated sarcoglycan protein is expected to be localized at the membrane of a substantial percentage of treated myotubes. Further it is expected that other components of the dystrophin complex are restored at the plasma membrane of the myotubes that show positive sarcoglycan membrane staining. In the event that the polyclonal antibody is able to detect residual product of the 525 T Sgcg gene an antibody against the C terminus of the sarcoglycan protein is raised to specifically detect the truncated sarcoglycan protein.

This experiment was designed to test whether loss of Sgcd in negatively affects their walking activity.

A monitor designed to test walking activity Trikinetics Waltham Mass. was used to record movement measured as infrared beam breaks over a 24 hour period on individual . Normally display a marked spike in activity at dawn and dusk irrespective of genotype. The data are shown in . To assess basal activity data was analyzed from midnight to 8 AM boxed as region of interest in left panel of . Wildtype flies have significantly more activity measured as infrared beam breaks than Sgcdflies which lack sarcoglycan and serve as a model for Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy type 2C. This decline in activity mirrors what is seen in muscular dystrophy patients who display reduced ambulation due to muscle weakness.

A transgene using the desmin promoter to drive expression of Mini Sgcg was introduced in normal wildtype mice Tg . The data are presented in . Skeletal quadriceps muscle isolation and immunoblotting was performed as described in Hack et al. J Cell Sci. 113 2535 44 2000 . Mini Sgcg protein is robustly detected in skeletal muscle and heart at the expected molecular weight of 18 KDa arrow . It is not detected in other cell types such as liver spleen and kidney. This expression pattern reflects the desmin promoter which drives expression only in heart and muscle. Mini Sgcg is not detected in wildtype non transgenic mice Tg see . The Xpress epitope Invitrogen was placed on Mini Sgcg and an affinity purified polyclonal rabbit antibody raised to the Xpress epitope was used at a 1 1000 dilution to detect expression from the transgene. These data demonstrate that mini Sgcg protein is stable in mammalian muscle and heart and further that the protein is able to correctly translocate to the muscle membrane.

Two different transgenic lines were established expressing mini Sgcg. The transgenic animals were created using standard protocols. As depicted in line 50 expresses at higher levels than line 84. The upper panel of shows expression at three different concentrations from line 50 or line 84. These data demonstrate that mini Sgcg is a stable protein in skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle. An antibody to endogenous sarcoglycan protein was used to demonstrate expression of Sgcg protein full length in these same samples. A polyclonal affinity purified rabbit anti Xpress was generated at Pocono Rabbit Farms. It was used at a dilution of 1 1000 for immunoblotting to detect mini Sgcg upper panels . The antibody to sarcoglycan was previously described McNally et al. Hum Mol Genet. 5 1841 7 1996 and was used to detect endogenous sarcoglycan at 1 1000.

Muscle can be fractionated into a cytoplasmic C and a membrane fraction. The membrane fraction can be further subdivided into light L and H microsomes. The sarcoglycan complex is normally found in the heavy microsomal complex containing plasma membrane. Muscle from mice expressing mini Sgcg T was fractionated to separate the cytoplasm from the light and heavy microsomal fractions. The heavy microsomal fraction contains the ER Golgi and plasma membrane fractions. In the two different transgenic lines 84 and 50 mini Sgcg enriches greatly in the heavy microsomal fraction . This demonstrates that mini Sgcg is found in the proper intracellular fraction. The method for isolating microsomes was as previously described Ohlendieck et al. J Cell Biol. 112 135 48 1991 with modification described in Duclos et al. J Cell Biol. 142 1461 71 1998 Hack et al. J Cell Sci. 113 2535 44 2000 . The antibody used in the upper panels of is the affinity purified anti Xpress epitope. The antibody used in the lower panel of was a rabbit polyclonal anti sarcoglycan antibody McNally et al. Hum Mol Genet. 5 1841 7 1996 . Antibodies were used at 1 500. All secondary antibodies were from Jackson Immunochemicals goat anti rabbit HRP used at 1 1000.

Two human cell lines with SGCG mutations have been established for the purposes of testing exon skipping for the production of mini Sgcg. These lines are derived from dermal fibroblasts isolated from human patients with primary SGCG gene mutations. The top row of shows cells from an LGMD 2C patient whose disease arises from a mutation deleting exon 7 in SGCG. The bottom row of shows cells from an LGMD 2C patient who is deleted for exon 6 of SGCG. These cell lines were infected with retroviruses expressing telomerase and MyoD. The infection with the telomerase virus provides an immortalized cell line and the infection with the MyoD virus provides a regulated means of inducing muscle differentiation since the nuclear position of MyoD is under the control of tamoxifen Kimura et al. Hum Mol Genet. 17 2507 17 2008 Kendall et al. Sci Transl Med. 4 164ra160 2012 . This combination creates cell lines that are immortalized with telomerase which provides a ready supply of cells. The regulatable control of MyoD nuclear expression provides a mechanism by which muscle conversion can be induced at will. These cell lines serve as cellular models of LGMD 2C and provide the format in which induced expression of mini Sgcg can be tested in a human cell context. With the addition of tamoxifen the MyoD localizes in the nucleus and the cells undergo differentiation into elongated myotubes middle and right panel .

