---

title: Kinetic mapping
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for kinetic mapping. A spatial interface, such as a map, may represent information according to an overview scale. If the spatial interface comprises a substantial amount of uninteresting content, such as a 100 mile stretch of highway, compared to interesting content, such as a 1 mile complex detour after the highway, then the interesting content may not be displayed at an adequate level of detail due to being displayed at the same overview scale as the 100 mile stretch of highway. Accordingly, points of interest within the spatial interface may be identified and encapsulated to create portals representing such information at relatively higher levels of detail. A kinetic geospatial interface comprising the portals (e.g., the detour) at a focused scale and non-portal information (e.g., the highway) at a collapsed scale (e.g., a lower level of detail than the focused scale) is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514714&OS=09514714&RS=09514714
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09514714
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131125
---
Many applications and or websites may provide geospatial interfaces. In an example a mobile device may host a driving app configured to provide driving directions through a map interface. In another example a vacation planning website may display vacation destinations through a map interface. Often times there may be points of interest on a map that are far enough apart that there is a substantial amount of uninteresting or useless space between such points e.g. miles of ocean along a vacation trip from San Francisco to Hawaii . Because the map may maintain the same scale for the points of interest and the less useful space the map may not provide an adequate granularity of detail for the points of interest. In an example the driving app may route driving directions comprising a 1 mile portion of complex city driving to reach an on ramp a 100 mile straightaway of highway travel and a 0.5 mile portion of complex city driving from an off ramp to reach a destination. Unfortunately the 1 mile complex portion and the 0.05 mile complex portion may be displayed at the same granularity e.g. size level of detail scale etc. as the 100 mile straightaway which may force the complex portions to be displayed at suboptimal levels of detail than what may otherwise be useful to a user e.g. a user of a mobile device comprising a relatively small screen . In another example an image e.g. photo interface may display GPS located images captured by a user in New York and in Seattle but none in between. Thus the user may be forced to look at a map of the entire United States that comprises the New York images the Seattle images and a substantial amount of dead space without images. Because the map is scaled to the entire United States the New York images and the Seattle images may not be placed on the map at accurate capture locations and or may overlap or occlude one another.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for kinetic mapping are provided herein. A geospatial interface such as a map may represent information according to an overview scale. For example a map of a city may display driving directions from a current location of a mobile device to a convention center 120 miles away. The map may display information associated with the driving directions such as roads gas stations hotels businesses and or geography at the overview scale e.g. 1 50 000 . As provided herein points of interest within the geospatial interface may be identified so that such points of interest e.g. a complex detour may be displayed at a focused scale having a higher granularity e.g. a scale of 1 1 000 that provides a greater amount of detail and or size than relatively uninteresting content e.g. a 50 mile straightaway of highway driving .

In an example the 120 mile driving route may comprise 50 miles of a first straight highway a complex interchange 60 miles of a second straight highway and 10 miles of city driving with a 0.5 mile detour. The complex interchange may be identified as a first point of interest and the 0.5 mile detour may be identified as a second point of interest. The first point of interest may be encapsulated to create a first portal representing the complex interchange at a first focused scale having a relatively high level of detail e.g. a 1 500 scale . The second point of interest may be encapsulated to create a second portal representing the 0.5 mile detour at a second focused scale having a relatively high level of detail e.g. a 1 1000 scale . A kinetic geospatial interface may be created based upon the geospatial interface. For example the kinetic geospatial interface may comprise the first portal at the first focused scale the second portal at the second focused scale and non portal information e.g. the first straight highway and the second straight highway at a collapsed scale e.g. a scale that displays non portal information at a lower level of detail than the focused scale such as the overview scale or a scale less detailed than the overview scale . In this way the first portal and the second portal may display relatively higher levels of detail at a larger size than non portal information within the kinetic geospatial interface. In an example the kinetic geospatial interface may be displayed through a mobile device having a relatively small screen so that a user may adequately view details for the points of interest through the portals.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of kinetic mapping is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a geospatial interface representing information according to an overview scale may be identified. For example the geospatial interface may be associated with a vacation app on a mobile device. The geospatial interface may comprise a map of Jamaica corresponding to various resorts across Jamaica such as northern resorts along a northern shore southern resorts along a southern shore eastern resort along an eastern shore and western resorts along an eastern shore. The geospatial interface may represent information about Jamaica according to an overview scale where interesting content such as the resorts and uninteresting content such as an uninhabited central portion are displayed at the same level of granularity or detail. Thus the geospatial interface may not provide an adequate level of detail for the resorts because a substantial portion of the map may be consumed with the uninhabited central portion. Accordingly as provided herein points of interest may be identified and or displayed at higher levels of granularity or detail than uninteresting portions of the map. It is to be appreciated that although interesting and or uninteresting portions of the map are mentioned herein that the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not necessarily to be limited thereby. For example some portions of the map that may not necessarily be regarded as uninteresting may be displayed at a different granularity than other portions of the map. Examples provided herein are not necessarily meant to be limiting.

At a first point of interest within the geospatial interface may be identified. For example the eastern resorts along the eastern shore may be identified as the first point of interest based upon the eastern shore comprising resorts having relatively high user ratings. It may be appreciated that a variety of criteria may be taken into account when identifying a point of interest such as social network information e.g. a user may post that the user has an interest in a particular chain of resorts in Jamaica one of which is located on the eastern shore email information e.g. the user may receive an email from a spouse about a particular eastern resort entity information e.g. a travel service that the user may have previously used may identify locations of resorts in Jamaica user ratings e.g. users may rate resorts in Jamaica news stories e.g. news stories about a new world renowned spa opening near the eastern shore that may be interesting to travelers a closure of a resort etc. transportation information e.g. identification of a detour complex driving directions on ramps airports traffic conditions etc. user tasks e.g. the user may have a task to attend a conference in eastern Jamaica image location data e.g. a concentration of vacation images may be located at the eastern shore but not the central portion of Jamaica and or a variety of other criteria e.g. information from an information source to which the user opted in to link to a kinetic mapping component or service . In an example one or more points of interest may be identified such as the western resorts along the western shore being identified as a second point of interest. It may be appreciated that a point of interest may correspond to various information such as a location at which a concentration of images are above a threshold concentration e.g. a concentration of vacation images at a western resort a driving route segment e.g. a complex driving route an entity e.g. a vacation horse riding stable a vacation waterfall climbing location a mall a restaurant a conference center a friend s house home an airport etc. and or a variety of other information.

At the first point of interest may be encapsulated to create a first portal. In an example the first portal corresponds to a visual interface element within which the first point of interest is displayed. In an example the first portal may be an interactive interface element through which a user may interact with information such as panning around the first point of interest e.g. the user may cycle through eastern resorts the user may pan around the eastern coast or anywhere in Jamaica the user may zoom in or zoom out the user may tag information or make notes etc. . The interactive interface element may comprise an action interface through which information about entities may be displayed e.g. user reviews hours phone number menus activities or other information for an eastern resort may be displayed social network information about an entity such as a social network post about a water fall may be displayed etc. . In an example the action interface may specify a meeting scheduled for the first point of interest e.g. a meeting reminder may be displayed for the conference center . In another example the action interface may specify a social network profile of an entity associated with the first point of interest. In another example the action interface may specify an action invokable by a user to perform an action associated with the first point of interest e.g. book a reservation call the eastern resort send a snapshot from the first portal to a second user create an email or reminder about the eastern resort and or a plethora of other actions . In this way one or more portals such as a second portal encapsulating the second point of interest may be created.

At a kinetic geospatial interface comprising the first portal and or other portals such as the second portal may be generated. The first portal may be displayed according to a focused scale that displays information at a relatively higher granularity than the overview scale. For example the focused scale may display an eastern resort at a higher level of detail and or size than information not within a portal such as building in central Jamaica. Non portal information may be displayed according to a collapsed scale. In an example the collapsed scale may display information at a lower granularity than the focused scale. In another example the collapsed scale may display information at a similar granularity as the overview scale e.g. a portion of the eastern coast that is relatively close to but outside of the first portal may have a collapsed scale similar to the overview scale . In another example the collapsed scale may display information at a lower granularity than the overview scale e.g. a 200 mile stretch of forest within the central portion of Jamaica may be collapsed to a level of detail and or size that is substantially smaller than other portions of Jamaica that may be more interesting such as the portion of the eastern coast that is relatively close to but outside of the first portal . In this way information such as points of interest displayed through portals may be displayed at relatively higher levels of detail and or size than non portal information such as geography roads entities businesses or other locations not within portals. Thus a user may view points of interest through the kinetic geospatial interface at a relatively higher level of detail and or size than would otherwise be viewable through the geospatial interface due to the geospatial interface merely displaying information such as the uninhabited central portion of Jamaica at the same scale.

In an example the first portal comprises a portal edge representing a barrier separating content within the first portal corresponding to the first point of interest and the non portal information. The portal edge may be interactive such that a user may interact with the portal edge to expand the first portal shrink the first portal zoom into the first portal pan the first portal around the kinetic geospatial interface invoke actions through an action interface populated along the portal edge etc. Various information may be populated within the first portal. In an example one or more images may be displayed such as vacation images of the eastern resort that are retrieved from an image sharing social network. In another example entity information for an entity may be displayed through the first portal such as a user rating for the eastern resort and or a visual representation of the eastern resort. The entity information may be displayed at a higher granularity and or size than non portal information such as a building within the central portion of Jamaica that may not be relevant to a user. In an example area inside a portal may be geospatially accurate whereas area outside the portal may or may not be collapsed e.g. may or may not be geospatially accurate . In this way a user may clearly delineate or visually perceive area inside the portal from area outside the portal such as based upon a portal edge of the portal. The area outside the portal may be changed from a geospatially accurate view to a collapsed view and or otherwise changed from a geospatially accurate view to a less accurate geospatially accurate view such as a collapsed view.

In an example a plurality of portals may be dynamically arranged and or rearranged within the kinetic geospatial interface. In an example the plurality of portals may be arranged according to an aspect ratio arrangement solution e.g. portals and or information therein may be arranged and or sized so that information may be displayed at a desirable aspect ratio . In an example the plurality of portals may be arranged according to a directional arrangement solution e.g. a first eastern portal and a second eastern portal may correspond to locations relative close to one another and thus the first eastern portal and the second eastern portal may be directionally spatially arranged with respect to one another to mitigate overlap or occlusion . In another example the plurality of portals may be arranged according to a step by step arrangement solution and or a narrative ordering e.g. portals may be arranged in a sequential order such as a storybook of vacation images captured at the point of interest that are ordered according to capture dates . It may be appreciated that portals may be dynamically arranged and or rearranged e.g. automatically or based upon a user selection of a particular arrangement order according to various orderings such as a user need arrangement solution e.g. an ordering of portals based upon a vacation itinerary a linear ordering cardinal directions ordering a temporal order e.g. hours days months and or other temporal indicators such as a timeline or chart may be populated within the kinetic geospatial interface to aid in illustrating a temporal order of locations that are to be visited during a vacation etc.

Various interactions may be facilitated for the first portal. In an example responsive to a first interaction with the first portal a zoom in operation may be performed for the first point of interest. The zoom in operation may display the first point of interest at a relatively higher granularity and or size than the focused scale. Responsive to a second interaction indicating a focus shift from the first portal to the second portal a zoom switch operation from the first point of interest to the second point of interest encapsulated within the second portal may be performed. For example the second portal may be brought into focus e.g. centered within the kinetic geospatial interface and or the second point of interest e.g. instead of the first point of interest may be displayed at the focused scale or a relatively higher granularity and or size than the focused scale. In this way a user may efficiently switch between portals. In another example responsive to interaction with the non portal information the kinetic geospatial interface may be transitioned to the overview scale. For example the first portal may be removed and or replaced with a placeholder that may be invoked to return the first portal. In another example navigation may be facilitated between a plurality of portals populated within the kinetic geospatial interface based upon user navigation. For example a carousel interface populated with the plurality of portals may be displayed such that a user may navigate from one portal to the next in a continuous manner. It may be appreciated that a variety of navigation interfaces or commands are contemplated herein. At the method ends.

In an example the kinetic mapping component may identify the detour near the user s home S as a first point of interest because displaying the detour at a relatively higher granularity detail and or size compared with other information may be beneficial for a user. Similarity the deadman s curve may be identified as a second point of interest and the series of turns near the birthday party destination D may be identified as a third point of interest . In this way the one or more points of interest may be identified for encapsulation within portals for display at relatively higher granularity detail and or size compared with other non portal information such as the first and second straight highway portion totaling 60 miles of non complex and or uninteresting driving e.g. the straight highway portions may be collapsed to provide additional viewing space for the portals .

In an example the kinetic mapping component may identify a toy store as a fourth point of interest based upon an email indicating a task to buy a toy for the birthday party at the birthday party destination D . The fourth point of interest may be identified because it may be advantageous to display directions to and or information about the toy store at a relatively higher granularity detail and or size compared with other less interesting information such as a straight highway portions along the route from the user s home S to the birthday party destination D . The kinetic mapping component may identify an ice cream store near the birthday party destination D as a fifth point of interest based upon a social network post indicating that a user would bring non melted ice cream to the birthday party. In this way various points of interest may be identified within the geospatial interface .

In an example a first portal comprises detour information associated with the first point of interest . The first portal may display the detour information at a first focused scale with a level of detail that may aid a user in easily navigating the detour to the on ramp e.g. a road closed indicator and a new route to the on ramp may be displayed . Because the first stretch of highway may be relatively uninteresting to the user the first stretch of highway may be displayed at the collapsed scale e.g. less detail and or smaller size than the first focused scale . A fourth portal comprising toy store information associated with the fourth point of interest may be displayed at a second focused scale with a level of detail that may aid the user in reaching a toy store and or returning to the highway e.g. a parking deck for the toy store may be displayed . Because the lake and the second stretch of highway may be relatively uninteresting to the user the lake and the second stretch of highway may be displayed at the collapsed scale. A second portal comprising deadman s curve information associated with the second point of interest may be displayed at a third focused scale with a level of detail that may aid a user in safely navigating the deadman s curve e.g. speed limits may be displayed . Because the third stretch of highway may be relatively uninteresting to the user the third stretch of highway may be displayed at the collapsed scale. A fifth portal comprising ice cream information for the fifth point of interest may be displayed at a fifth focused scale with a level of detail that may aid a user in locating an ice cream store. A third portal comprising birthday party driving directions associated with the third point of interest may be displayed at a third focused scale with a level of detail that may aid a user in reaching the birthday party destination e.g. turn by turn directions to a parking lot for a condo complex at which the birthday party is hosted .

In an example the first focused scale the second focused scale the third focused scale the fourth focused scale and or the fifth focused scale may have the same or different scales based upon user relevancy rankings for points of interests within corresponding portals. For example the first focused scale of the first portal may display information at a relatively higher granularity than the fourth focused scale for the fourth portal because the user may or may not have an interest in accessing the toy store e.g. the user may already have purchased a toy . In this way portals may be arranged sized and or adjust to various degrees of granularity within the kinetic geospatial interface . The relevance of points of interest may change over time and thus the respective scales of the portals may change as well. For example a location device such as GPS may indicate the location of the user along the route such that the first portal has the greatest degree of detail when the user is departing the user s home. The first portal may then e.g. proportionally shrink or show less detail while the fourth portal enlarges to show greater detail as the user gets closer to the fourth point of interest of the toy store e.g. because the toy store becomes more relevant to the user as the user approaches the toy store . Other portals may similarly grow and or shrink based upon the location of the user and or other factors that contribute to relevancy to the user. For example given the relevance of the third point of interest of the birthday party destination D to the entire trip the third portal may never shrink below a predetermined scale.

The kinetic mapping component may generate a kinetic geospatial interface comprising the first portal displayed according to a first focused scale the second portal displayed according to a second focused scale and the third portal displayed according to a third focused scale. Non portal information e.g. a highway between the park and Jen s condo and or other entities and geography not comprised within a portal may be displayed according to a collapsed scale having a level of granularity detail and or size that may be smaller than the first focused scale the second focused scale and or the third focused scale. In this way a user may easily identify images and or locations at which images were captured at a relatively higher level of detail because the non portal information e.g. uninteresting locations at which the user may not have captured images may be collapsed to a relatively smaller scale within the kinetic geospatial interface .

A Monday temporal indicator may be displayed for the first portal and the second portal based upon a travel itinerary indicating that the user will be at home and at the airport on Monday. A Tuesday temporal indicator may be displayed for a collapsed air flight indicator e.g. the collapsed air flight indicator may be displayed to indicate a change in transportation mode for the vacation and or to collapse a relatively large amount of uninteresting flight geography over a body of water based upon the travel itinerary indicating that the user will be flying on Tuesday. A Wednesday temporal indicator may be displayed for the third portal the first subportal and the second subportal based upon the travel itinerary indicating that the user will land at the airport and arrive at the resort on Wednesday. In this way the vacation may be displayed through the kinetic geospatial interface according to a temporal distribution.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

