---

title: Methods and systems for algorithmically balancing cost and performance of cellular data connections in multipurpose communications gateways
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide methods and systems for algorithmically balancing cost and performance of cellular data connections in multipurpose communications gateways and other cellular enabled devices. A preferred mode of operation is determined. The preferred mode of operation can be selected from a plurality of modes of operation, each one being-sensitive to cost, coverage, or bandwidth considerations, or any combination thereof. Balancing logic receives information from a multipurpose communications gateway or other cellular device and algorithmically balances cost and performance considerations based on the preferred mode of operation and the received information. The balancing logic can cause the communications gateway or other cellular device to automatically switch telecommunications carriers, plans, and/or cellular networks to achieve enhanced performance and reduced costs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066223&OS=09066223&RS=09066223
owner: Feeney Wireless, LLC
number: 09066223
owner_city: Eugene
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130813
---
This application claims the benefit of commonly assigned U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 693 753 filed Aug. 27 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application pertains to communication devices and more particularly to algorithmically balancing cost and performance of cellular data connections in multipurpose communications gateways.

Communications gateways use cellular data networks. The communications gateways incorporate cellular data modules which are typically used to provide data connectivity in both fixed and mobile customer applications. Such communications gateways can provide one or many data interfaces. A new industry term for the typical application scenarios where such gateways are used is M2M Machine to Machine or more colloquially The Internet of Things. 

Recent advances in available data throughput i.e. bandwidth on modern cellular networks such as 4G LTE long term evolution and WiMax networks have enabled the deployment of more data intensive applications and usage scenarios. In many cases such applications can only perform optimally when the communications gateway is connected to the highest performance cellular data network type available to it at a given location. As a result this has exposed issues in the algorithms and methodologies used to facilitate handover between cellular data network types. This can result in situations where a communications gateway or cellular data module can be effectively locked to using a slower network than what might otherwise be available because algorithms to facilitate the transitions between 2G 3G and 4G networks are unable to cope with the data usage patterns typical in customer application scenarios.

Conventional techniques do not account for the variability in the type of connectivity and related performance needed for efficient and cost effective operation of the communications gateway. Cost can be affected by amount of data consumed when it is consumed and the network type used. Access costs vary among different carriers. Data usage overage fees can result in significant additional monthly expense particularly when data usage of a given application cannot be well modeled or controlled. Manual control is cumbersome and often implemented by users too late to be effective in controlling costs.

Accordingly a need remains for improved methods and systems for algorithmically balancing cost and performance of cellular data connections in multipurpose communications gateways and other cellular enabled devices. Embodiments of the invention address these and other limitations in the prior art.

The foregoing and other features of the invention will become more readily apparent from the following detailed description which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the inventive concept examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to enable a thorough understanding of the inventive concept. It should be understood however that persons having ordinary skill in the art may practice the inventive concept without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first cellular network could be termed a second cellular network and similarly a second cellular network could be termed a first cellular network without departing from the scope of the inventive concept.

The terminology used in the description of the inventive concept herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the inventive concept. As used in the description of the inventive concept and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the present invention provide algorithms and methodology used to facilitate transitions between cellular data networks which can be used to optimize such transitions via the use of external or remote servers referred to herein as a remote server databases and or GPS global positioning system data or similar location data detailing location information of a communications gateway and or mobile cellular devices. The term cellular communications gateway is used herein to refer to a device or system that is configured to transmit or receive one or more cellular signals and or one or more short range signals. In addition to the cellular communications gateway it will be understood that a mobile cellular device such as a phone tablet mobile computer or any suitable mobile computing device can implement or include the inventive features described herein. The term mobile cellular device when used herein includes a cellular communications gateway a cellular enabled phone a cellular enabled tablet a cellular enabled mobile computer other mobile computing device or the like.

A carrier means a telecommunications carrier or provider. For example a telecommunications carrier may be AT T Sprint Verizon or the like.

A cellular network means a radio network distributed over geographic areas called cells each area served by a cellular transceiver sometimes referred to as a cell site or base station.

A network service type is a particular kind of protocol standard or type of network. For example network service types can include code division multiple access CDMA single carrier radio transmission technology 1xRTT enhanced voice data optimized EVDO global system for mobile communications GSM general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS high speed downlink packet access HSDPA high speed uplink packet access HSUPA high speed packet access HSPA evolved high speed packet access HSPA long term evolution LTE and worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX among others.

A plan means a telecommunications carrier plan which may include one or more features such as cost coverage bandwidth voice minutes data allowances voicemail and the like.

A telecommunications carrier can operate one or more cellular networks each cellular network capable of supporting one or more network service types such as those enumerated above. The term cellular network as used herein can refer to one or more cellular networks operated by a carrier. Using industry parlance sometimes the term cellular network or network can refer to the network service type rather than the physical cellular network itself. It will be understood that as used herein the term cellular network or network can refer to either the physical cellular network owned and or operated by a carrier or a particular network service type or any combination thereof.

The mobile cellular device can collect and periodically transmit cellular network service type signal strength and location data to one or more remote servers for storage in a database. The one or more remote servers can receive a query from the mobile cellular device to determine the types of network services available to the mobile cellular device at a particular location. The mobile cellular device can then be programmed to intelligently transition to a faster higher coverage and or more cost effective data network connection based upon balancing logic and associated algorithms as described in further detail below. In addition a spot price for cellular network access measured by minutes of time or units of data can be broadcast or otherwise transmitted from one or more cellular network carriers to a remote server and or the mobile cellular device. Intelligent logic embedded in the remote server and or the mobile cellular device can use the spot price information to determine the most efficient and cost effective configuration including which network service type and specific carrier to connect to as also further described below.

The remote server s database can be dynamically updated with data collected by the cellular enabled mobile device e.g. communications gateways phones tablets and the like and or with data obtained via the cellular network providers or carriers themselves. The rate plans and or mobile cellular device configurations can be dynamically and automatically changed based upon certain algorithms for balancing performance and cost customized for specific applications. Such algorithms can be implemented using a server which receives traffic and bandwidth usage information for example from a cellular data enabled device such as a communications gateway or cellular phone. The server can also receive usage information pertaining to application programming interfaces APIs and or data feeds from the carriers themselves which provide visibility and control of rate plans. The server can include balancing logic which can include or otherwise be implanted by software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to execute balancing algorithms for balancing between highest performance and lowest cost for a given application as further described below.

The balancing logic and associated algorithms can cause device data usage to be automatically adjusted for off peak times. Moreover the balancing logic and associated algorithms can cause a mobile cellular device to automatically select a slower data network service type when bandwidth demands allow for a reduction of costs. In addition the balancing logic and associated algorithms can cause a mobile cellular device to automatically move between carriers based upon a lowest rate plan. The balancing logic and associated algorithms can also automatically disable device data access capabilities to prevent exceeding usage or cost thresholds.

Further the mobile cellular device can include one or more controllable or software defined radio modules. In one embodiment the mobile cellular device includes a single controllable or software defined radio module which can be instructed or otherwise controlled to move between cellular network carriers. In another embodiment the mobile cellular device includes multiple cellular modules with each cellular module being associated with a cellular network and or carrier. In yet another embodiment where the mobile cellular device includes multiple controllable cellular modules a single cellular module from among the multiple cellular modules is used to move between two or more cellular networks and or carriers.

The embodiments described herein thus facilitate optimal usage of multiple data networks from one or more mobile cellular devices.

A multipurpose cellular communications gateway can include a cellular antenna a GPS antenna and balancing logic . The balancing logic can be implemented by software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The communication gateway can access multiple cellular networks e.g. and or via one or more cellular antennas . The communications gateway can receive location coordinates via one or more GPS antennas . The communication gateway can transmit traffic information signal strength information signal quality information network type information network reliability i.e. packet loss information network service type information location coordinates i.e. received via the antenna and or bandwidth usage information to remote server via one or more of the cellular networks e.g. and and or via the IP network .

Moreover mobile cellular devices which may include a smart phone tablet laptop computer and the like can include balancing logic such as the balancing logic of the cellular communications gateway . The mobile cellular devices may also include one or more cellular antennas and or one or more GPS antennas. The mobile devices can transmit traffic information signal strength information signal quality information network type information network reliability i.e. packet loss information network service type information location coordinates i.e. received via the GPS antenna and or bandwidth usage information to remote server via one or more of the cellular networks e.g. and and or via the IP network .

The remote server can include balancing logic which is separate from the balancing logic located on the cellular communications gateway and the mobile devices . The remote server can receive the traffic information signal strength information signal quality information network type information network reliability i.e. packet loss information network service type information location coordinates and or bandwidth usage information and the balancing logic can execute balancing algorithms for balancing between highest performance and or lowest cost networks and or carriers e.g. carriers and or based on the received information. The traffic signal strength signal quality network type network reliability i.e. packet loss network service type location coordinates bandwidth and other information received from the cellular communications gateway and the mobile devices can be stored in a database for later access.

Moreover the remote server can access information directly from the carriers via APIs which the carriers may expose to trusted partners. The traffic signal strength signal quality network type network reliability i.e. packet loss location coordinates bandwidth and other information accessed from the carrier can be accessed via the APIs and or stored in the database for later access.

Each carrier may have associated therewith one or more carrier plans. For example carrier may have data plans and . Carrier may have data plans and . And carrier may have data plans and . The telecommunications carrier plans can vary by cost coverage bandwidth minutes feature sets and the like. The remote server can have visibility of the different telecommunications carrier plans from multiple carriers either pre programmed or accessed automatically through the carrier APIs. For example the remote server may make API calls to the carrier using API over the IP network . Similarly the remote server may make API calls to the carrier using API . The remote server may also make API calls to the carrier using API and so forth for any suitable number of carriers.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the carriers may broadcast or push spot prices e.g. and for cellular network access. The spot price may be a monetary unit per unit of data e.g. kilobyte or megabyte a monetary unit per minute of usage e.g. minute a monetary unit per second of usage e.g. second a monetary unit per hour of usage e.g. hour and so forth. The spot prices correspond to the current price the carrier is offering for access to their network. The spot price can change periodically or continually. Each carrier can have a unique spot price depending on the economics of operating the associated cellular network and the time of day e.g. off peak times in the early morning may have a lower spot price than peak times during the day and so forth the technology being used by the carriers the market penetration by the carriers the economies of scale and so forth.

The spot prices e.g. and may be pushed by the various carriers e.g. and to the remote server via the APIs and or via the IP network . Similarly the spot prices may be pushed to the cellular communications gateway and or the mobile cellular devices over a corresponding cellular network e.g. and .

The spot prices e.g. and may also be pulled from the carriers e.g. and . For example the remote server may periodically request or pull spot prices from the various carriers and receive those over the IP network. Similarly the cellular communications gateway and or the mobile cellular devices can periodically request or pull the spot prices from the various carriers over the corresponding cellular networks.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the remote server can determine a mode in which the communications gateway and or mobile cellular devices should operate. In some embodiments a preferred mode is designated by a network operator or requested by a customer. In other embodiments the mode is automatically selected and applied by the remote server . After the mode is determined or applied the balancing logic of the remote server can balance cost considerations coverage considerations and or bandwidth considerations based on the selected mode. The balancing determinations can be made based on considerations of bandwidth network coverage spot prices access cost and or location of the cellular communications gateway or other cellular device .

After the balancing determinations are made based on the selected mode the remote server can transmit a command to the cellular communications gateway or other cellular devices to instruct it to switch from one carrier to another to switch from one cellular network to another to switch from one telecommunications carrier plan to another telecommunications carrier plan and or to disable the cellular communications gateway or other cellular devices to prevent exceeding usage thresholds thereby advantageously balancing cost and performance.

Alternatively the balancing logic of the communications gateway device or the mobile devices themselves can access information from the carriers via APIs such as spot prices network type network service type network reliability i.e. packet loss bandwidth etc. and or can also use the information it already has such as traffic information signal strength information signal quality information network type information network service type network reliability i.e. packet loss information bandwidth usage information and location coordinates to determine the most advantageous balancing algorithm based on the selected mode of operation. The balancing logic can then cause the communications gateway device or mobile cellular devices to switch from one carrier to another to switch from one cellular network to another to switch from one telecommunications carrier plan to another telecommunications carrier plan and or to disable the cellular communications gateway or other cellular devices to prevent exceeding usage thresholds thereby advantageously balancing cost and performance.

Alternatively or in addition the balancing logic of the remote server may produce rules and periodically transmit the rules to the communications gateway and or the mobile devices . The rules provide guidelines or instructions to the communications gateway pertaining to for example whether and when to switch from one carrier to another whether and when to switch from one cellular network to another and or whether and when to switch from one telecommunications carrier plan to another.

The rules can be produced based on information received from the communications gateway and or the mobile devices . For example if the remote server receives information that the communications gateway or mobile devices are in a particular region or town for example it may send rules to the communications gateway or mobile devices specific to the available coverage options available cellular networks and or available telecommunications carrier plans relative to that particular region or town.

The balancing logic can make decisions based on the rules independent of remote server during at least the periods between receiving the rules . In other words the communications gateway or individual mobile devices can act more autonomously because the remote server need not send real time commands to maintain the desired balancing. In this manner a reduction in the frequency of communications between the communications gateway and the remote server is achieved. If the communications gateway is transferred or is moved to a different region or town the remote server can send new rules specific to the new region or town thereby maintaining accuracy in the application of the rules to particular geographic regions.

The remote server can also build or maintain a dynamic coverage map . The dynamic coverage map can track signal strength signal quality network type network service type network reliability i.e. packet loss bandwidth usage and the like of individual cellular enabled devices relative to their individual location coordinates. The dynamic coverage map can be combined with other information received from the communications gateways or other cellular enabled devices with information received from the carriers and or with other analytics information so that the balancing logic can more effectively balance and automate between the various cost and performance factors to achieve an optimal configuration. Such information can be mapped displayed and analyzed.

The remote server can maintain and manage pools of devices and or telecommunications carrier plans from among one or more carriers. Such pooling can be used to automatically allocate the lowest cost or highest performing networks or plans based on the balancing algorithms. For example the balancing logic can select a plan from among the pool of plans according to predefined criteria such as the lowest cost and or highest performing plan from among the pool of plans and cause a rule or instruction to be transmitted to the mobile cellular devices to obtain cellular access through the selected plan. In this manner customer costs are decreased. By way of another example the remote server can detect when a particular mobile cellular device is nearing the end of a billing cycle and automatically make adjustments near the end of a billing cycle to the mobile cellular device so that it ceases accessing the cellular network. For example an instruction can be transmitted from the remote server to the mobile cellular device to temporarily disable access to any cellular network for a predefined period of time for example until the beginning of the next billing cycle. The end of a billing cycle is a vulnerable time to the user because of possible minutes overages or data limit overages. In this manner excess charges can be avoided or even eliminated.

In addition to the individual modes hybrid or balanced modes can also be applied. For example a balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode can balance the primary objectives of good coverage and cost sensitivity. Such a mode places less importance on bandwidth sensitivities. By way of another example a balanced cost and bandwidth mode can be applied which balances the objectives of high bandwidth and lower cost while discounting the importance of network coverage. By way of yet another example a balanced coverage and bandwidth mode can be applied which primarily balances the interests of good coverage and high bandwidth while deemphasizing cost. Finally a fully combined balanced mode can equally balance the needs of coverage cost and bandwidth.

In the fully combined balanced mode if data associated one of the three elements of consideration i.e. coverage cost and bandwidth significantly diverges from the other two then the divergent element may tilt the balancing logic toward that element. For example in the fully combined balanced mode if cost is considerably lower than usual while the coverage and bandwidth are in typical ranges the cost element may weigh in favor of selecting the low cost carrier. This can be determined by comparing the cost to predetermined threshold by averaging weighting and or other suitable methods as further described below.

Each of the categories or elements of consideration can have associated therewith their own predetermined thresholds. In this manner the balancing logic can determine where the current operational levels of coverage cost and bandwidth fall relative to the predefined thresholds by comparing the current levels to the predetermined thresholds for each of the categories and then select the carrier and or plan based on the results of the comparisons.

Such determinations can be made by the balancing logic of the remote server and or the balancing logic of the communications gateway or other cellular devices and applied to the communications gateway or other cellular devices so that overall desired performance and cost savings are achieved.

When the communications gateway or other cellular devices are programmed or otherwise instructed to operate in accordance with a given mode changes can automatically be made on the communications gateway and or the cellular devices based on the balancing logic to the particular cellular network being used the particular carrier being used and or the particular carrier plan being used.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a cost sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of A. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of A. In the cost sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare the cost grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best cellular access grade. For example given that the cost grade of A for combination is superior to the cost grade of B for combination and superior to the cost grade of C for combination i.e. 4 3 2 the combination is selected at because it has the lowest cost for accessing the network.

This selection is made even though the coverage grade of combination is inferior to the coverage grade of combination and even though the bandwidth grade of combination is inferior to the bandwidth grades of the other combinations and . Since the mode in this embodiment is a cost sensitive mode the cost element controls in the automatic selection while the coverage and bandwidth grades are discounted and or need not be included in the analysis.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a coverage sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of A. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of A. In the coverage sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare the coverage grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best grade. For example given that the coverage grade of A for combination is superior to the coverage grade of B for combination and superior to the coverage grade of C for combination i.e. 4 3 2 the combination is selected at because it has the best coverage e.g. geographical coverage signal strength etc. for accessing the network.

This selection is made even though the cost grade of combination is inferior to the cost grade of the other combinations and . Since the mode in this embodiment is a coverage sensitive mode the coverage element controls in the automatic selection.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a bandwidth sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of B. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of D. In the bandwidth sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare the bandwidth grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best grade. For example given that the bandwidth grade of B for combination is superior to the bandwidth grade of C for combination i.e. 3 2 and superior to the bandwidth grade of D for combination i.e. 3 1 the combination is selected at because it has the highest bandwidth for accessing the network.

This selection is made even though the coverage grade of combination is inferior to the coverage grades of combinations and and even though the cost grade of combination is inferior to the cost grade of combination . Since the mode in this embodiment is a bandwidth sensitive mode the bandwidth element controls in the automatic selection while the coverage and cost grades are discounted and or need not be included in the analysis.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of B. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of D. In the balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare both the coverage and cost grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best overall average grade or balance of coverage and cost.

For example the coverage grade of is B i.e. 3 and the cost grade of is A i.e. 4 . The balancing logic can compute an average of the cost and coverage grades. For example the average can be 3.5 i.e. 4 3 2 . Similarly averages can be computed for combinations and . For combination the coverage grade is C i.e. 2 and the cost grade is B i.e. 3 and so the average of the cost and coverage grades is 2.5 i.e. 2 3 2 . For combination the coverage grade is A i.e. 4 and the cost grade is C i.e. 2 and so the average of the cost and coverage grades is 3 i.e. 4 2 2 . Given that the average of 3.5 for combination is greater than the both of the other averages the combination can be automatically selected. If weights are used then the weights can be multiplied with the individual grades or scores prior to the averaging computation i.e. 4X 3Y 2 where X and Y are weights .

The selection of combination is made even though the bandwidth grade of combination is inferior to the bandwidth grade of combination . Since the mode in this embodiment is a balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode the coverage and cost elements control in the automatic selection while the bandwidth grade is discounted and or need not be balanced or included in the analysis.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of B. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of D. In the balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare both the cost and bandwidth grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best overall average grade or balance of cost and bandwidth.

For example the cost grade of combination is A i.e. 4 and the bandwidth grade of combination is B i.e. 3 . The balancing logic can compute an average of the cost and bandwidth grades. For example the average can be 3.5 i.e. 4 3 2 . Similarly averages can be computed for combinations and . For combination the cost grade is A i.e. 4 and the bandwidth grade is C i.e. 2 and so the average of the cost and bandwidth grades is 3 i.e. 4 2 2 . For combination the cost grade is C i.e. 2 and the bandwidth grade is D i.e. 1 and so the average of the cost and bandwidth grades is 1.5 i.e. 2 1 2 . Given that the average of 3.5 for combination is greater than the both of the other averages the combination can be automatically selected. If weights are used then the weights can be multiplied with the individual grades or scores prior to the averaging computation i.e. 4Y 3Z 2 where Y and Z are weights .

The selection of combination is made even though the coverage grade of combination is inferior to the coverage grades of the other combinations and . Since the mode in this embodiment is a balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode the cost and bandwidth elements control in the automatic selection while the coverage grade is discounted and or need not be balanced or included in the analysis.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of B. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of C. In the balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare both the coverage and bandwidth grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best overall average grade or balance of coverage and bandwidth.

For example the coverage grade of combination is A i.e. 4 and the bandwidth grade of combination is C i.e. 2 . The balancing logic can compute an average of the coverage and bandwidth grades. For example the average can be 3 i.e. 4 2 2 . Similarly averages can be computed for combinations and . For combination the coverage grade is B i.e. 3 and the bandwidth grade is C i.e. 2 and so the average of the coverage and bandwidth grades is 2.5 i.e. 3 2 2 . For combination the coverage grade is C i.e. 2 and the bandwidth grade is B i.e. 3 and so the average of the coverage and bandwidth grades is 2.5 i.e. 3 2 2 . Given that the average of 3 for combination is greater than the both of the other averages the combination can be automatically selected. If weights are used then the weights can be multiplied with the individual grades or scores prior to the averaging computation i.e. 4X 2Z 2 where X and Z are weights .

The selection of combination is made even though the cost grade of combination is inferior to the cost grades of the other combinations and . Since the mode in this embodiment is a balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode the coverage and bandwidth elements control in the automatic selection while the cost grade is discounted and or need not be balanced or included in the analysis.

Different cellular access grades can be assigned to the characteristics of coverage cost and bandwidth of a particular combination. For example combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. It will be understood that grade letters A B C etc. are examples of cellular access grades and are chosen here to simplify the description. Instead of cellular access grades cellular access scores e.g. integers or floating point numbers or thresholds can also be used. Weights can also be added e.g. AX BY CZ where X Y and Z are weights that can be multiplied with A B and C respectively so that one of the elements of coverage cost and bandwidth is given more or less influence over the others. The weights can be any suitable integer or floating point number. For the purpose of explaining the inventive principals herein an A is considered equivalent to a value of 4 a B to a value of 3 a C to a value of 2 and a D to a value of 1 where higher values are superior to lower values.

Referring to a scenario is shown in which a balanced coverage cost and bandwidth sensitive mode is the selected or preferred mode. As can be seen combination has a coverage grade of B a cost grade of A and a bandwidth grade of C. Combination has a coverage grade of C a cost grade of B and a bandwidth grade of B. Combination has a coverage grade of A a cost grade of C and a bandwidth grade of D. In the balanced coverage cost and bandwidth sensitive mode the balancing logic can compare all of the coverage cost and bandwidth grades among the various combinations and select the combination having the best overall average grade or balance of coverage cost and bandwidth.

For example the coverage grade of combination is B i.e. 3 the cost grade of combination is A i.e. 4 the bandwidth grade of combination is C i.e. 2 . The balancing logic can compute an average of the coverage cost and bandwidth grades. For example the average can be 3 i.e. 3 4 2 3 . Similarly averages can be computed for combinations and . For combination the coverage grade is C i.e. 2 the cost grade is B i.e. 3 and the bandwidth grade is B i.e. 3 and so the average of the coverage cost and bandwidth grades is 2.67 i.e. 2 3 3 3 . For combination the coverage grade is A i.e. 4 the cost grade is C i.e. 2 and the bandwidth grade is D i.e. 1 and so the average of the coverage cost and bandwidth grades is 2.33 i.e. 4 2 1 3 . Given that the average of 3 for combination is greater than the both of the other averages the combination can be automatically selected. If weights are used then the weights can be multiplied with the individual grades or scores prior to the averaging computation i.e. 3X 4Y 2Z 3 where X Y and Z are weights .

Since the mode in this embodiment is a balanced coverage cost and bandwidth sensitive mode all of the coverage cost and bandwidth elements control in the automatic selection.

The flow begins at where a preferred mode of operation is selected or otherwise determined. The flow proceeds to where cellular operational characteristics are received from one or more mobile cellular devices. At cost and performance of the cellular data connections of the one or more mobile cellular devices are algorithmically balanced based on the preferred mode of operation and the received cellular operational characteristics.

Determining the preferred mode of operation can include selecting a mode of operation from among a multitude of modes of operation. The flow can proceed along one of a number of paths representing modes of operation such as the coverage sensitive mode of operation the cost sensitive mode of operation the bandwidth sensitive mode of operation the balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode of operation the balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation the balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation and or the balanced coverage cost and bandwidth mode of operation .

The flow then proceeds to where 1st through Nth combinations of 1 telecommunications carriers 2 telecommunication carrier plans and 3 telecommunication carrier networks are determined. At a cellular access grade e.g. highest average grade is determined for each of the 1st through Nth combinations based on the selected mode of operation. At one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having a superior cellular access grade than the other combinations is selected.

It will be understood that the elements and determinations illustrated in the flow diagrams of need not occur in the order as illustrated but rather different elements and determinations can be interposed between the ones illustrated or appear in a different order.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for algorithmically balancing cost and performance of cellular data connections the method comprising determining a preferred mode of operation receiving from one or more mobile cellular devices a plurality of cellular operational characteristics and algorithmically balancing cost and performance of the cellular data connections of the one or more mobile cellular devices based on the preferred mode of operation and the received cellular operational characteristics.

Determining the preferred mode of operation may include selecting a mode of operation from among a plurality of modes of operation wherein the plurality of modes of operation include a coverage sensitive mode of operation a cost sensitive mode of operation and a bandwidth sensitive mode of operation.

The plurality of modes of operation may further include a balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode of operation a balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation a balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation and a balanced coverage cost and bandwidth mode of operation.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for determining 1st through Nth combinations of 1 telecommunications carriers 2 telecommunication carrier plans and 3 telecommunication carrier networks.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the coverage sensitive mode of operation comparing a coverage grade of each of the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having a coverage grade that is superior to the coverage grade of the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the cost sensitive mode of operation comparing a cost grade of each of the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having a cost grade that is superior to the cost grade of the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the bandwidth sensitive mode of operation comparing a bandwidth grade of each of the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having a bandwidth grade that is superior to the cost grade of the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for automatically switching from one telecommunications carrier to another based on the selected mode of operation and the received cellular operational characteristics.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for automatically switching from one telecommunications network to another based on the selected mode of operation and the received cellular operational characteristics.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the balanced coverage and cost sensitive mode of operation generating a plurality of averages each average corresponding to an average of a coverage grade and a cost grade for one of the 1st through Nth combinations comparing the plurality of averages associated with the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having an average that is superior to the averages associated with the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the balanced cost and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation generating a plurality of averages each average corresponding to an average of a cost grade and a bandwidth grade for one of the 1st through Nth combinations comparing the plurality of averages associated with the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having an average that is superior to the averages associated with the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the balanced coverage and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation generating a plurality of averages each average corresponding to an average of a coverage grade and a bandwidth grade for one of the 1st through Nth combinations comparing the plurality of averages associated with the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having an average that is superior to the averages associated with the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for selecting the balanced coverage cost and bandwidth sensitive mode of operation generating a plurality of averages each average corresponding to an average of a coverage grade a cost grade and a bandwidth grade for one of the 1st through Nth combinations comparing the plurality of averages associated with the 1st through Nth combinations to each other and selecting one combination from among the 1st through Nth combinations having an average that is superior to the averages associated with the other combinations from among the 1st through Nth combinations.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for managing a pool of telecommunications carrier plans from among one or more telecommunications carriers automatically selecting a plan from among the pool of plans according to predefined criteria and transmitting a rule to the one or more mobile cellular devices instructing the one or more mobile cellular devices to obtain cellular access through the selected plan.

Some embodiments include a device system and or method for detecting by a remote server that the one or more mobile cellular devices is nearing an end of a billing cycle and transmitting an instruction to the one or more mobile cellular devices to temporarily disable access to any cellular network until the beginning of a next billing cycle.

The following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable machine or machines in which certain aspects of the invention can be implemented. Typically the machine or machines include a system bus to which is attached processors memory e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other state preserving medium storage devices a video interface and input output interface ports. The machine or machines can be controlled at least in part by input from conventional input devices such as keyboards mice etc. as well as by directives received from another machine interaction with a virtual reality VR environment biometric feedback or other input signal. As used herein the term machine is intended to broadly encompass a single machine a virtual machine or a system of communicatively coupled machines virtual machines or devices operating together. Exemplary machines include computing devices such as personal computers workstations servers portable computers handheld devices telephones tablets etc. as well as transportation devices such as private or public transportation e.g. automobiles trains cabs etc.

The machine or machines can include embedded controllers such as programmable or non programmable logic devices or arrays Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs embedded computers smart cards and the like. The machine or machines can utilize one or more connections to one or more remote machines such as through a network interface modem or other communicative coupling. Machines can be interconnected by way of a physical and or logical network such as an intranet the Internet local area networks wide area networks etc. One skilled in the art will appreciated that network communication can utilize various wired and or wireless short range or long range carriers and protocols including radio frequency RF satellite microwave Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 545.11 Bluetooth optical infrared cable laser etc.

Embodiments of the invention can be described by reference to or in conjunction with associated data including functions procedures data structures application programs etc. which when accessed by a machine results in the machine performing tasks or defining abstract data types or low level hardware contexts. Associated data can be stored in for example the volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM ROM etc. or in other storage devices and their associated storage media including hard drives floppy disks optical storage tapes flash memory memory sticks digital video disks biological storage etc. Associated data can be delivered over transmission environments including the physical and or logical network in the form of packets serial data parallel data propagated signals etc. and can be used in a compressed or encrypted format. Associated data can be used in a distributed environment and stored locally and or remotely for machine access.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles and can be combined in any desired manner. And although the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments other configurations are contemplated. In particular even though expressions such as according to an embodiment of the invention or the like are used herein these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein these terms can reference the same or different embodiments that are combinable into other embodiments.

Embodiments of the invention may include a non transitory machine readable medium comprising instructions executable by one or more processors the instructions comprising instructions to perform the elements of the inventive concepts as described herein.

Consequently in view of the wide variety of permutations to the embodiments described herein this detailed description and accompanying material is intended to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. What is claimed as the invention therefore is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

