---

title: Communication of security key information
abstract: Technology for communicating security key information from a macro eNB is disclosed. Security key information associated with the macro evolved node B (eNB) may be determined. The security key information may be used to cipher information communicated at the first eNB. A small eNB may be identified at the macro eNB to generate the security key information associated with the macro eNB for ciphering information communicated at the second eNB. The security key information may be communicated, from the macro eNB, to the small eNB for inter-Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (EUTRA) evolved node B (eNB) carrier aggregation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313802&OS=09313802&RS=09313802
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09313802
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 753 914 filed Jan. 17 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices is through the use carrier aggregation of multiple smaller bandwidths to form a virtual wideband channel at a wireless device e.g. UE . In carrier aggregation CA multiple component carriers CC can be aggregated and jointly used for transmission to from a single terminal. Carrier aggregation provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or communicating large data files.

Carriers can be signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier can be determined by the aggregated carrier s bandwidth in the frequency domain. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations can become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains. In addition the downlink CC may include a primary cell and or up to four secondary cells in carrier aggregation. Each serving cell i.e. the primary cell and up to the four secondary cells can be independently configured by radio resource control RRC signaling. In addition the term small cell may refer to a low power node. 

A technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices may include using inter Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access EUTRA evolved node B eNB carrier aggregation CA . While all serving cells are served by the same eNB in Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Release 11 the serving cells may be operated in different eNBs in inter EUTRA eNB CA. For example the primary cell or PCell may be served from a macro cell and the secondary cell SCell may be served from a pico cell. The macro cell may be associated with a macro eNB and the pico cell may be associated with a pico eNB.

Since the coverage of the macro cell is greater than coverage of the pico cell the UE may be handed over to the macro cell or to another pico cell if the UE is only connected to the pico cell. On the other hand if the UE is connected to the macro cell then handover is not required but offloading to the pico cell cannot be provided. Therefore to achieve offloading and to avoid frequent handover carrier aggregation may be used i.e. the UE is served by both the macro cell and the pico cell. In one example the primary cell can be associated with the macro cell and the secondary cell can be associated with the pico cell.

Since the primary cell is responsible for mobility management the UE does not need to handover as long as the UE is moving within the macro cell. As shown in the example in when the UE enters pico cell 1 or enters pico cell 2 handover may not be performed. In addition the secondary cell associated with the pico cell may be used for data transmission and the UE may take advantage of offloading to the pico cell. Thus the change from pico cell 1 to pico cell 2 as shown in can be supported with the additional removal of the secondary cell instead of handover. While the macro cell and the pico cell are served by the different eNBs and connected via an X2 interface in inter EUTRA eNB CA all of the serving cells are served by the same eNB in 3GPP LTE Release 10 CA.

A radio bearer RB may be used to transfer data between the UE and the E UTRAN. The RB may include a signaling radio bearer SRB and a data radio bearer DRB . The SRB may be a radio bearer carrying Radio Resource Control RRC signaling messages. The DRB may be a radio bearer which transmits user data as opposed to control plane signaling. The SRB in a control plane may be supported between the macro cell and the MME. The DRB in the user plane may be supported by two approaches. The first approach as shown by the dashed line in uses a new S1 bearer between the small cell and a serving gateway S GW . The second approach as shown by the dotted line in uses an X2 interface to forward the data to the S GW. In the second approach no new S1 bearer is needed between the small cell and the S GW.

The S1 based protocol may include the PDCP layer winch is the top sublayer of the LTE user plane layer 2 protocol stack. The PDCP layer processes Radio Resource Control RRC messages in the control plane and Internet Protocol IP packets in the user plane. Depending on the radio bearer the main functions of the PDCP layer are header compression security integrity protection and ciphering and support for reordering and retransmission during handover.

The S1 based protocol may include the RLC layer which is located between the PDCP layer and the MAC layer in the LTE user plane protocol stack. The main functions of the RLC layer are segmentation and reassembly of upper layer packets in order to adapt the upper layer packets to a size appropriate for transmission over the radio interface. In addition the RLC layer performs reordering to compensate for out of order reception due to Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request HARQ operation in the MAC layer.

The S1 based protocol may include the MAC layer which is the protocol layer above the physical layer PHY and below the RLC layer in the LTE protocol stack. The MAC layer connects to the PHY through transport channels and connects to the RLC layer through logical channels. The MAC layer performs data transmission scheduling and multiplexing demultiplexing between logical channels and transport channels.

In LTE ciphering and integrity is used to protect data being received from a third party or to detect changes made by the third party. In general integrity refers to a receiver verifying that a received message is the same message as communicated by the transmitter sender whereas ciphering refers to the transmitter sender encrypting the data with a security key that is known by the receiver. In the access stratum AS layer ciphering and integrity are applied for RRC signaling data i.e. control plane data and only ciphering is applied for user data i.e. user plane data or DRB data . The RRC layer is responsible for handling AS security keys and AS security procedure. In addition the PDCP layer performs integrity and ciphering of the RRC signaling data and ciphering of the user plane data.

A different security key is used for ciphering and integrity in the control plane and the data user plane. The security keys may include K K and K. Kis a security key used for the protection of user plane traffic with a particular encryption algorithm. Kis a security key used for the protection of RRC traffic with a particular integrity algorithm. Kis a security key used for the protection of RRC traffic with a particular encryption algorithm.

In general the security keys K K and K. Kmay be generated from the security key K. For example Kand Kmay be derived at a mobile equipment ME and the eNB from K as well as an identifier for the encryption algorithm. Kmay be derived at the ME and the eNB from K as well as an identifier for the integrity algorithm. In addition the AS may derive the Kfrom a K which is a common secret security key available in both the UE and the network.

In Release 10 CA the primary cell is responsible to provide the security key K . Since all serving cells are located in the same eNB in Release 10 CA and the PDCP layer is defined per radio bearer RB regardless of the number of serving cells a single security key may be used for carrier aggregation. However in inter EUTRA eNB CA each eNB uses the security key to perform ciphering of data in the PDCP layer. As explained in further detail below security key management may enable the eNBs to share the same security key or alternatively to use different security keys when performing ciphering of data in the PDCP layer.

Security key management may be performed in inter EUTRA eNB CA if the PDCP layer of radio bearers RBs is located in the different eNBs. For example the macro eNB may be associated with the macro cell and the small eNB e.g. the pico eNB may be associated with the small cell e.g. the pico cell . Since the data radio bearer is configured in the small cell user plane ciphering may be performed with the ciphering key K. Alternatively if the signaling radio bearer SRB is configured in the small cell control plane ciphering and integrity may be performed with the ciphering keys Kand K.

In one configuration the small eNB may generate the same security key as used at the macro eNB. Thus Kis provided to the small eNB for generating the same security key as used at the macro eNB. The small cell associated with the small eNB can be added as a secondary cell and a newly dedicated radio bearer can be established for the small cell. As an example a macro cell and a secondary cell may be used for carrier aggregation. An additional small cell may be added as an additional secondary cell. Therefore the macro cell and two secondary cells may be used for carrier aggregation. The same security key may be shared between the three eNBs associated with the macro cell and the two secondary cells. In other words the two small eNBs associated with the two secondary cells may generate the same security key as used by the macro eNB. In addition a new dedicated radio bearer can be established for the additional secondary cell.

At least two approaches may be implemented when a small cell is added as a secondary cell and the new dedicated radio bearer is established for the small cell. In the first approach the MME may communicate a S1 application protocol S1AP message to the small eNB. The S1AP message may configure an S1 bearer between the small eNB and the S GW. The S1AP message may be directly communicated from the MME to the small eNB. Alternatively the macro eNB may receive the S1AP message from the MME and forward the S1AP message to the small eNB. The MME may provide the security information K via the S1AP message during an S1 bearer setup procedure. The small eNB may determine the security key Kfrom Kin the access stratum AS level.

In the second approach the macro eNB may communicate an X2 application protocol X2AP message to the small eNB. The X2AP message may contain instructions to add the small eNB as the secondary cell. The X2AP message may be communicated over an X2 interface. Thus the macro eNB may provide K or K to the small eNB via the X2AP message for configuration of the secondary cell. Thus the security key Kused at the small eNB is the same security key as used at the macro eNB.

In an alternative configuration the small cell can be added as the secondary cell and an existing dedicated radio bearer can be reconfigured to be switched to the small cell. The existing dedicated radio bearer can be reconfigured in response to the small eNB generating the same security key as used at the macro eNB. In other words path switching occurs from one small cell to another small cell i.e. the new small cell . As an example a macro cell and a first small cell may be used for carrier aggregation. A second small cell e.g. a small cell that is different than the first small cell may be added such that the second small cell is used in conjunction with the first small cell and the macro cell for carrier aggregation. The second small cell may also be known as the new small cell. Thus the eNB associated with the second small cell may generate the same security key as used at the eNB associated with the first small cell.

At least two approaches may be described when a small cell is added as a secondary cell and the existing dedicated radio bearer is reconfigured to be switched to the small cell. In the first approach the macro eNB may communicate an X2AP message to the new small eNB. The X2AP message may contain the security key K or K . In other words the new small eNB may generate the same security key as used at the macro eNB.

In the second approach a source small eNB e.g. an old small eNB may communicate the X2AP message to the new small eNB. The X2AP message may contain the security key K or K . In other words an interface between the source small eNB and the new small eNB may be used to communicate the X2AP message. Thus the new small eNB may generate the same security key as used at the source small eNB.

If the same security key is used there may be minimal impact on the UE that is performing ciphering even if a new secondary cell is added and a new DRB is established. In addition the macro eNB or the small eNB may not report the update of security information to the MME.

In one configuration the macro eNB and the small eNB may use different security keys. For example the small eNB may generate a security key that is different than the security key used at the macro eNB. In another example a plurality of small eNBs used in conjunction with the macro eNB for carrier aggregation may each generate a security key that is different than the security keys used by the other small eNBs and the macro eNB.

In one configuration the macro eNB may provide the security key K to the small eNB. The security key K may become the security key Kof the small cell. The macro eNB may generate the security key K using the security key K a physical cell identity and a EUTRA absolute radio frequency channel number downlink EARFCN DL of the small cell. In general the absolute radio frequency channel number ARFCN may define a pair of radio frequency RF channel frequencies for uplink and downlink use. Alternatively the macro eNB may generate the security key K using a next hop NH parameter as used for security key handling during handover. The macro eNB may provide the security key K to the small eNB such that the macro eNB and the small eNB use different security keys.

Since the MME may store security key information used in the eNB and the UE the macro eNB and or the small eNB may notify the MME of updated security information. For example the small eNB may notify the MME after receiving the different security key e.g. K from the macro eNB. Alternatively the macro eNB may notify the MME after sending the different security key e.g. K to the small eNB.

As shown in the macro eNB may communicate a secondary cell addition request message to the small eNB. In response the small eNB may communicate a secondary cell addition request acknowledgement ACK message to the macro eNB. The secondary cell addition ACK message may include one or more security algorithm identifiers for the selected security algorithms. The security algorithm identifiers may be used to generate K K etc. using the security key K. In other words the secondary cell e.g. the small eNB may send the security algorithm identifiers to the primary cell e.g. the macro eNB . The macro eNB may communicate security information such as the security algorithm identifiers to the UE via the RRC connection reconfiguration message. In addition the RRC connection reconfiguration message may contain instructions to add the small cell as the secondary cell. Thus the UE may receive user data from the macro eNB in conjunction with the small eNB through carrier aggregation.

In one configuration the UE may store and apply multiple security keys when multiple security keys are used in inter EUTRA eNB CA. The UE may apply different security keys depending on the type of radio bearer. For example Kis the security key for the macro eNB and Kis the security key for the small eNB. Kis the same security key as K which is provided to the small eNB from the macro eNB. Thus Kis used for the signaling radio bearers SRBs and the data radio bearer DRB 1 which are configured in the macro cell. In addition Kis used for DRB2 and DRB3 which are configured in the small cell.

In one configuration a COUNT value may be used in integrity and ciphering in the PDCP layer. The COUNT value may include a hyper frame number HFN and a PDCP sequence number SN . The HFN is a number which is incremented in relation to the PDCP sequence number. The HFN is included in the PDCP protocol data unit PDU counter for ciphering.

In one example ciphering failure may occur when the COUNT value is desynchronized between the UE and the eNB due to data loss. Thus the E UTRAN may use a counter check procedure to minimize data loss thereby reducing the likelihood of ciphering failure. The E UTRAN may request the UE to verify the amount of data sent received on each DRB. In particular the UE may be requested to check if for each DRB the most significant bits of the COUNT correspond or match with the values indicated by the E UTRAN. If the most significant bits of the COUNT value correspond to the values indicated by the E UTRAN then the COUNT value is not desynchronized i.e. synchronized between the UE and the eNB due to data loss.

In the counter check procedure the eNB e.g. a small eNB or a macro eNB may communicate a Counter Check message to the UE. In one example the Counter Check message may be included in a radio resource connection RRC message communicated to the UE. The Counter Check message may include a configured COUNT most significant bit MSB value. After receiving the Counter Check message the UE may compare the configured COUNT MSB value with an actual COUNT MSB value. If the UE determines that the configured COUNT MSB value is the same as the actual COUNT MSB value then the UE may communicate a Counter Check Response message to the eNB e.g. a small eNB or a macro eNB . The Counter Check Response message may include the COUNT value for the requested DRB in the counter check procedure. In other words the UE may verify that the amount of data on each DRB corresponds to a configured amount of data for each DRB.

There may be two approaches for the counter check procedure in inter EUTRA eNB CA depending on which eNB triggers the counter check procedure. In the first approach the macro eNB may trigger the counter check procedure. The macro eNB may communicate the Counter Check message via the RRC message to the UE. The macro eNB may receive the Counter Check Response message from the UE. The Counter Check Response message may include the COUNT value of the DRB configured in the small cell. The macro eNB may communicate the COUNT value to the small eNB via an X2AP message. Alternatively the macro eNB may not request a counter check for the DRB configured in the small eNB.

In the second approach the small eNB may trigger the counter check procedure. The small eNB may desire to check the COUNT value for the DRB configured in the small cell. Thus the small eNB may communicate a request for the COUNT value to the macro eNB via an X2AP message. The X2AP message may include the DRB index to be reported and the actual COUNT MSB values. The macro eNB may receive the request for the COUNT value in the X2AP message from the small eNB. The macro eNB may communicate the Counter Check message via the RRC message to the UE. The macro eNB may receive the Counter Check Response message from the UE. The Counter Check Response message may include the COUNT value of the DRB configured in the small cell. The macro eNB may communicate the COUNT value to the small eNB via an X2AP message.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a first node operable to communicate security key information to a second node as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to determine a first security key associated with the first node the first security key being used to cipher information communicated at the first node as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to identify the second node at the first node to receive a second security key the second security key to be used to cipher information communicated at the second node as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to provide the second security key to the second node for inter Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access EUTRA evolved node B eNB carrier aggregation the second security key being different than the first security key as in block .

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to provide the second security key to the second node in a secondary cell addition message. In one example the first node can be configured to serve a primary cell and the second node can be configured to serve a secondary cell. In addition the second security key can be generated at the first node using the first security key a physical cell identity and a EUTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number EARFCN of the secondary cell. Alternatively the second security key can be generated using a Next Hop NH parameter.

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive security key update information at the first node from the second node wherein the security key update information includes security algorithm identifiers. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to provide the second security key to a user equipment UE wherein the UE communicates with the first node and the second node via inter EUTRA eNB carrier aggregation using the first security key and the second security key respectively.

In one example the UE includes an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port. In addition the first node and the second node are selected from a group consisting of a macro node a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a home eNB a micro eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a pico node a low power node a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

Another example provides a method for communicating security key information from a macro eNB as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of determining security key information associated with the macro evolved node B eNB the security key information being used to cipher information communicated at the first eNB as in block . The method can include identifying a small eNB at the macro eNB to generate the security key information associated with the macro eNB for ciphering information communicated at the second eNB as in block . The next operation of the method can include communicating the security key information from the macro eNB to the small eNB for inter Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access EUTRA evolved node B eNB carrier aggregation as in block .

In one example the macro eNB can be configured to serve a primary cell and the small eNB can be configured to serve a secondary cell. In addition the method can include communicating the security key information from the macro eNB to the small eNB via an X2 interface.

In one configuration the method can include communicating the security key information to the small eNB in a secondary cell addition request X2 Application Protocol X2AP message via the X2 interface. In addition the method can include communicating the security key information from the small eNB to a new small eNB associated with a UE for inter EUTRA eNB carrier aggregation. In one example the method can include receiving at the macro eNB from a mobility management entity MME a S1 application protocol S1AP message the S1AP including the security key information associated with the macro eNB and communicating the security key information via the S1AP message to the small eNB from the macro eNB the small eNB using the security key information to cipher information communicated at the small eNB.

In one configuration the method can include communicating the security key information to a user equipment UE from the macro eNB the UE using the security key information to communicate with the macro eNB and the small eNB via inter EUTRA eNB carrier aggregation using the first security key and the second security key respectively.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a first wireless node operable to communicate integrity and ciphering information as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to communicate a counter check procedure request to a user equipment UE to verify an amount of data communicated at the UE on each data radio bearer DRB for inter Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access EUTRA evolved node B eNB carrier aggregation as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to receive a counter check message from the UE including a count value for a first DRB associated with the first wireless node and a second DRB associated with a second wireless node the count value indicating the amount of data communicated per DRB as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to identify the second wireless node to receive the count value from the first wireless node as in block . In addition the computer circuitry can be configured to communicate the count value of the second DRB to the second wireless node using an X2 Application Protocol X2AP message as in block .

In one example the count value includes a hyper frame number HFN and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sequence number. In one configuration the computer circuitry can be configured to receive a request from the second wireless node for a count value associated with the second DRB communicate a radio resource connection RRC message to the UE requesting that the UE communicate the count value to the first wireless node receive the count check message from the UE the count check message including the count value and communicate the count value to the second wireless node using the X2AP message. In addition the first wireless node can be a macro node and the second wireless node can be a small node.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

