---

title: Application layer related group priority access using eMBMS and LTE priority access
abstract: The disclosure relates to dynamically controlling group priority access to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices. An aspect transmits, on a broadcast/multicast interface, a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices, wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. An aspect receives, on a broadcast/multicast interface, a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices, and bars channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591460&OS=09591460&RS=09591460
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09591460
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 787 entitled APPLICATION LAYER RELATED GROUP PRIORITY ACCESS USING EMBMS AND LTE PRIORITY ACCESS filed Aug. 31 2012 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to techniques for dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call.

A cellular communication system can support bi directional communication for multiple users by sharing the available system resources. Cellular systems are different from broadcast systems that can mainly or only support unidirectional transmission from broadcast stations to users. Cellular systems are widely deployed to provide various communication services and may be multiple access systems such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA systems Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA systems Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA systems etc.

A cellular system may support broadcast multicast and unicast services. A broadcast service is a service that may be received by all users e.g. news broadcast. A multicast service is a service that may be received by a group of users e.g. a subscription video service. A unicast service is a service intended for a specific user e.g. voice call. Group communications can be implemented using either unicast broadcast multicast or a combination of each. As the group becomes larger it is generally more efficient to use multicast services.

Certain push to talk PTT solutions offer group priority access thereby improving the chance of high priority group members to access the network by reducing the access channel collision. This is achieved by preventing other low priority users from performing channel access procedures when a select high priority group call is placed. However generic 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP or 3GPP2 networks cannot support such application layer group priority.

Long Term Evolution LTE networks support access barring by broadcasting the class es or categories of subscribers barred from network access on a cell by cell basis as indicated in a System Information Block SIB message. UEs are provisioned with one or more access classes and if at least one access class on the UE is permitted access based on the SIB message the UE is allowed to perform access attempts. The typical use of access class based barring is to categorize users into two ranges the range that is barred from access and the remaining set that is allowed access.

This access barring is not group specific however and affects all of the users in a particular access class of UE calls. Moreover LTE access barring is not dynamic i.e. operator intervention is required to change the access barring information in the SIB message. Further the access barring lasts even after the high priority user has completed access and bearer assignment.

The disclosure relates to dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call. A method for dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call includes transmitting on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

A method for determining priority access to a wireless network at a subscriber device for a group call includes receiving on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and barring channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

An apparatus for dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call includes logic configured to transmit on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

An apparatus for determining priority access to a wireless network at a subscriber device for a group call includes logic configured to receive on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and logic configured to bar channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

An apparatus for dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call includes means for transmitting on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

An apparatus for determining priority access to a wireless network at a subscriber device for a group call includes means for receiving on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and means for barring channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

A non transitory computer readable medium for dynamically controlling access priority to a wireless network for a plurality of subscriber devices for the members of a group call includes at least one instruction to transmit on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

A non transitory computer readable medium for determining priority access to a wireless network at a subscriber device for a group call includes at least one instruction to receive on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and at least one instruction to bar channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

Aspects of the disclosure are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific aspects of the disclosure. Alternate aspects may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. Further as used herein the term group communication push to talk or similar variations are meant to refer to a server arbitrated service between two or more devices.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting of aspects of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the aspects described herein the corresponding form of any such aspects may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

The techniques described herein may be used for various cellular communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA and SC FDMA systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA WCDMA and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for LTE and LTE terminology is used in much of the description below.

In the example shown in each Node B has three cells that cover different geographic areas. For simplicity shows the cells not overlapping one another. In a practical deployment adjacent cells typically overlap one another at the edges which may allow a UE to receive coverage from one or more cells at any location as the UE moves about the system.

UEs may be dispersed throughout the system and each UE may be stationary or mobile. A UE may also be referred to as a mobile station a terminal an access terminal a subscriber unit a station etc. A UE may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem a wireless communication device a handheld device a laptop computer a cordless phone etc. A UE may communicate with a Node B via transmissions on the downlink and uplink. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the Node B to the UE and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the UE to the Node B. In a solid line with double arrows indicates bi directional communication between a Node B and a UE. A dashed line with a single arrow indicates a UE receiving a downlink signal from a Node B e.g. for broadcast and or multicast services. The terms UE and user are used interchangeably herein.

Network controller may couple to multiple Node Bs to provide coordination and control for the Node Bs under its control and to route data for terminals served by these Node Bs. Cellular communication system may also include other network entities not shown in . Further as illustrated network controller may be operably coupled to an application server to provide group communication services to the various UEs through the system . It will be appreciated that there can be many other network and system entities that can be used to facilitate communications between the UEs and servers and information outside of the access network. Accordingly the various aspects disclosed herein are not limited to the specific arrangement or elements detailed in the various figures.

The system bandwidth may be partitioned into multiple K subcarriers with orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM . The available time frequency resources may be divided into resource blocks. Each resource block may include Q subcarriers in one slot where Q may be equal to 12 or some other value. The available resource blocks may be used to send data overhead information pilot etc.

The system may support evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services eMBMS for multiple UEs as well as unicast services for individual UEs. A service for eMBMS may be referred to as an eMBMS service or flow and may be a broadcast service flow or a multicast service flow.

In LTE data and overhead information are processed as logical channels at a Radio Link Control RLC layer. The logical channels are mapped to transport channels at a Medium Access Control MAC layer. The transport channels are mapped to physical channels at a physical layer PHY . Table 1 lists some logical channels denoted as L transport channels denoted as T and physical channels denoted as P used in LTE and provides a short description for each channel.

As shown in Table 1 different types of overhead information may be sent on different channels. Table 2 lists some types of overhead information and provides a short description for each type. Table 2 also gives the channel s on which each type of overhead information may be sent in accordance with one design.

The different types of overhead information may also be referred to by other names. The scheduling and control information may be dynamic whereas the system and configuration information may be semi static.

The system may support multiple operational modes for eMBMS which may include a multi cell mode and a single cell mode. The multi cell mode may have the following characteristics 

In general eMBMS services may be supported with the multi cell mode the single cell mode and or other modes. The multi cell mode may be used for eMBMS multicast broadcast single frequency network MBSFN transmission which may allow a UE to combine signals received from multiple cells in order to improve reception performance.

In the example shown in the M cells transmit three eMBMS services 1 2 and 3. All M cells transmit eMBMS service 1 in sub frames 1 and 3 eMBMS service 2 in sub frame 4 and eMBMS service 3 in sub frames 7 and 8. The M cells transmit the same content for each of the three eMBMS services. Each cell may transmit its own unicast service in sub frames 2 5 and 6. The M cells may transmit different contents for their unicast services.

In general an eMBMS service may be sent in any number of time frequency blocks. The number of sub frames may be dependent on the amount of data to send and possibly other factors. The M cells may transmit the three eMBMS services 1 2 and 3 in time frequency blocks that may not be aligned in time and frequency as shown in . Furthermore the M cells may transmit the same or different contents for the three eMBMS services. Each cell may transmit its own unicast service in remaining time frequency resources not used for the three eMBMS services. The M cells may transmit different contents for their unicast services.

As noted in the foregoing eMBMS services can be used to distribute multicast data to groups and could be useful in group communication systems e.g. Push to Talk PTT calls . Conventional applications on eMBMS have a separate service announcement discovery mechanism. Further communications on pre established eMBMS flows are always on even on the air interface. Power saving optimization must be applied to put the UE to sleep when a call communication is not in progress. This is typically achieved by using out of band service announcements on unicast or multicast user plane data. Alternatively application layer paging channel like mechanism may be used. Since the application layer paging mechanism has to remain active it consumes bandwidth on the multicast sub frame which could be idle in the absence of the paging mechanism. Additionally since the multicast sub frame will be active while using the application layer paging the remainder of the resource blocks within the sub frame cannot be used for unicast traffic. Thus the total 5 Mhz bandwidth will be consumed for the sub frame for instances when application layer paging is scheduled without any other data.

Referring to system information is provided by radio resource control RRC and is structured in master information blocks MIBs and system information blocks SIBs . An MIB is transmitted in fixed location time slots and includes parameters to aid the UE in locating a SIB Type 1 SIB1 scheduled on the DL SCH e.g. DL bandwidth and system frame number . The SIB1 contains information relevant to scheduling the other system information and information on access to a cell. The other SIBs are multiplexed in system information messages. A SIB Type 2 SIB2 message contains resource configuration information that is common to all UEs and information on access barring. The evolved universal terrestrial RAN E UTRAN controls user access by broadcasting access class barring parameters in a SIB2 message and the UE performs actions according to the access class in its universal subscriber identity module USIM .

All UEs that are members of access classes one to ten are randomly allocated mobile populations defined as access classes 0 to 9. The population number is stored in the SIM USIM. In addition UEs may be members of one or more of five special categories access classes 11 to 15 also held in the SIM USIM. The standard defines these access classes as follows 3GPP TS 22.011 Section 4.2 

A UE is allowed to perform access procedures when the UE is a member of at least one access class that corresponds to the permitted classes as signaled over the air interface.

The UEs generate a random number to pass the persistent test in order for the UE to gain access. To gain access a UE random number generator s outcome needs to be lower than the threshold set in the ac BarringFactor. By setting the ac BarringFactor to a lower value the access from regular users is restricted. The users with access class 11 to 15 can gain access without any restriction.

In accordance with various aspects disclosed herein some of the downlink channels related to eMBMS will be further discussed which include.

It will be appreciated that multiplexing of eMBMS and unicast flows are realized in the time domain only. The MCH is transmitted over MBSFN in specific sub frames on physical layer. MCH is a downlink only channel. A single transport block is used per sub frame. Different services MTCHs can be multiplexed in this transport block.

In LTE the control and data traffic for multicast is delivered over MCCH and MTCH respectively. The Medium Access Control Protocol Data Units MAC PDUs for the UEs indicate the mapping of the MTCH and the location of the particular MTCH within a sub frame. An MCH Scheduling Information MSI MAC control element is included in the first subframe allocated to the MCH within the MCH scheduling period to indicate the position of each MTCH and unused subframes on the MCH. For eMBMS user data which is carried by the MTCH logical channel MSI periodically provides at lower layers e.g. MAC layer information the information on decoding the MTCH. The MSI scheduling can be configured and according to this aspect is scheduled prior to the MTCH sub frame interval.

To achieve low latency and reduce control signaling one eMBMS flow e.g. of can be activated for each service area. Depending on the data rate multiple multicast flows can be multiplexed on a single slot. PTT UEs targets can ignore and sleep between scheduled sub frames and reduce power consumption when no unicast data is scheduled for the UE. The MBSFN sub frame can be shared by groups in the same MBSFN service area. MAC layer signaling can be leveraged to wake up the application layer e.g. PTT application for the target UEs.

Aspects of the disclosure can use two broadcast streams each a separate eMBMS flow over an LTE broadcast flow with its own application level broadcast stream and its own multicast IP address for each defined broadcast region e.g. a subset of sectors within the network . These regions may be separate or they may overlap.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the Node B s that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the Node B s can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the aspects of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of various aspects of the disclosure.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE UE A UE B Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In an example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include logic configured to transmit on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and wherein a subscriber device is barred from performing channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include logic configured to receive on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices wherein a communications group of subscriber devices comprises a group of subscribers that are associated with each other and or logic configured to bar channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the logic configured to process information can include logic configured to bar channel access procedures when at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. The processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. 

The various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access points used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

Certain PTT solutions offer group priority access thereby improving the chance of high priority group members to access the network by reducing the access channel collision. This is achieved by preventing other low priority users from performing channel access procedures when a select high priority group call is placed. However generic 3GPP or 3GPP2 networks cannot support such application layer group priority.

LTE networks support access barring in two categories depending on the class of the UE. However this access barring is not group specific and affects all of the users in a particular band of UE calls. Moreover LTE access barring is not dynamic i.e. operator intervention is required to change the access barring information in the System Information Block SIB message. Further the access barring lasts even after the high priority user has completed access and bearer assignment.

The various aspects of the disclosure provide group priority access over LTE and a dynamic mechanism to control access barring.

To enable group priority access the various aspects use an overlay eMBMS network and a logical eMBMS resource to periodically broadcast a priority channel bitmask that indicates the presence of a high priority group call. Each bit in the bitmask identifies a different group. The application server controls the data on the priority channel bitmask. When a priority group call is being started the application server sets the bit assigned to the group in the priority channel bitmask to 1. When the call setup is complete the application server resets the bit to 0.

All UEs are provisioned with information to access the priority channel bitmask and a mapping of the bitmask to the group identifiers. A UE determines that a high priority call is being setup if a bit in the priority channel bitmask has been set to 1. The UE determines whether or not it is part of the group based on the mapping of the bitmask to the group identifiers. If the UE is a part of the group it is allowed to perform access. If the UE is not part of the group its access is barred until the priority channel bitmask changes i.e. the high priority group call has been setup.

This provides a number of benefits. Among them group priority can be achieved on standard 3GPP and 3GPP2 networks based on application layer signaling. Additionally the access barring categories allow finer granularity of control. Moreover the dynamic access barring scheme allows faster implementation of access barring without operator intervention. Further the access barring lasts only until the high priority group members have completed their access and bearer assignments thus freeing up the network for other users.

Apart from the high priority indicator the priority access channel can also indicate certain priority levels. The priority level can be pre assigned to the groups at the application server allowed as an input from the user when the call is made or a combination of both.

At UEs are provisioned with the MTCH information for monitoring the priority channel bitmask the mapping of the bitmask to the group identifiers and the LTE access barring class. At because no priority groups are active the application server sets the priority channel bitmask for each group to 0 and broadcasts it as multicast packet data over the eMBMS network on the MTCH.

At UE 1 sends a high priority call request to the application server over a unicast channel. It will be noted that for the call originator talker both the application signaling and media are communicated via the unicast channel on the uplink or the reverse link. At the application server receives the call request and updates the priority channel bitmask by changing the bit representing the group to which originator talker belongs from 0 to 1. The application server then broadcasts the updated bitmask over the MTCH. The application server may broadcast the updated priority channel bitmask immediately or at the next scheduled periodic interval.

At UE 1 determines whether or not it is a member of the high priority call. Likewise at and UEs 2 to N and X determine whether or not they are members of the high priority call. In the example of UE 1 and UEs 2 to N are members of the high priority call while UE X is not.

At the application server sends a call announcement call setup request to the target UEs 2 to N but not UE X . The communication can be communicated to the target UEs 2 to N via multicast packets over a multicast flow as illustrated in the example of .

At UEs 2 to N are allowed access while at UE X is barred. At call setup for the high priority call is completed. At the application server updates the priority channel bitmask to allow access to all UEs since the priority members now have bearers assigned. The application server broadcasts the updated priority channel bitmask and at UE X is allowed access to the network.

At the UE receives the MTCH identifying information. At the UE receives the LTE access class. The UE may receive the group identifier mapping the group identifier bitmask and the MTCH identifying information from the application server such as application server . Alternatively a user may assign the LTE access class when initiating a group call. The UE may receive the information at in one message or several and at the same time or different times.

At the UE receives the priority channel bitmask from the application server. At the UE determines whether the priority channel bitmask indicates a priority group call restriction. The priority channel bitmask indicates a priority group call restriction if one of the bits in the bitmask is set to 1. If there is a priority group call restriction then at the UE determines whether it is a member of the priority group by comparing its group identifier bitmask to the priority channel bitmask. If the UE s group identifier bitmask matches the priority channel bitmask then at the UE permits channel access procedures.

If at the UE determines that the priority channel bitmask does not indicate a priority group call restriction then at the UE permits channel access procedures.

If at the UE determines that it is not a member of the priority group by comparing its group identifier bitmask to the priority channel bitmask then at the UE bars channel access procedures. The barring may be performed regardless of the UE s LTE access class.

The UE may determine a priority level associated with the priority channel bitmask and permit channel access procedures based on the priority level and the UE s LTE access class.

At the application server broadcasts a priority channel bitmask indicating a priority state of one or more communications groups of UEs. If no high priority group calls are being setup each bit in the bitmask is set to 0. The application server broadcasts the priority channel bitmask periodically.

At the application server receives a high priority group call request from a member of a high priority communications group of UEs such as UE . At the application server sets the bit in the priority channel bitmask that corresponds to the high priority group to 1. Because the high priority bitmask prevents UEs from attempting to initiate a group call while a high priority group call is being setup the application server does not need to check the high priority bitmask to see whether another high priority group call is currently being setup. The application server then broadcasts the updated priority channel bitmask. The application server may broadcast the updated priority channel bitmask immediately or at the next scheduled periodic interval.

At the application server sends a call announcement to the members of the high priority communications group. At the application server determines whether call setup is complete. If it is then at the application server resets the priority channel bitmask to 0 to allow non high priority UEs to access the network. If however at call setup is not complete the application server waits until it is.

At the application server transmits a list of group identifiers to each of the plurality of subscriber devices. The list of group identifiers may be a group identifier bitmask. A list of group identifiers identifies at least one communications group to which a subscriber device belongs.

At the application server transmits an LTE access class to each of the plurality of subscriber devices. The application server may assign the LTE access class or a user may assign the LTE access barring class when initiating a group call.

At the application server transmits on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices. A communications group of subscriber devices may be a group of subscribers that are associated with each other. The broadcast multicast interface may be an MBMS channel. The broadcast multicast interface may be an application programming interface API . A subscriber device will be barred from performing channel access procedures if at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. The priority group list may be a priority channel bitmask and the at least one group identifier of the priority group list may be a bit of the priority channel bitmask. The list of group identifiers may be a group identifier bitmask and the at least one group identifier of the list of group identifiers may be a bit of the group identifier bitmask.

At the application server updates the priority group list when a call among a high priority group of subscriber devices is being initiated. The application server may update the priority group list by setting a bit assigned to the high priority group in the priority group list to 1. At the application server transmits the priority group list in response to the updating.

At the application server updates the priority group list after setup procedures for a call among a high priority group of subscriber devices have been completed. The application server may update the priority group list by setting a bit assigned to the high priority group in the priority group list to 0. At the application server transmits the priority group list in response to the updating.

At the subscriber device receives a list of group identifiers from an application server such as application server . The list of group identifiers identifies at least one communications group to which the subscriber device belongs.

At the subscriber device receives an LTE access class. An application server such as application server may assign the LTE access class or a user may assign the LTE access class when initiating a group call. The barring may be performed regardless of the LTE access class.

At the subscriber device receives on a broadcast multicast interface a priority group list indicating a priority state of at least one communications group of subscriber devices. A communications group of subscriber devices may be a group of subscribers that are associated with each other. The broadcast multicast interface may be a multimedia broadcast multicast service MBMS channel. The list of group identifiers may be a group identifier bitmask and the at least one group identifier of the list of group identifiers may be a bit of the group identifier bitmask. The priority group list may be a priority channel bitmask and the at least one group identifier of the priority group list may be a bit of the priority channel bitmask.

At the subscriber device determines whether or not the priority group list indicates a priority group call restriction. At if the priority group list does not indicate a priority group call restriction the subscriber device permits channel access procedures.

At if the priority group list indicates a priority group call restriction the subscriber device determines a priority level associated with the priority group list. The subscriber device may permit channel access procedures based on the priority level and the subscriber device s LTE access class.

At the subscriber device determines whether or not at least one group identifier of the priority group list matches at least one group identifier of the list of group identifiers of the subscriber device. If at least one group identifier of the priority group list matches at least one group identifier of the list of group identifiers the subscriber device permits channel access procedures at .

At the subscriber device bars channel access procedures if at least one group identifier of the priority group list does not match at least one group identifier of a list of group identifiers of the subscriber device.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a computer readable media embodying a method for group communications over evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services eMBMS . Accordingly the disclosure is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in aspects of the disclosure.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

