---

title: Method and apparatus for sharing content via encoded data representations
abstract: An approach is provided for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The approach includes determining a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item; causing, at least in part, a generation of a graphical code representing, at least in part, the at least one content item, wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request; causing, at least in part, a presentation of the graphical code at the first device; and causing, at least in part, a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based, at least in part, on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075801&OS=09075801&RS=09075801
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09075801
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130118
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest is providing the capability for users to share various content items with other users by utilizing various devices methods and available services. In various situations one user may share a content item e.g. a picture with one or more other users via one or more local proximity based communication mechanisms however such sharing may be time consuming and difficult where the user may have to establish multiple communication channels sessions with the other users or that not all user devices are capable of proximity based communication. Alternatively users may share their content items via available service providers however this approach may require a user to upload the content for sharing to a service provider network access point e.g. a website a social network site provide the access point information to other users where the other users would have to login to the access point for accessing the content. Therefore service providers and device manufacturers face significant challenges in providing more efficient and user friendly mechanisms for sharing content.

Therefore there is a need for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item. The method also comprises causing at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. Additionally the method comprises causing at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine an input for specifying at least one object to associate with at least one content channel. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. Additionally the apparatus is caused to cause at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. Additionally the apparatus is caused to cause at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address at least these problems a system of introduces the capability of a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. More specifically users in different settings may wish to utilize a simple process to quickly share various content items for example pictures videos audio documents game applications and the like where the process may include few simple steps without necessarily having to perform all of the traditional steps. In one scenario a first user at an event e.g. a summer party may capture several pictures videos during the event where a second user would like to receive one or more of the pictures videos available on the first user s device first device . In one embodiment the first user may select a content item e.g. a picture a video etc. for sharing with the second user wherein an application on the first user device may generate a request for a service provider e.g. via a cloud service via the Internet etc. to transfer to and or present at the second user s device second device the selected content item. In one embodiment the service provider may generate an encoded data representation code a marker for example a graphical barcode a quick response QR code etc. which may be displayed at the first device e.g. on a display. In another embodiment the first device may partially or completely generate the marker e.g. a QR code wherein the marker is displayed at the first device. In one embodiment the second user may utilize the second device to scan e.g. via an onboard camera a marker displayed at the first device whereby the scanning may initiate a request from the second device and or from the first device to a service provider to transfer to and or present at the second device the content item. In various embodiments the first user and or the second user may interact with a content item on their respective devices whereby the interactions may transfer to the other device. In one embodiment a marker is unique to a content item. In one embodiment the marker is associated with a uniform resource locator URL. 

In various scenarios users may utilize capabilities of the system to easily share various content items available at one device with one or more other devices wherein the sharing process is easy and user friendly.

In one embodiment the system determines a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item. In one embodiment a service provider may receive a request from a first device where a user of the first device wishes to share a content item with another user via a second device. For example the first user selects a photo from a photo album on a first device and or at a remote storage and utilizes an application and or a user interface option on the first device to indicate that he wishes to share the photo with a second user e.g. via a second device. In one embodiment the request may be received at a sharing platform which may facilitate sharing of various content items among a plurality of users via one or more service providers and or content providers e.g. cloud services. In one embodiment a service provider may be predefined at a user device and or may be defined by the service platform facilitating the sharing.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. In one embodiment the graphical code includes a one dimensional graphical code a two dimensional graphical code or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a sharing platform and or a service provider may generate or cause a generation of a unique graphical code a marker e.g. a bar code a QR code a numerical pattern etc. representing the content item to be shared. In one embodiment one or more applications and or modules at a first user device may generate a complete or a partial marker and further cause a displaying on the first device. In various embodiments the graphical code representation the marker may be of various types of one dimensional and or two dimensional barcodes which may include encoded data associated with an object e.g. physical virtual digital etc. wherein the encoded data may be decoded by a decoding device. In one example a one dimensional barcode may be a series of vertical black lines with white spaces in between which represent encoded alphanumeric data that may be scanned and decoded by a device capable of doing so e.g. a barcode reader. Further the two dimensional barcodes also referred to as a matrix barcode may include a range of graphical code representations e.g. lines dots shapes patterns etc. in x axis and y axis directions that may include encoded alphanumeric data associated with an object wherein the data may indicate a website URL a map geo location a contact information text notes product identification and the like. For example the two dimensional barcodes may include various versions of graphical representations in color grey scale and black and white where the graphical pattern may be in a variety of geometrical forms and dimensions. In one embodiment a barcode may include an alphanumeric pattern which may be arranged in a matrix format. In one embodiment the graphical code includes a URL reference address associated with one or more content items.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. In one embodiment a service provider may generate the graphical code and cause for it to be presented displayed at the first device. In one embodiment a service provider may transmit a code e.g. an alphanumeric code to the first device wherein the first device may further utilize the code to generate and display a graphical code at the first device. In one embodiment the first device may partially or completely generate and display the graphical code at the first device.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device. In one embodiment a first device displays a graphical code and a second device scans and or captures an image of the graphical code for example via a barcode scanner and or via a camera device on the second device. In one embodiment one or more components of the system e.g. a service provider a service platform etc. may receive a scanned captured graphical code from the second device. In one embodiment the graphical code may be partially or completely decoded by the second device for example one or more applications on the second device may decode one or more portions of the graphical code and submit the decoded data to the one or more components of the system . In one instance the second device may decode a graphical code and utilize the decoded data to perform one or more actions for example contact a certain service provider e.g. Flickr Google Yahoo etc. or connect to a certain network resource e.g. a network server at a certain IP address use an internet browser to connect to a certain website and the like. In one embodiment the at least one content item is stored at the first device at a server or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider may transfer to and or present at the second device the content item which the first device intended to share with the second device. In one embodiment a service provider may request the content item from the first device to directly transfer to and or present at the second device. In one embodiment the service provider may request for and store the content item at the service provider before transferring to and or presentation at the second device.

In one embodiment the graphical code includes one or more information items associated with the first device with the server or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the first device and or a service provider may determine and include one or more information items associated with the first device with the user of the first device with a service provider associated with the first device and or the first user and the like. For example the graphical code may indicate a type of the first device who the user of the first device is a server where the content item may be stored at a server which may be transferring presenting the content item and the like.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more actions at the first device. In one embodiment an application at the first device and or a service provider may determine an action by a user of the first device associated with a content item. For example a first user at the first device may select one or more additional content items at the first device to be shared with the second device while a first content item is being transferred to and or presented at a second device. In one example the first user may browse through additional content items at the first device e.g. more photos in an album etc. which may also be shared with the second user via the second device.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of the at least one content item at the second device based at least in part on the one or more actions at the first device. For example the application at the first device and or the service provider may present the additional content items at the second device.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface application at the first device at the second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider in response to a request for sharing a content item from a first device to a second device may present a UI application at the first device and or at the second device. In one embodiment the service provider may cause one or more applications at the first device and or at the second device to present the UI application.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more inputs at the first device at the second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the service provider and or one or more applications at the first device and or at the second device may determine one or more inputs for example from a first user from a second user from one or more applications and the like which may select one or more content items for sharing for transfer for presentation and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item based at least in part on the one or more inputs. In one embodiment a service provider may effectuate the transfer and or presentation of one or more content items from a first device to a second device based at least in part on one or more inputs from the first user and or the second user. For example the first user may wish to discontinue sharing of content items or to add more content items to a current sharing session and the like. In one example the second user may wish to receive additional content items from the first device or request for a re transmission of a content item or request for a different version e.g. a different file size a different format etc. of a content item and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the content item to one or more other devices at one or more different geo locations. In one embodiment a service provider may receive a request from a first user and or from a second user for sharing a content item with one or more users devices that may be located at a different geo location than the first and or the second device. For example the content item may be shared with a third device e.g. a monitor a television set etc. which may be in communication with the system . In one embodiment the content item may be transferred and or presented to one or more devices at different locations at one or more different times.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the graphical code for determining contextual information associated with the at least one content item wherein the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item to the second device is based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment a service provider may decode the graphical code to determine contextual data associated with a content item to be shared wherein the contextual data may include metadata content type and the like. In one embodiment a first device may determine the contextual data. In one embodiment a second device may process the graphical code and determine the contextual data. In one embodiment a service provider a first device and or a second device may effectuate the transfer to and or presentation of the content item at the second device based at least in part on the contextual data. For example the contextual data may indicate that the content item may be for private use may not be shared may be shared with certain other users file size may be too large for transfer presentation via a given method and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item via a private content sharing channel a non private content sharing channel or a combination thereof based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment a first device a second device and or a service provider may determine to transfer and or present a content item via a private content sharing and or communication channel. In one embodiment the content item may be shared with a public a semi private secure or a combination thereof sharing and or communication channel. In one embodiment the contextual data may be utilized for determining the type of sharing and or communication channel to be utilized for the transfer and or presentation of the content item at the second device. For example content items including privacy information may be determined for sharing via a private and or secure channel. In one embodiment a first user initiating the sharing may identify request a certain channel for sharing a certain content item.

In various embodiments one or more users may utilize capabilities and benefits of the system to easily share various content items with one or more other users wherein the process is simple efficient user friendly and conducive to sharing content items by utilizing an encoded data e.g. graphical representation for initiating the sharing process via one or more service providers and or platforms.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser content sharing multimedia applications user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites a sharing platform see discussion in and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include content sharing modules also collectively referred to as the CS module . In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

In one embodiment the CS module and a camera module may be utilized to scan capture process submit analyze append etc. encoded data e.g. graphical representations for sharing various content items for example pictures videos audio recordings documents and the like. In various embodiments the CS module may include various components for capturing various representations of various types of content items for example video audio graphical codes e.g. barcodes scanner and the like. In various embodiments the graphical codes include various types of one dimensional and two dimensional codes. For example the barcodes may include encoded linear bars stacked bars in color code quick response QR code matrix format code in various orientations and the like wherein the graphical codes may be standardized. In one embodiment the CS module may include various predefined parameters and configuration information associated with a user a user device one or more service providers one or more content providers and the like. In one embodiment the CS module may present one or more options for a user to select one or more content items from a list of content items available to the user for sharing. For example a first user may utilize the CS module on a first device to select a content item by continuously selecting e.g. pressing on a UI feature to highlight select the content item. Further the CS module may cause a transmission of a request for sharing the one or more selected content items to one or more service providers and or content providers which may generate one or more encoded data representations e.g. a barcode a QR code etc. Furthermore the one or more encoded data representations may be transmitted back to the first device wherein the encoded data may contain one or more information items associated with one or more service providers one or more content providers and the like whereby the one or more content items may be shared. In one embodiment the CS module at the first device may generate the one or more encoded data representations which may contain one or more information items associated with the one or more content items the one or more service providers the one or more content providers and or the sharing platform . In one embodiment a second user may utilize a second device to scan and or capture an image of an encoded data representation for causing a request for one or more content items to be transferred to and or presented at the second device. For example a first device may display a barcode that is associated with a content item and a second device may scan the barcode for requesting to receive the content item via one or more service providers.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more databases also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like. In one embodiment a service provider may receive and process a request input from a user for establishing a content channel wherein one or more users may share content items among the users. In one embodiment the service provider may utilize various algorithms software applications modules hardware firmware and the like for processing recognizing detecting comparing and the like content items e.g. media items that may be associated with a content channel and use a processed content item for authenticating one or more users wishing to access the content channel if the users submit substantially same content item as a key for accessing the content channel.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers and the content providers may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs and the service providers may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The location module can determine a user s location for example via location of a UE . The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory module and are available to the context processing module the DC module the service providers and or to other entities of the system e.g. via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In various embodiments the sensors module can process sensor data from various sensors e.g. GPS accelerometer gyroscope thermometer etc. to determine environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. location information and various other information from a range sensors that may be available on one or more devices. For example the sensors module may detect conditions including humidity temperature geo location biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory module and sent to the context processing module and or to other entities of the system . In certain embodiments information collected from the DC collection module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In one embodiment the multimedia module may be utilized to capture various media items for example graphical encoded data representations images video audio and the like wherein the captured media may be submitted to one or more modules and applications of the UE a service provider and or a content provider to further processing storage sharing and the like. For example a captured image of a graphical encoded data representations may be submitted to a service provider and or the context processing module for analysis and or decoding. In one embodiment the multimedia module may also be utilized to scan a graphical encoded data representation which may be associated with one or more content items for sharing via one or more local and or remote service providers.

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the service providers content providers and or to other entities of the system .

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc. Input can be via one or more methods such as voice input textual input typed input typed touch screen input other touch enabled input etc.

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the CS module DC module and or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the service providers and or to other entities of the system . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user an instance of data a value a content item an object a subject and the like. In certain embodiments the context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services POIs at various geo locations etc.

In various embodiments the runtime module may cause one or more modules components of a UE to associate one or more available data items with one or more content items available from the one or more modules components of the UE . For example date time location and user information associated with a device at a particular time may be associated e.g. as metadata with an image that is captured by the UE at that particular time.

In one embodiment the control logic and the channel module may receive a request input from a user for sharing one or more content items among users wherein the channel module may determine one or more parameters associated with the user preferences user history content type for sharing a service provider and the like. Further the channel module may utilize a predefined dedicated content channel or may determine a suitable channel based at least in part on the determined parameters and information.

In one embodiment the control logic and the code module may cause a generation and or a decoding of one or more encoded data representations associated with one or more content items. In one embodiment the code module may generate an encoded data representation for one or more content items available for sharing at a device. For example the code module may process a request from a first device for sharing one or more content items available for sharing and further generate one or more encoded data representations for the one or more content items. In one embodiment the one or more encoded data representations are transmitted to the first device e.g. a device wishing to share one or more content items. In one embodiment the code module may decode an encoded data representation e.g. received from second device which may be associated with one or more content items available at a device e.g. a first device. For example the code module may receive an encoded data representation from a second device which may be requesting to receive and or view one or more content items associated with the encoded data representation. In one embodiment the one or content items to be shared may be available at a first device at a service provider at a local storage at a remote storage and the like.

In one embodiment the control logic and authentication module may cause an authentication of users devices for access to the content. For example the control logic and the authentication module may process an encoded data representation submitted by a user which is to be a key for accessing one or more content items. In one embodiment the authentication module may utilize one or more algorithms software applications modules and the like for decoding an encoded data representation associated with one or more content items to be shared among a plurality of devices. For example the encoded data representation may be a QR code which may be associated with a content item available at a first device wherein the content item is to be transferred and or presented at a second device.

Referring to the process begins at step where the sharing platform and or the CS module determine a first request from a first device for sharing at least one content item. In one embodiment a service provider may receive a request from a first device where a user of the first device wishes to share a content item with another user via a second device. For example the first user selects a photo from a photo album on a first device and or at a remote storage and utilizes an application and or a user interface option on the first device to indicate that he wishes to share the photo with a second user e.g. via a second device. In one embodiment the request may be received at a sharing platform which may facilitate sharing of various content items among a plurality of users via one or more service providers and or content providers e.g. cloud services. In one embodiment a service provider may be predefined at a user device and or may be defined by the service platform facilitating the sharing.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part a generation of a graphical code representing at least in part the at least one content item wherein the graphical code is unique to the first request. In one embodiment the graphical code includes a one dimensional graphical code a two dimensional graphical code or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a sharing platform and or a service provider may generate or cause a generation of a unique graphical code a marker e.g. a bar code a QR code a numerical pattern etc. representing the content item to be shared. In one embodiment one or more applications and or modules at a first user device may generate a complete or a partial marker and further cause a displaying on the first device. In various embodiments the graphical code representation the marker may be of various types of one dimensional and or two dimensional barcodes which may include encoded data associated with an object e.g. physical virtual digital etc. wherein the encoded data may be decoded by a decoding device. In one example a one dimensional barcode may be a series of vertical black lines with white spaces in between which represent encoded alphanumeric data that may be scanned and decoded by a device capable of doing so e.g. a barcode reader. Further the two dimensional barcodes also referred to as a matrix barcode may include a range of graphical code representations e.g. lines dots shapes patterns etc. in x axis and y axis directions that may include encoded alphanumeric data associated with an object wherein the data may indicate a website URL a map geo location a contact information text notes product identification and the like. For example the two dimensional barcodes may include various versions of graphical representations in color grey scale and black and white where the graphical pattern may be in a variety of geometrical forms and dimensions. In one embodiment a barcode may include an alphanumeric pattern which may be arranged in a matrix format. In one embodiment the graphical code includes a URL reference address associated with one or more content items.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module cause at least in part a presentation of the graphical code at the first device. In one embodiment a service provider may generate the graphical code and cause for it to be presented displayed at the first device. In one embodiment a service provider may transmit a code e.g. an alphanumeric code to the first device wherein the first device may further utilize the code to generate and display a graphical code at the first device. In one embodiment the first device may partially or completely generate and display the graphical code at the first device.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part a transfer of the at least one content item from the first device to a second device based at least in part on a scanning of the graphical code by the second device. In one embodiment a first device displays a graphical code and a second device scans and or captures an image of the graphical code for example via a barcode scanner and or via a camera device on the second device. In one embodiment one or more components of the system e.g. a service provider a service platform etc. may receive a scanned captured graphical code from the second device. In one embodiment the graphical code may be partially or completely decoded by the second device for example one or more applications on the second device may decode one or more portions of the graphical code and submit the decoded data to the one or more components of the system . In one instance the second device may decode a graphical code and utilize the decoded data to perform one or more actions for example contact a certain service provider e.g. Flickr Google Yahoo etc. or connect to a certain network resource e.g. a network server at a certain IP address use an internet browser to connect to a certain website and the like. In one embodiment the at least one content item is stored at the first device at a server or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider may transfer to and or present at the second device the content item which the first device intended to share with the second device. In one embodiment a service provider may request the content item from the first device to directly transfer to and or present at the second device. In one embodiment the service provider may request for and store the content item at the service provider before transferring to and or presentation at the second device.

In one embodiment the graphical code includes one or more information items associated with the first device with the server or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the first device and or a service provider may determine and include one or more information items associated with the first device with the user of the first device with a service provider associated with the first device and or the first user and the like. For example the graphical code may indicate a type of the first device who the user of the first device is a server where the content item may be stored at a server which may be transferring presenting the content item and the like.

Referring to the process begins at step where the sharing platform and or the CS module determine one or more actions at the first device. In one embodiment an application at the first device and or a service provider may determine an action by a user of the first device associated with a content item. For example a first user at the first device may select one or more additional content items at the first device to be shared with the second device while a first content item is being transferred to and or presented at a second device. In one example the first user may browse through additional content items at the first device e.g. more photos in an album etc. which may also be shared with the second user via the second device.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part a presentation of the at least one content item at the second device based at least in part on the one or more actions at the first device. For example the application at the first device and or the service provider may present the additional content items at the second device.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface application at the first device at the second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider in response to a request for sharing a content item from a first device to a second device may present a UI application at the first device and or at the second device. In one embodiment the service provider may cause one or more applications at the first device and or at the second device to present the UI application.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module determines one or more inputs at the first device at the second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the service provider and or one or more applications at the first device and or at the second device may determine one or more inputs for example from a first user from a second user from one or more applications and the like which may select one or more content items for sharing for transfer for presentation and the like.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item based at least in part on the one or more inputs. In one embodiment a service provider may effectuate the transfer and or presentation of one or more content items from a first device to a second device based at least in part on one or more inputs from the first user and or the second user. For example the first user may wish to discontinue sharing of content items or to add more content items to a current sharing session and the like. In one example the second user may wish to receive additional content items from the first device or request for a re transmission of a content item or request for a different version e.g. a different file size a different format etc. of a content item and the like.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the content item to one or more other devices at one or more different geo locations. In one embodiment a service provider may receive a request from a first user and or from a second user for sharing a content item with one or more users devices that may be located at a different geo location than the first and or the second device. For example the content item may be shared with a third device e.g. a monitor a television set etc. which may be in communication with the system . In one embodiment the content item may be transferred and or presented to one or more devices at different locations at one or more different times.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module processes and or facilitates a processing of the graphical code for determining contextual information associated with the at least one content item wherein the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item to the second device is based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment a service provider may decode the graphical code to determine contextual data associated with a content item to be shared wherein the contextual data may include metadata content type and the like. In one embodiment a first device may determine the contextual data. In one embodiment a second device may process the graphical code and determine the contextual data. In one embodiment a service provider a first device and or a second device may effectuate the transfer to and or presentation of the content item at the second device based at least in part on the contextual data. For example the contextual data may indicate that the content item may be for private use may not be shared may be shared with certain other users file size may be too large for transfer presentation via a given method and the like.

In step the sharing platform and or the CS module causes at least in part the transfer the presentation or a combination thereof of the at least one content item via a private content sharing channel a non private content sharing channel or a combination thereof based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment a first device a second device and or a service provider may determine to transfer and or present a content item via a private content sharing and or communication channel. In one embodiment the content item may be shared with a public a semi private secure or a combination thereof sharing and or communication channel. In one embodiment the contextual data may be utilized for determining the type of sharing and or communication channel to be utilized for the transfer and or presentation of the content item at the second device. For example content items including privacy information may be determined for sharing via a private and or secure channel. In one embodiment a first user initiating the sharing may identify request a certain channel for sharing a certain content item.

Referring to now illustrated are UI on the UE and UI on a UE . In one embodiment the sharing platform and or a service provider may generate and present at the UE an encoded data representation e.g. a QR code which may include one or more information items associated with the content item the UE the first user the sharing platform a service provider a content provider and or one or more network elements of the system . In one embodiment one or more applications at UE the CS module and the like may generate the encoded data representation which may include one or more predefined parameters associated with one or more network elements of the system for effectuating sharing of the content item . In one embodiment the encoded data representation may include one or more encoded data representations of the list wherein the encoded data representation may be one dimensional or two dimensional graphical representations. For example the list illustrates a barcode a QR code a matrix code a stacked code a color coded geometrical code and the like which are only examples of various graphical representations of encoded data. In various embodiments an encoded data representation may include a unique URL address which may point to a specific network location whereat one or more users may access one or more content items. In one embodiment a second user may utilize an application e.g. CS module via the UI at the UE to scan and or capture the encoded data representation at the UE . In one embodiment the UE causes a transmission of the scan and or the capture of the encoded data representation to the sharing platform a service provider and or a content provider . In one embodiment the sharing platform a service provider and or a content provider may cause a transfer of and or a presentation of the content item at the UE . In one embodiment the applications and or the CS module may decode the encoded data representation for determining an access point in the system whereat the content item may be available for access e.g. view download etc. 

Referring to now the sharing platform a service provider and or a content provider may cause a transfer and or a presentation of the content item at the UE . In one embodiment the UE may decode one or more information items in the encoded data representation for accessing the content item . For example the UE may determine the URL address and utilize the applications for accessing the URL address. In one embodiment the content item may be stored at the UE and may only be retrieved and transferred to the UE upon decoding the encoded data representation . In one embodiment the content item may be stored at a service provider and or a content provider for future availability to one or more users devices.

The processes described herein for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

