---

title: De-populating cloud data store
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for de-populating a cloud data store. In one method, an identification of a set of cloud-populated data to be transported from a set of host storage clouds to at least one target data store is received. The method identifies a data transport pathway from the set of host storage clouds to the at least one target data store, the data transport pathway including a dedicated reverse staging connection between the set of host storage clouds and the at least one target data store. The method initiates the transport of the set of cloud-populated data to the at least one target data store in view of a set of de-population commands.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063904&OS=09063904&RS=09063904
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09063904
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 036 977 filed Feb. 28 2011 the entire of content of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to systems and methods for de populating a cloud data store and more particularly to platforms and techniques for extracting a set of cloud populated data from host cloud data stores and managing the transport and delivery of that data via a cloud data distribution service that can configure high bandwidth connections configure the data format or security and or other attributes of the data transport channel and or recipient storage target.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In terms of data deployment and migration to the cloud in cases an administrator or other user may wish to consider transporting a set of data from a premise based network into cloud hosted storage for instance to leverage the cost consolidation management tools and or other features or advantages of the cloud. In an unmodified or unaided cloud storage platform relatively large scale storage resources may be available for users wishing to upload their data assets into the cloud but without any special or enhanced set of connections into the host storage clouds. In the case of relatively large scale premise data stores such as those maintained merely for instance by hospitals government agencies financial institutions or other entities the amount of data that needs to be transported may be in the range of terabytes petabytes or more. In the case of those comparatively large scale data installations an attempt to migrate the data over public Internet connections such as packet switched TCP IP transfer control protocol Internet protocol or FTP file transfer protocol connections the delivery of the data payload could require days or weeks of time.

For many organizations that type of transfer delay may be impractical or impossible. In addition the relatively narrow bandwidth connections available over the public Internet may not be secure and for sensitive data or applications the use of such connections may also not be a valid or practical option. Moreover narrow bandwidth connections into a host storage cloud may not allow for data management services such as error correction in flight encryption or other security or management options.

In further cases data which has been installed or hosted in one or more host storage clouds may eventually be desired to be removed or de populated from those clouds. This can be the case for instance when some or all of the data hosted in the cloud has become obsolete or unusable for instance due to aging of the data itself and or the encoding of that data in file formats which are no longer supported by applications used in a user s cloud or other network.

It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for de populating a cloud data store in which cloud populated data can be identified located and efficiently transported from the cloud to step down data stores such as on premise databases or servers using a centralized cloud data distribution service capable of configuring connections to de populate the cloud hosted data while manage the formatting transfer security and or other transport details using a set of selectable de population commands and or other instructions.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In aspects the cloud management system and or other logic or service that manages configures and tracks cloud activity can be configured to interact with other sites platforms engines servers and or associated services that are configured to organize and manage the transport and delivery of existing data stores from on premise databases or other sources and stage that data to data storage resources at near co hosted or otherwise in geographic proximity to a set of host storage clouds in which that data payload will be placed and stored. In aspects the cloud distribution data service which may be referred to as CDD CDD service data distribution service or other references herein can be located at the network edge to either or both of the premise data sources and or the set of host storage clouds. In aspects this staging or staggering of potentially large scale or very large scale data stores can permit the connection between the data source s intermediate or staged data stores and or the host cloud data stores using dedicated and or high bandwidth lines channels or connections to permit the efficient and timely porting of that data to a host storage cloud or clouds of the user s choice. In aspects the data payload or portions thereof can be located extracted and transmitted as an image or copy of the subject data with the original cloud hosted being preserved in the set of host storage clouds. In aspects the data payload and or portions thereof can be located extracted and transmitted without leaving the original data stored in the set of host storage clouds such as by deleting that data upon reading out or using other techniques.

In those regards illustrates a network implementation in which in various cases an administrator owner operator and or other user of a premise network may wish to consider identifying collecting and migrating or transporting their databases data files and or other data assets to a set of host storage clouds . In aspects and merely illustratively the premise network can contain or include on premise bare metal and or other virtual or physical assets including a set of premise servers a set of premise clients one or more local area networks LANs such as an Ethernet or Wifi network a virtual private network VPN and or other networks or connection topologies. The premise network can include or interface to one or more networks such as the public Internet and or other public or private networks.

The premise network can likewise include a set of premise data stores such as one or more databases data stores servers redundant arrays of inexpensive disks RAID installations optical or solid state storage or devices and or other data storage repositories resources or assets. In aspects the set of premise data stores can store different types of data including for example technical medical financial scientific and or other data. The data hosted or stored in the set of premise data stores can comprise significantly or substantially large scale data for example data or files comprising terabytes or other amounts of data. For instance the administrator owner operator and or other user of a corporation hospital educational institution government body and or other entity may collect and maintain a set of data in a set of premise data stores such as local databases data centers database files and or engines repositories and or other data assets services and or other storage sites of resources. In cases the set of premise data stores can host and store a significant or substantial amount of data such as terabytes petabytes exabytes yottabytes and or other amounts of data. In aspects the administrator owner operator and or other user responsible for hosting and or maintaining that data in the set of premise data stores may for various reasons wish to migrate some or all of that constituent data to one or more local cloud data stores in the set of host storage clouds such as to leverage cost maintenance capacity security and or other advantages or factors available in the set of host storage clouds .

In aspects it can be the case that if the owner administrator and or other user of the user premise network attempted to transport a significant amount of the data stored in the set of premise data stores via one or more networks such as the Internet in an unmanaged fashion the comparatively low bandwidth or lack of reliability in the packet switched public Internet could render the data transfer difficult impractical unfeasible or impossible due to the limitations of those types of channels or connections. The upload of terabytes or other amounts of data over public Internet or similar connections could require days of time or more and data integrity or reliability issues could also affect the effectiveness of data migration attempted in that manner.

According to aspects systems and methods for staged data migration between data sources and cloud based storage networks according to the present teachings can be deployed to assist in reducing avoiding or eliminating those and other types of performance degradations and other factors having a potential impact on the transport of data from on premise and or other sources to the set of host storage clouds and or other cloud based storage assets services or resources. In implementations of the present teachings a data distribution service can accordingly be established or deployed as an independent service or access point available publicly or privately to potential subscribers to the set of host storage clouds to condition prepare receive and stage incoming data payloads or data sets for delivery to an eventual cloud storage host using enhanced dedicated and or otherwise managed connections to reduce data transport time to improve transfer reliability and or security and or to provide other factors or benefits. In aspects the data distribution service can establish or maintain physical points of presence PoPs and or other connections to one or more networks such as the Internet and or other public or private networks through which users or potential users can connect to the data distribution service and its associated resources logic and services. According to aspects the data distribution service can host or execute a staging engine that can contain software application operating system and or other logic or resources to manage the transport and delivery of a data payload from the set of premise data stores and or other sources to a set of host storage clouds . In aspects the data distribution service can be configured to communicate directly or indirectly with the cloud management system of each of the set of host storage clouds for instance via the Internet and or other public or private networks or connections. In aspects the data distribution service can also maintain a set of staged data stores such as databases data stores servers and or other data assets or resources with which to store and stage the data payload for migration into one or more local cloud data stores hosted in the set of host storage clouds . In aspects each cloud in the set of host storage clouds can host one or multiple local cloud data stores .

According to implementations of the present teachings in certain regards the data distribution service can operate to manage organize and or enhance or optimize the transfer of the data payload from the set of premise data stores and or other sources by staggering staging pre staging conditioning and or otherwise manipulating and administering the transfer of the data payload to the set of staged data stores via sets of selectable and or configurable channels or connections. In aspects those channels or connections can be or include a set of dedicated staging connections that connect the user premise network to the data distribution service and the set of staged data stores . In aspects the set of dedicated staging connections can be or include any one or more of asynchronous transfer mode ATM networks or connections wide area networks WANs or connections metropolitan area networks MANs or connections fiber optical connections such as synchronous optical networking SONET or synchronous digital hierarchy SDH connections wireless connections cable or wireline connections virtual private networks VPNs or connections and or other channels or connections. In aspects the connections in the set of dedicated staging connections can be or include channels or connections can having a relatively high capacity bandwidth or service level such as for instance tens of megabytes per second hundreds of megabytes per second gigabytes per second tens of gigabytes per second hundreds of gigabytes per second terabytes per second and or other data transfer rates or bandwidth ratings or capacities. In aspects any one or more of the connections or channels in the set of dedicated staging connections can comprise connections which are leased by a user on a temporary demand triggered long term and or other basis. And one or more of the connections or channels in the set of dedicated staging connections can be or include permanent or dedicated channels line and or connections dynamically routed or configured channels or connections and or other channels or connections.

In aspects the administrator owner operator and or other user of the user premise network can specify a set of conditions criteria and or other parameters to govern the transport of the data payload during delivery to the data distribution service and or to the eventual set of host storage clouds which information can be stored or encoded in a set of transport parameters which can be stored in the staging engine and or other locations or stores. The set of transport parameters can for instance specify a total amount of data to be include in the data payload for delivery to the data distribution service as well as a schedule over which or time by which the administrator owner operator and or other user wishes to conduct and complete the migration of the data payload to the data distribution service . The set of transport parameters can likewise include cost specifications for instance in cases where the cost of leasing or using any of the set of dedicated staging connections is selectable or variable. The set of transport parameters can also include further configuration parameters such as any security or redundancy protocols or standards that the administrator owner operator and or other user wishes to apply to the transport of the data payload to the data distribution service user access controls to the data payload before or after transport has been initiated or completed. Other parameters configuration settings commands scripts and or other criteria variables or conditions can be specified or indicated in the set of transport parameters .

As a merely illustrative example the administrator owner operator and or other user can enter or encode the set of transport parameters to indicate that a data transport event is desired to migrate the data payload from the user premise network under criteria that 1 000 terabytes of data is to be transported by an ending time of 12 00 midnight on a specified data at an average cost of not more than 0.25 per megabyte and with the data payload encrypted using the Data Encryption Standard DES and or other encryption or security protocol and with the data payload to be stored in the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service in XML extensible markup language or other format. The set of transport parameters can be selected entered and or otherwise transmitted from the user premise network or other site to the data distribution service for instance via a selector tool Web browser and or other application or interface. The set of transport parameters can in aspects in whole or part specify the set of dedicated staging connections to be used for delivery of the data payload and or associated information to the data distribution service for instance via manual selection or input received from the administrator owner operator and or other user.

In aspects the data payload and or associated information can be migrated or transported partly or entirely via the set of dedicated staging connections . For instance in cases the administrator owner operator and or other user may transmit some of the data payload and or associated information via the one or more networks in addition to the set of dedicated staging connections . For example configuration commands the set of transport parameters or portions of or updates to the set of transport parameters can be transmitted via the one or more networks for instance via the public Internet since in aspects comparatively higher bandwidth connections may not be necessary to transmit relatively small amounts of commands and or data or elements of the data. In cases the one or more networks can in addition or instead transport at least a portion of the data payload for instance to transmit supplemental data or attributes whose delivery target time is not immediate or a high priority. Other combinations of the one or more networks the set of dedicated staging connections other networks or connections and or combinations thereof can be used.

In aspects after transport of the data payload to the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service has been completed the data distribution service can finalize the installation storage and or hosting of the data payload and or associated information in the one or more local cloud data stores before initiating activities related to further transport of the data payload to the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more of the set of local host storage clouds . The data distribution service can store host and maintain the data payload in the set of staged data stores for temporary short term and or longer or other periods depending on the set of transfer parameters and or other factors. For instance the staging engine of the data distribution service can determine that the administrator owner operator and or other user has specified or requested that the transfer of the data payload into the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more of the set of local host storage clouds be initiated by 9 00 p.m. on a certain date. To satisfy that scheduling criterion the staging engine can identify the size and or type of data in the data payload analyze or estimate the bandwidth available in the set of dedicated staging connections and set a target delivery completion time of 11 00 p.m. on the specified delivery date taking into account the interval of time that will be necessary to transport the data payload over the available bandwidth of the selected channels in the set of dedicated staging connections to complete transfer of the data payload by 11 00 p.m. on that scheduled date. If the transport process proceeds to complete by the calculated completion time of 11 00 p.m. on that date the data of the data payload and or any associated information can accordingly reside in the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service for one hour before the staging engine initiates the further or next stage migration or transport of the data payload to the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more of the set of local host storage clouds . The set of staged data stores of the data distribution service can host the data payload and or associated information for lesser or greater amounts of times for instance for periods of minutes hours days weeks months and or other periods or intervals depending on the set of transfer parameters and or other factors. For instance in an illustrative implementation involving payload data including enterprise resource planning ERP data related to a chemical or automotive factory the manufacturing data materials deliveries and costs factory repair or maintenance events or schedules and or other data may be tracked stored and updated on a monthly cycle. In those or other implementations the administrator owner operator and or other user may specify that the data payload encapsulating that ERP and or other data can or should be migrated over a period of 30 days and or before the next regular update cycle in which case the data distribution service may determine that the data payload can be extracted to the data distribution service over a period of 30 days for instance so as to use a comparatively lower amount of bandwidth in the set of dedicated staging connections and thereby incur less connection leasing costs. In cases where the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service stores hosts and or maintains the data payload over significant intervals of time such as days or weeks of time and or other intervals or periods the data distribution service can also apply or enforce data conditioning or maintenance standards or procedures on the data payload or other information. For example in cases where the data payload includes medical information the data distribution service can apply user access controls such as username password authentication and or data encryption for instance to satisfy the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPPA the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act SOX or other regulatory or compliance stipulations or requirements. Other compliance management and or security protocols can be applied to the data payload and or other information stored in the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service regardless of the duration of time that information is staged in the data distribution service . For instance during the period that the data payload resides or is hosted in the data distribution service the data distribution service can also communicate with the user premise network to interrogate that source network for any incremental or other updates to the data payload and incorporate those updates into the data payload stored in the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service . Other data conditioning or processing can be performed on the data payload while hosted or stored in the set of staged data stores of the data distribution service .

In aspects the data distribution service can be installed configured and or located in geographic proximity to the set of host storage clouds the one or more local cloud data stores and or other network elements or sites. As used or described in this application in aspects locations within geographic proximity to each other can be or include locations or sites located within the same city or metropolitan area and or within the same general region such as within a state in the U.S. and or a multi state region generally recognized as constituting a cohesive geographic region such as merely for example the New York New Jersey Connecticut tri state area and or others. In aspects locations within geographic proximity to each other can also or instead be or include areas or regions within which direct continuous connectable configurable leasable primary and or otherwise uninterrupted or unmediated physical or wireless connections are available to establish communications links between two or more network points sites and or entities within a geographic region section and or area. In aspects network sites points including physical points of presence PoPs and or other elements can be considered to be within geographic proximity to each other is those sites or points can be connected directly or essentially directly via comparatively high bandwidth channels or connections and or without resorting to connections via the public Internet. For example network sites points including physical points of presence PoPs and or other elements can be considered to be within geographic proximity to each other if those sites points and or other elements can be connected directly or essentially directly via one or more wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs optical connections such as synchronous optical network SONET connections and or other comparatively high bandwidth channels or connections as will be understood by persons skilled in the art. While in aspects network sites points including physical points of presence PoPs and or other elements can be considered as being within geographic proximity based on various physical functional and or logical factors in aspects and purely illustratively network sites points including physical points of presence PoPs and or other elements that can be classified or considered as being within geographic proximity can be located within distances of miles tens of miles hundreds of miles and or lesser or greater distance of each other. In aspects in noted instances and others geographic proximity can also encompass or include network proximity between the premise network and the data distribution service and or between the data distribution service and set of host storage clouds in the sense of being within range or being connectable via comparatively high bandwidth connections or channels. Other factors parameters criteria and or considerations can be used to determine geographic proximity between network sites points including physical points of presence PoPs and or other elements as described herein.

Upon meeting reaching and or otherwise satisfying the scheduled time criteria and or conditions to initiate the further transfer of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds the data distribution service and or other logic or service can begin the processing to migrate that data or information to the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more clouds in the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the delivery of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds can be initiated at a scheduled time such as a time specified in the set of transport parameters and or other commands or configuration data. In aspects the delivery of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds can be initiated on an event triggered basis such as one hour or one day after completion of the transport of the data payload to the data distribution service . In aspects the delivery of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds can also or instead be initiated by manual selection or command for instance by a selection or command inputted by the administrator owner operator and or other user. Other conditions commands schedules events and or criteria can be used to identify a time at which to begin pause continue and or otherwise deliver the data payload and or associated information from the data distribution service to the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more clouds in the set of host storage clouds .

In aspects the data payload and or other information can be transported or transmitted through a data transport pathway from the data distribution service to the set of host storage clouds via a set of dedicated transport connections . In aspects the set of dedicated transport connections can connect the set of staged data stores directly or indirectly to the one or more local cloud data stores to migrate and install the data payload and or associated information in the one or more local cloud data stores . In aspects the set of dedicated transport connections can be or include connections or channels of the same general type or types as the set of dedicated staging connections and or can include additional separate and or different channels or connections. In aspects the set of staged data stores can be located within geographic proximity or near geographic proximity in the senses noted herein to one or more of the clouds in the set of host storage clouds and or the constituent elements of those clouds including the cloud management system s and or one or more local cloud data stores . In aspects the staging engine and or other logic or service can initiate and manage the transfer of the data payload and or image thereof stored or hosted in the set of staged data stores to the one or more local cloud data stores via the set of dedicated transport connections on a scheduled event triggered manually specified and or other basis. The migration or transport of the data payload and or associated data can for instance be programmed to begin at a specified time on a specified date and or to begin upon the detection of specified events such as validation of the data payload and or associated data using error correction decryption and or other processing or protocols. In aspects the migration or transport of the data payload and or associated data can be initiated by receipt of a command input and or other signal from the administrator owner operator and or other user for instance received via a tool interface or browser operated by the admin in the user premise network and or other location or site.

After the transfer of the data payload and or other associated data has been initiated the staging engine and or other logic or service can monitor the transport of that data while in flight for instance to perform data validation of migrated data using for instance check sum or other processing encryption decryption of the data while traversing the set of dedicated transport connections and or to perform other supervisory or monitoring tasks to ensure the integrity of the data being moved and the migration process. After the successful completion of all data transport validation security and or other processing required for migration of the data payload and or related information the staging engine can detect confirm and or declare the completion of the transfer of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the staging engine one or more cloud management system s and or other logic can store and or encode the data payload and or associated information in the one or more local cloud data stores in various formats or configurations such as for example any one or more of a database including relational databases an object oriented data object such as an extensible markup language XML based object a table tree linked list and or other data object format file and or configuration. In aspects the staging engine can also perform any post transfer activities that may be selected or required to complete the installation and storage of the data payload and or related information in the set of host storage clouds . In aspects for instance the staging engine and or other logic or service can communicate with the user premise network to indicate that the data payload and or associated information has been safely and or completely migrated to the data distribution service upon which notification the user premise network can perform other actions such as to delete and or archive the data of the data payload from the set of premise data stores . Other actions can be taken by or in the user premise network .

For instance upon completion of the data transport process the staging engine and or other logic or service can likewise communicate with the cloud management system s of one or more of the set of host storage clouds to notify the one or more cloud management system s of the installation and presence of the data payload and or associated data in the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more of the clouds in the set of host storage clouds .

In aspects after the successful or completed transport of the data payload and or associated information to the set of host storage clouds the staging engine cloud management system s and or other logic or service can for instance register the data payload and or associated data in the file storage system or systems used by the one or more cloud management system s and or set of host storage clouds . In aspects registration of the data payload and or associated data in corresponding file storage system or systems maintained or operated by the one or more cloud management system s and or set of host storage clouds can permit for instance virtual machines operating systems applications and or other software services and or users of the set of host storage clouds and or other clouds or networks to access read retrieve write modify and or otherwise process the data payload and or associated information directly from or via the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the staging engine and or other logic or service can at such times or at other times de activate release and or otherwise terminate some or all of the set of dedicated staging connections and or set of dedicated transport connections as desired or scheduled.

In aspects and as for instance generally illustrated in scenarios may arise or apply where one or more network administrators owners and or other users have migrated instantiated installed and or otherwise stored or hosted a set of cloud populated data in a set of host storage clouds . In cases the administrator owner operator and or other user of the set of cloud populated data can choose to extract or remove some or all of the set of cloud populated data from the set of host storage clouds and distribute that data to a set of step down data stores . The set of step down data stores can be or include target databases data centers local area networks LANs servers optical storage and or other data storage sites of resources to which the administrator owner operator and or other user wishes to transport some or all of their cloud hosted data. That may be the case for instance because that data has become obsolete because the data relates to transactions or activities from a significant period of time ago which is not presently necessary to maintain in an accessible site or format. Other factors can contribute to a decision to migrate some of all of a set of cloud populated data to a set of step down data stores . In aspects one or more of the step down data stores can be located within a set of user premises such as local area networks LANs virtual networks and or other networks sites and or locations.

In aspects the administrator owner operator and or other user can initiate the de population of the set of cloud populated data from the set of host storage clouds by issuing or initiating a set of de population commands for instance by entering selecting or initiating those commands via a browser and or other interface service site or tool. In aspects the set of de population commands can be or include a specification of the set of cloud populated data which the administrator owner operator and or other user wishes to extract and transfer from the set of host storage clouds for example by including data or files names addresses directories locations content and or other attributes or criteria. The staging engine can discover identify locate and or otherwise identify the selected set of cloud populated data for instance by performing a look up of file or data directories addresses or other locations in a file storage system.

In aspects the set of de population commands can also specify a data transport pathway including one or more of a set of dedicated transport connections between the set of host storage clouds and the data distribution service in cases where the selected set of cloud populated data will be transferred to the data distribution service as an intermediate step. The set of de population commands can also or instead specify criteria by which the staging engine can construct a data transport pathway by selection one or more connections in the set of dedicated transport connections such as for instance indicating a set of cost parameters a data transport schedule bandwidth requirements and or other criteria by which to select one or more connections in the set of dedicated transport connections . In aspects the set of de population commands can also include a specification of one or more connections in the set of dedicated reverse staging connections between the data distribution service and the set of step down data stores as part of the data transport pathway. As with the set of dedicated transport connections the set of de population commands can specify individual channels or connections and or criteria by which those channels or connections can be selected in the set of dedicated reverse staging connections including cost schedule bandwidth and or other factors.

In aspects in addition to or instead of generating a transport path via the set of dedicated transport connections to the data distribution service and from there to the set of step down data stores via the set of dedicated reverse staging connections the staging engine and or other logic or service can also establish or configure a data transport pathway including connections from the set of host storage clouds directly to the set of step down data stores via the set of dedicated transport connections the set of dedicated reverse staging connections combinations connections between or extensions of the same and or other channels or connections.

In terms of delivery or upload of data into the set of host storage clouds illustrates a flowchart of overall processing that can be used to identify queue stage and or otherwise transport or manage the data payload and or other data or information according to various aspects of the present teachings. In processing can begin. In the staging engine can be accessed and or initiated for instance via the data distribution service and or other logic or service. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can identify the data in the set of premise data stores and or other data sources to be migrated to the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the data in the set of premise data stores to be migrated can be identified via user selection or input automatically via applications or services and or using other techniques inputs or criteria. In the data distribution service and or other logic or service can generate discover inventory and or otherwise identify the data to comprise the data payload from the data selected in the set of premise data stores and or other data stores or sources. In the staging engine can access and or receive the set of transport parameters for the migration of the data payload . In aspects the set of transport parameters can specify encode store and or otherwise indicate the variables and or configuration settings to be used to initiate conduct and manage the transport of the data payload to the data distribution service and or to the eventual one or more local cloud data store s in the set of host target clouds . In aspects the set of transport parameters can for instance include values for the size of the data to be extracted into the data payload the format or encoding of the data to be extracted into the data payload the language or other attributes of the data payload the schedule by which the transport of the data payload is to be conducted selected and or preferred connections by which the transport of the data payload is to be conducted user names or other identifiers for administrator owner operator and or other user to have access and or management privileges during the transport of the data payload and or other parameters settings and or variables.

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can select identify and or configure the set of dedicated staging connections as well as one or more networks and or other channels or connections to the data distribution service using the set of transport parameters and or other data. For example the set of transport parameters and or other data can identify the vendors carriers and or services or providers of the set of dedicated staging connections and or other channels or connections. For example the set of transport parameters and or other data can identify the bandwidth capacities or classes of the set of dedicated staging connections and or other channels or connections for example to permit the staging engine and or other logic or service to select channels or connections from amongst the set of dedicated staging connections and or other channels or connections that satisfy those or other specifications. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can initiate the migration transfer or transport of the data payload and or associated information from the set of premise data stores and or other data stores or sources to the set of staged data stores via the configured or selected connections in the set of dedicated staging connections one or more networks and or other connections or channels. In aspects the data transport can be initiated by transmitting one or more commands messages or signals from the staging engine to the user premise network the set of dedicated staging connections and or other network elements sites or services. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can receive verify register and or store the received data payload and or associated information in or to the set of staged data stores and or other data stores or resources. In aspects the set of staged data stores can be or include data bases server and or storage farms data centers and or other data hosting facilities co hosted co located located within geographic proximity to and or otherwise integrated with the data distribution service . In aspects the staging engine and or other logic or service can in instances preserve or maintain the data format or configuration in the data payload and or associated information in the set of staged data stores that was used in the storage of the same or similar data in the user premise network and or other data source. In aspects the staging engine and or other logic or service can in instances also or instead update or modify the data format or configuration in the data payload and or associated information in the set of staged data stores that was used in the storage of the same or similar data in the user premise network and or other data source.

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can host maintain and or otherwise manage or condition the data payload and or associated information in the data distribution service while waiting for and or initiating the migration of that data out of the data distribution service to the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the staging engine and or other logic or service can enforce privacy or access controls such as to apply an access control list ACL to govern access to the data payload and or other associated information while stored or hosted in the data distribution service . In the staging engine and or other logic or service can select and or identify one or more connections in the set of dedicated transport connections and or other connections or channels for transfer of the data payload and or other associated information to the set of host storage clouds and their associated storage resources. In aspects the set of dedication transport connections can be or include channels or connections of the same general type or types as the set of dedicated staging connections and or can be or include different or additional channels connections and or services. In aspects the set of dedicated transport connections can be located within geographic proximity to some or all of the one or more local cloud data stores of one some or all clouds in the set of host storage clouds in the same senses described herein. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can initiate the transport or transfer of the data payload and or associated information from the set of staged data stores and or other data sources of the data distribution service to the one or more local cloud data stores in or of the set of host storage clouds . For instance the transport process can be initiated by or via a set of commands or instructions sent from the staging engine to the cloud management system s of the set of host storage clouds by automatic initiation at scheduled times and or based on programmed or predetermined conditions and or via other activation mechanisms. In the one or more local cloud data stores of one or more clouds in the set of host storage clouds and or other logic or service can receive verify register encode and or otherwise store the data payload and or associated information. In aspects for instance the cloud management system s of the corresponding clouds in the set of host storage clouds can register or record the entry of the data payload and or associated information in a file storage system such as a directory and or other type of file or data record. In the staging engine one or more cloud management system s and or other logic or service can record an event log and or other tracking information related to the transport of the data payload and or other information to the set of host storage clouds in or to the cloud management system s and or other data store or stores. In the staging engine user premise network cloud management system s and or other logic or service can delete release mark de activate and or otherwise archive or process the data corresponding to the data payload and or associated data in or from the set of premise data stores . In the staging engine cloud management system s and or other logic or service can redirect and or update one or more links file names file pointers directories and or other file or data identifiers for data in the data payload and or associated information to indicate data storage locations in the one or more local cloud data stores for the use of or access by applications services and or other users or software. In processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

In aspects as noted herein on occasions or based on circumstances or criteria that an owner administrator and or other user may choose to apply a decision may be reach to de populate a set of cloud populated data to remove that data from a set of host storage clouds and migrate transfer transport and or otherwise communicate that data out of cloud based storage resources and store or install that data in a set of step down data stores and or other physical or virtual storage resources. illustrates various data identification extraction and or other processing that can be used to perform de population and associated data transport activities according to aspects of the invention. In processing can begin. In the staging engine of the data distribution service can be initiated and or accessed for instance by an administrator owner operator and or other user of the entity owning or maintaining the set of cloud populated data and or other users. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can receive an identification of the set of cloud populated data to be de populated stepped down to one or more user premise in a set of user premises and or other site destination or storage. For instance the administrator owner operator and or other user of the entity owning or maintaining the set of cloud populated data and or other users can specify data or file names locations directories folders content and or other attributes that indicate the data to be extracted from the set of cloud populated data for transport to other on premise virtual and or other storage. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can receive a set of de population commands containing transport parameters data or transport configuration and or other de population controls or settings to govern the extraction and delivery of the set of cloud populated data and or portions thereof to the set of user premises and or other targets sites locations stores and or destinations.

In the staging engine one or more cloud management system s of one or more of the set of host storage clouds and or other clouds and or other logic or service can receive access generate and or otherwise identify the location or locations of the selected set of cloud populated data via the cloud file system or systems of the set of host storage clouds and or other logic specification table and or record. For example the staging engine and or other logic can access a directory list tree and or other record encoding the address and or location of files and or data contained in the selected set of cloud populated data to read or access the virtual or physical database and or other data store in which some or all of the selected set of cloud populated data is hosted or stored. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can generate a data transport order and or schedule based on the location of the set of cloud populated data the set of de population commands and or other data criteria and or parameters. For instance for portions of data in the set of cloud populated data which are stored in contiguous files and or which serialization of the data may be relatively efficient by direct reading from the one or more local cloud data stores those files and or data can be scheduled or ordered to be transmitted in serial fashion and or at successive times or orders. Other orderings and or scheduling of the set of cloud populated data can be used.

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can select and or identify the set of dedicated transport connections for the transfer of the selected set of cloud populated data to the data distribution service as appropriate. For example those connections or sets of connections in the set of dedicated transport connections which are located within geographic proximity to the selected set of step down data stores and or selected networks or locations in the set of user premises can be identified and or selected to transport parts or all of the set of cloud populated data . Other criteria or factors can be used to identify connections in the set of dedicated transport connections to be used to extract and remove data from the set of host storage clouds to the data distribution service .

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can select and or identify the set of dedicated reverse staging connections from the data distribution service and or the set of host storage clouds to one or more of the step down data stores as appropriate. That is in implementations connections can be established from the one or more local cloud data stores to the data distribution service via the set of dedicated transport connections and from the data distribution service to one or more of the step down data stores via the set of dedication reverse staging connections . In implementations in addition or instead some or all of the necessary connections can be established from the one or more local cloud data stores directly to the set of step down data stores via the set of dedicated transport connections the set of dedicated reverse staging connections and or other connections lines and or channels.

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can initiate the transport of the set of cloud populated data and or portions thereof to one or more of the set of step down data stores . In aspects the set of step down data stores can be co hosted and or located in the set of user premises such as one or more local area networks LANs operated by corporations and or other entities. In aspects the set of de population commands can specify the set of step down data stores to which the selected set of cloud populated data is to be transferred and stored. In aspects the set of de population commands can specify the connections to be used to transport the selected set of cloud populated data and or criteria or conditions under which those connections will be selected and or scheduled. In aspects the set of de population commands can include a specification of the format file type language encoding security data backup or redundancy and or other attributes or characteristics of the selected set of cloud populated data to be stored in the set of step down data stores . In aspects the set of cloud populated data can be transported to and stored in one data store in the set of step down data stores and or can be transported to and stored in multiple data stores. In aspects the set of cloud populated data can be distributed and stored to one or more original data stores in the set of user premises from which that data was originally extracted and populated to the set of host storage clouds . In aspects the set of cloud populated data can be distributed and stored to one or more data stores in the set of step down data stores which did not originally host or store the set of cloud populated data and or for instance which are hosted owned or operated by different organizations or entities than those which originally migrated the set of cloud populated data to the set of host storage clouds .

In the staging engine and or other logic or service can validate and or otherwise complete the transfer of the selected set of cloud populated data to the set of step down data stores and or other data stores hosts or targets. In the staging engine and or other logic or service can delete archive and or otherwise process the image or copy of the set of cloud populated data remaining in the set of host storage clouds if that image or copy remains in the set of host storage clouds as appropriate. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

