---

title: Device, system and method for generating data
abstract: A device is described. The device comprising: a first processor and a first display coupled to the first processor, the first processor being configured to generate first display data, pertaining to elements of a first active application currently being executed on the device, for display on the first display, and generate link data pertaining to a subset of the elements of the first active application; wherein the first processor is configured to output the generated link data to a second display. A system and method are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311041&OS=09311041&RS=09311041
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09311041
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130222
---
A mobile device is routinely used to perform activities that may be being performed on both the mobile device and another device e.g. personal computer. Users often want to transfer content from the mobile device to another different device or complete tasks on one device when they have been started on another device. For example users may leave and return to their computer several times during the day whilst taking a mobile device with them. Even though some content can be accessed from both a mobile device and a computer there is a break in the flow of interaction with the content every time a user switches between devices.

In a first aspect there is provided a device comprising a first processor and a first display coupled to the first processor the first processor being configured to generate first display data pertaining to elements of a first active application currently being executed on the device for display on the first display and generate link data pertaining to a subset of the elements of the first application wherein the first processor is configured to output the generated link data to a second display.

The active application for example the application which is currently being executed on the device and elements of which may be currently displayed on the first display may be the application which is currently being worked on edited interacted with and or viewed by a user. The active application may also include an application that is currently active in the background but which may be minimised or reduced in appearance on the display for example. The elements of an active application may include any aspect or data that is required to generate the data for display. The elements may include one or more of data related to the appearance of the active application the display data used to generate the display information or data on the application that allowed the active application or a similar application to be launched or executed any user specified settings or preferences any text or characters entered by a user and data on any selectable display objects which when selected cause the processor to launch a separate application or a sub application within the active application. The link data includes a subset of any of the above identified elements.

In one example the active application is a message application and more specifically a message composition window. The elements of the message composition window application include the window size and colour the application type e.g. message composition application selectable display objects e.g. selectable display objects for sending the message saving the message or deleting the message and user entered data information of the message including recipient message subject and any text characters in the body of the message. The link data in such an example may include the data on elements related to the type of application and the user entered text characters. This link data can be used to launch a similar application on separate device receiving the link data for composing a message and also populating the respective fields with the user entered data.

In a different example the link data may include display data that is generated based on the elements but may be altered or changed in appearance or functionality. For example a message composition window application on a first device may be small in size and only include a very basic functionality such as fields for user entered data and a single selectable display object for sending the message. The link data in this example includes elements of the message composition window application for example the user entered text but adds further data for display on a second device. For example the link data includes display data for generating a display of a message application that includes a message composition window with the user entered data but also includes further display objects not found in the message composition window application displayed on the first device.

The first processor may be configured to interrogate the first application and obtain data on the elements of the first application and to generate the link data based on the obtained data on the elements of the first application. The link data may comprise data pertaining to one element of the application currently being executed by the first processor. The link data may comprise data pertaining to a plurality of elements of the first application. The link data may comprise data pertaining to one or more display elements or one or more elements of information currently being displayed by the first display.

The link data may comprise data arranged to allow an application to be launched on the second display. The link data may comprise one or more of application type contents of a user editable field displayed icons and or user settings. The link data may comprise second display data pertaining to one or more elements of the first application for display on the second device. The elements of the first application may be one or more display elements or one or more elements of information currently being displayed by the first display.

The link data may comprise second display data pertaining to the first application for display on the second display.

The first processor may be configured to receive link data pertaining to a subset of elements of a second active application executed on the second display and be further configured to launch an application on the device based on the received link data.

The first processor may be configured to receive or transmit the link data in response to communication being terminated or communication about to be being terminated between the device and the second display. For example the first processor may be configured to determine its proximity to the second display and based on the determined proximity commence the receiving and or transmission of the link data. In one embodiment when the proximity between the first processor and second display is determined to be less than a predefined distance e.g. less than 50 m 40 m 30 m 20 m 10 m 9 m 8 m 7 m 6 m 5 m 4 m 3 m 2 m 1 m 0.5 m 0.2 m or 0.1 m.

In some embodiments the first processor may be configured to generate the link data in response to communication being established between the device and the second display or about to be being established. For example the first processor may be configured to determine its proximity to the second display and based on the determined proximity commence the receiving and or transmission of the link data. In one embodiment when the proximity between the first processor and second display is determined to be less than a predefined distance e.g. less than 50 m 40 m 30 m 20 m 10 m 9 m 8 m 7 m 6 m 5 m 4 m 3 m 2 m 1 m 0.5 m 0.2 m or 0.1 m.

In some embodiments the first processor may be configured to receive capability data from the second display and be further configured to generate the link data based on the received capability data. The capability data may comprise data indicative of one or more capabilities or characteristics of the second display. The capability data may pertain to the display capability of the second display. The capability data may pertain to the processing capability of the second display.

The first processor may be configured to remove data pertaining to one or more elements from the link data. The first processor may be configured to disregard one or more of the elements when generating the link data.

In a second aspect there is provided a device comprising a first processor and a first display coupled to the first processor the first processor being configured to receive link data from a second device the link data pertaining to a subset of elements of a first active application currently being executed on the second device and output display data to the first display based on the link data.

In a third aspect there is provided a system comprising a first device and a second device in communication with the first device the first device comprising a first processor and a first display coupled to the first processor the first processor being configured to generate first display data pertaining to elements of a first active application currently being executed on the first device for display on the first display generating link data pertaining to a subset of the elements of the first active application and output the generated link data to the second device and the second device comprising a second processor and a second display coupled to the second processor the second processor being configured to receive the link data from the first device and output display data to the second display based on the link data.

In a fourth aspect there is provided a device comprising the steps of generating first display data pertaining to elements of a first active application currently being executed on the device for display on a first display generating link data pertaining to a subset of the elements of the first active application and outputting the generated link data to a second display.

The method may comprise the step of interrogating the first active application and obtaining data on the elements of the first application and generating the link data based on the obtained data on the elements of the first application.

The link data may comprise data pertaining to one element of the application currently being executed by the first processor. The link data may comprise data pertaining to a plurality of elements of the first application. The link data may comprise data pertaining to one or more display elements or one or more elements of information currently being displayed by the first display.

The link data may comprise one or more of application type contents of a user editable field displayed icons and or user settings.

The link data may comprise second display data pertaining to elements of the first application for display on the second display.

The link data may comprise second display data pertaining to the first application for display on the second display.

The method may comprise the steps of receiving link data pertaining to a subset of elements of a second active application executed on the second display and launching an application on the device based on the received link data.

The step of receiving the link data may occur or commence in response to communication being terminated between the device and the second display or communication about to be being terminated between the device and the second display. For example the first processor may be configured to determine its proximity to the second display and based on the determined proximity commence the receiving and or transmission of the link data. In one embodiment when the proximity between the first processor and second display is determined to be less than a predefined distance e.g. less than 50 m 40 m 30 m 20 m 10 m 9 m 8 m 7 m 6 m 5 m 4 m 3 m 2 m 1 m 0.5 m 0.2 m or 0.1 m.

The method may comprise the step of generating the link data in response to communication being established between the device and the second display or communication about to be being established. For example the first processor may be configured to determine its proximity to the second display and based on the determined proximity commence the receiving and or transmission of the link data. In one embodiment when the proximity between the first processor and second display is determined to be less than a predefined distance e.g. less than 50 m 40 m 30 m 20 m 10 m 9 m 8 m 7 m 6 m 5 m 4 m 3 m 2 m 1 m 0.5 m 0.2 m or 0.1 m.

The method may comprise the steps of receiving capability data from the second display and generating the link data based on the received capability data.

The capability data may pertain to one or more capabilities or characteristics of the second display. The capability data may pertain to the display capability of the second display. The capability data may pertain to processing capability of the second display.

The method may comprise the step of removing data pertaining to one or more elements from the link data. The method may comprise the step of disregarding one or more of the elements when generating the link data.

In a fifth aspect there is provided a method for a device comprising the steps of receiving link data from a second device the link data pertaining to a subset of elements of a first active application currently being executed on a second device and outputting display data to a first display of the first device based on the link data.

In a sixth aspect there is provided a method for a system comprising a first device and a second device in communication with the first device the method comprising the steps of generating first display data pertaining to elements of a first active application currently being executed on the first device for display on the first display generating link data pertaining to a subset of the elements of the first active application outputting the generated link data to the second device receiving the link data from the first device by the second device and outputting display data to a second display of the second device based on the link data.

In a seventh aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions which when executed cause a processor to perform one or more of the above methods. The executable instructions may be computer executable instructions. A device may be configured to receive the executable instructions from the computer readable medium and or comprise the executable instructions and be configured to execute the executable instructions.

In an eighth aspect there is provided a device configured to perform one or more of the above methods. The device may further comprise a processor configured to perform one or more of the above methods. The processor may comprise one or more discrete electronic components.

Reference is made to which illustrates an electronic device which is usable in accordance with the disclosure below. An electronic device such as the electronic device of is configured to generate a user controllable interface on a built in display and or on a remote external display device or on a built in display and on a remote external display device. In the context of this disclosure the term remote means a display screen which is not built in to the electronic device with which the electronic device communicates via a physical wired connection or via a wireless connection.

It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which are intended to perform solely operations in relation to the generation and output of display data and the modification of media content output.

In one embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly may be a mobile or handheld device such as a mobile or handheld communication device for example having data and voice communication capabilities. It may also have the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via a data link or network such as a short range radio frequency link e.g. Bluetooth or via a data network which may be wireless and may be connected to the Internet. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed below. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in certain embodiments the electronic device is a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile handheld or portable communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile means the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimetres. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket.

The electronic device includes a controller including a processor such as a microprocessor which controls the operation of the electronic device . In certain electronic devices more than one processor is provided with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spread sheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as an email application an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one embodiment the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other embodiments the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In certain embodiments the external video output port is integrated with the data port . The external video output port is configured to connect the electronic device via a wired connection e.g. video graphics array VGA digital visual interface DVI or high definition multimedia interface HDMI to an external or remote display device which is separate and remote from the electronic device and its display . The processor outputs external display data generated by the processor via the external video output port such that the external display device can display application data from the memory module in a predetermined way on an external display screen not shown of the external display device . The processor may also communicate the external display data to the external display device in a similar fashion over a wireless communications path.

At any given time the display data and the external display data generated by the processor may be identical or similar for a predetermined period of time but may also differ for a predetermined period of time with the processor controlling whether the display data and the external display data are identical or differ based on input from one or more of the input interfaces . In this context the word identical means that both sets of data comprise similar content so as to generate an identical or substantially similar display at substantially the same time on both the external display device and the display . In this context the word differ means that the external display data and display data are not identical this is to say that these data may but not necessarily include identical elements of data for example representative of the same application data but the external display data and display data are not wholly identical. Hence the display on both the external display device and the display are not wholly identical although similar or identical individual items of content based on the application data may be displayed on both the external display device and the display .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes a touchscreen which acts as both an input interface e.g. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The processor is in communication with the memory and the touch sensitive input interface to detect user input via the input interface . The processor then generates or updates display data comprising a display object for display by the display device in accordance with the user input. The processor then outputs the display data for display on the display device . In an embodiment the user input may comprise a swipe gesture across the touchscreen interface .

In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay has a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame not shown which surrounds the display . In such embodiments the frame not shown may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some embodiments the electronic device includes a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP which is in communication with the processor . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device communicates with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network.

In some embodiments the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device in at least some embodiments includes a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device includes a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some embodiments each speaker is associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem and the short range wireless communications subsystem serves as a communication subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of an incoming message being received by the electronic device . The incoming message may be an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message or a telephone call for example.

The electronic device is in some embodiments a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as a media player module . In the embodiment of the media player module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other embodiments the presentation module could be implemented as part of the operating system or other applications .

As discussed above electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to a communications log may take a variety of forms. In at least some embodiments one or more of the electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to the presentation module are a smart phone or a tablet computer.

Referring now to a front view of an electronic device which in one example may be a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the embodiment the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The smartphone may also include a speaker . In the embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the smartphone of includes a single speaker in other embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The smartphone also includes a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which in one embodiment may be a tablet computer is illustrated. The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

A frame surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the electronic device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display .

The tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other embodiments.

The tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

The tablet computer may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the tablet computer.

The electronic device which may be tablet computer is usable by an end user to send and receive communications using electronic communication services supported by a service provider.

The end user of an electronic device may send and receive communications with different entities using different electronic communication services. Those services may or may not be accessible using one or more particular electronic devices. For example a communication source of an end user s text messages sent and received by an end user using a particular electronic device having a particular memory module such as a USIM may be accessible using that device but those text messages may not be accessible using another device having a different memory module. Other electronic communication sources such as a web based email account may be accessible via a web site using a browser on any internet enabled electronic device.

Servers and are also connected to the communications network and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers.

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using communications network . For example a user of smart phone may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to smart phone and to display application data on a display screen of the external display device or control the display of application data.

The embodiment shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using smartphone to a wired phone not shown .

Selectable display objects are executable on the device that may be representative of an application stored in the memory flash memory or installed on the device . In this case responsive to detection of a user input selecting the selectable display object the processor opens or runs the application i.e. begins execution of the instructions associated with the application .

A display object corresponding to a process may be maximized so that no other display objects are visible. For example if the processor is executing a process causing output of an image the image may be viewed using the full screen thereby preventing any further display objects from being simultaneously viewed. Alternatively it may be possible to view multiple display objects simultaneously on the display . These multiple display objects may be connected with the operation of a single given process or application which is being executed or performed by the processor . Additionally one or more display objects may be displayed so as to partially overlay other display objects thereby obscuring the view of the other display objects.

In one embodiment as depicted display object is representative of a message composition screen or window of a message application that is currently active and a user is editing or working on. It will appreciate that the message composition may be minimised or reduced and not currently displayed but may still be described as an active application currently being executed. The display data for a display object is generated by the processor of the device for an application executable on the device when executed where the display data pertains to the executable application. In this embodiment an email message composition window is depicted where the display data for generating the display pertains to a message composition application. The message composition application includes one or more elements for example the type of application and user entered text fields e.g. subject recipient body of the message .

It will be appreciated that other types of message or composition windows may be used e.g. text multimedia or SMS message . Furthermore embodiments are not limited to messaging and also include other applications or programs that allow a user to enter edit text or characters. For example the display object may be a word processing application or an internet browser application.

In addition to the message composition window there is also depicted a keyboard that is generated by the processor to allow input via a touchscreen or input interface of the device .

The device is depicted with the message composition window before a communication connection is established with another second or further e.g. auxiliary device. In this embodiment a user is composing an email message on the device .

A further device is depicted in . The device corresponds to the tablet device illustrated in . The mobile device and device establish a communication connection via their respective short range communication subsystems . In at least some embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication between the two similarly enabled devices. Alternatively the two devices may be connected or docked using a physical connection such as a USB cable via the devices respective auxiliary O I subsystems or a high definition multimedia interface or HDMI. The communication channel is depicted in the figure with a solid black line which could be a wireless or wired connection.

When connection or communication is established between the two devices the processor of the device generates application data or link data. The term link data is intended to refer to data that is generated by the processor of the device by interrogating applications or programs executable on the device . The link data is subsequently communicated to a further device device and comprises data related to in this embodiment any applications or programs currently running on the device . The link data may include various aspects or elements of the application including display data for display by the further device data related to the application such as for example the name of an application an application type e.g. message composer word processor or internet browser version data and or data on any characters that have been entered e.g. text body of an email subject of an email or recipient contact details email address in an application currently active or running on the device . It will be appreciated that if multiple applications are active or running on the mobile device multiple sets of link data may be generated with set of link data corresponding to one active or running application. The term running means an application which is currently being executed by the device s processor or for which information is currently being held in memory.

In the embodiment of the link data comprising display data the display data may be display data to enable a second display to copy or replicate the display of a first device or may only comprise one or more elements of an application which when combined with other elements not forming part of the display on the first device form a complete display for a second device that is different in appearance than the display of the first device.

The processor of the device as part of the communication establishment obtains data on the capability of the device received from the device . The capability data may include the processing capability of the device and the display resolution of the device . The transfer of capability data from the device to the device is optionally performed to determine what type of link data should be generated and output. For example if the device does not include a specific application or does not have sufficient processing capability to run or execute applications the link data may include display data. Alternatively the link data generated may include link data for launching an application and generating display data for display on the device . If the link data includes link data for launching an application and generating a display the device receiving the link data may communicate to the device that it is able to launch an application based on the link data such that it is no longer necessary to output display data for generating a display to the device . Alternatively the device receiving the link data may communicate to the device that it is not capable of launching an application and the device may continue to generate and output only display data for generating a display. In such an embodiment the device may continue to generate and communicate link data that includes data relating to elements of an active application and display data unless the receiving device communicates otherwise.

The processor communicates or transmits the link data to the device via the established communication channel . The establishment of the communication connection may be referred to as an event and will trigger the processor to generate the link data and communicate it to the device . Furthermore the link data may be transmitted to the device as part of the connection establishment protocol.

The processor of the device receives the link data via its respective short range communication subsystem . In this embodiment the device will act upon the received link data without intervention from a user. That is to say that the user is not provided with an option whether or not to act on the received link data.

In this embodiment the link data that is generated by the processor of the mobile device relates to the message composition window that is currently active or open on the display of the device . The link data in this embodiment comprises data on the currently active application which comprises a message composition application type and user entered data or characters which comprise the address e.g. email address of the recipient in the active composition window any characters entered in the subject line and any characters entered in the body of the message e.g. email .

The link data as described above is communicated to the device via the established communication channel . In this embodiment the determined capability data of the device received from the device indicates that the device is capable of running or executing applications. Therefore based on the determined capability the link data comprises data to allow the device to launch an application.

The device receives the link data from the device and launches or executes an application based on the application type data contained in the link data. In this embodiment the application type is a message composition application. Accordingly the processor of the device launches or opens a message composition application stored within memory and generates display data pertaining to the message composition application for display on the display of the device as is illustrated in . The device includes a large display i.e. the display of the device has a greater area than the device so that the corresponding application includes more functionality than the similar application executed on the device . In this embodiment the message application launched on the display of the device includes one or more selectable display objects arranged on the left hand side of the message application . For example the selectable display objects when selected may launch a search function to search for message items and or access to other message folders. The message application further includes a list of message items which are illustrated using envelope icons indicative of an email application but it will appreciated that other icons or display objects may be used. Each display object may include brief details of the message for example sender subject and data time details. One of the messages is highlighted for example if selected by a user which causes the message application to provide an expanded view of the message as illustrated on the right hand side of the message application . The expanded view of message also includes selectable display objects or icons for a user to select an action related to the message item for example reply forward and delete.

The link data received by the processor of the device in this embodiment includes data on a message being composed. Accordingly in further response to the link data a new composition window is launched or opened by the processor of the device and the data contained in the link data is entered in the new composition window . In this embodiment the recipient subject and character of the body of the message is copied to the newly launched message composition window from the link data. Accordingly a user is able to continue editing the message and may send the message when complete via the device .

In this embodiment after the link data is sent to the device any open or active applications may be closed by the processor of the device . Alternatively any active applications including an open message composition window may remain open until a user returns to the device where the user may make a selection to close any applications and incomplete messages for example.

Thus in this embodiment a user is able to continue composing an email on a larger device that was initially being composed on a smaller handheld device when the two devices are docked or connected to one another to allow for communication to be established.

A described above when the device is docked or connected with the display device the device determines the capabilities of the display device . In the embodiment the device communicates with the display device to determine the display and processing capabilities of the display device . In this embodiment the display device is determined to be incapable of launching applications but includes a larger display than the display of the device . Thus in this embodiment the larger display of the display device may be used to display an application open or running on the device but with a larger more functional user interface. The communication channel in this embodiment may be performed via the auxiliary input output I O subsystems the data port or the external video output port described above.

The device following the establishment of a connection and the determination of the capabilities of the display device will generate link data related to the currently active or open application by interrogating the currently active or open application. In this embodiment the active application is a message application . The display of the device is small in size so as is typically known in the art only the composition window is displayed without displaying other related display objects for example a list of messages. Thus the generated link data in this embodiment includes elements of the application displayed on the display of device e.g. message items pertaining to the message application . These elements of the message application are then combined by the processor of the device with other display objects to generate a functionally and visually different display for the display device . In this embodiment the processor of the device generates display data for a display on the display of the device of a message composition application and the processor of the device generates link data for outputting to the display device . The link data comprises display data for display on the display of the display device that includes elements of the application when displayed on the device and further includes other elements for example selectable display objects for launching a search function to search message items and access other message folders a list of message items and an open message window . The open message window further includes a number of selectable display objects which when selected may execute a message composition window to reply to the message or forward the message or may cause the messaged to be deleted. It will be appreciated that the processor of the device generates the display data for both devices where at least one element in the display data for the device is the same as at least one element in the display data for the second display device .

In this embodiment the display device includes an input device e.g. touchscreen to allow a user to input data and select displayed items. For example a user may select a message item which is highlighted in the figure on the display of the display device . The selection of the message item causes the processor of the device executing the message application to provide the expanded view of the message as illustrated on the right hand side of the message application . While the user navigates the message application on the display device the processor of the device continues to generate and output display data to the display of the device . This is illustrated in the figure by the highlighted message which corresponds to the highlighted message displayed on the display of the display device .

To enable the display device to control the applications executed on the device the processor of the display device generates control data that is communicated to the device via the established communication link . In an alternative embodiment the display device does not include any suitable user input devices. In this alternative embodiment a user is able to use the input device of the device to control the application running on the device but displayed on the display device . It will be appreciated that while the link data is generated and communicated to the display device a similar reduced display is still generated by the processor of the device and displayed on the display of the device .

In an alternative embodiment the display device may not include a user input such that the user will continue to control the message application on the device using the user input device of the device . It will be appreciated that since the display data output to the display device is generated by the processor of the device the processor of the device is able to allow a user to utilise an input device of the device to make selections based on the display of the display device . For example the processor of the device may generate and provide a cursor that is movable by a user on the display of the display device to allow selections to be made.

In this embodiment the link data corresponds to display data generated by the processor of the device . It will be appreciated that the display data will be repeatedly generated by the processor of the device for example at a rate of 50 Hz or integer values up to 600 Hz depending on the capabilities of the display device . In the embodiment where the link data comprises data associated with an application it may only be necessary to generate and communicate the data once.

Thus a user is provided with a greater amount of functionality than that available on a smaller handheld device since the processor of the device is configured to generate two sets of display data for a single application executable on the device .

In this example a message application is currently active on the device and the processor of the device has previously executed the message application from memory for example and generates display data pertaining to the message application for display on the display of the device . The message application is illustrated in the figure as a list of messages . In this embodiment each message is illustrated by an envelope icon or display object as is typical for email messages but it will be appreciated that the display object may differ depending on the type of message in the list of messages . Each message in the list is also accompanied by data related to or associated with the message for example message subject message sender and date time information.

A user may connect or dock the device with the display device as is described above in association with for example. The connection protocol is similar to that described above. Accordingly once a communication connection is established and the processor of the device has determined the capability of the display device the processor generates link data pertaining to the message application . It will be appreciated that it is not necessary to determine the capability of the display device before the processor of the device generates and outputs the link data to the display device . For example after a connection is established between the device and the display device the processor of the device may generate and output link data to the display device comprising multiple sets of link data including link data for launching an application display data pertaining to a display different than that displayed on the device and display data pertaining to a display that is the same as that displayed on the device . The processor of the display device is configured to determine which data the processor is capable of executing and communicates the determination to the processor of the device so that the processor of the device is configured to generate and output data that the display device is capable of executing.

The link data generated and output by the processor of the device in this embodiment relates to a selected one of the messages or elements in the list of messages displayed on the display of the device which is highlighted in the figure. The link data in this embodiment is display data relating to an element of a selected or highlighted message such that the selected or highlighted message is displayed on the second display device . For example the list view of messages includes for each item the message sender and subject line. These elements are used to generate the display data for display on the display device . The link data when it is received by the processor of the display device is used to generate the display of a message . The displayed message includes the elements from the selected or highlighted message and also includes one or more display objects not displayed in the list of messages displayed on the display of the device which when selected provide to a user actions related to the displayed message and may include reply forward or delete.

Similarly but not illustrated a user may select one of the display objects displayed on the display of the device . The selectable display objects may include selectable actions such as compose a message or reply to a highlighted message item. When a user selects one of the display objects for example compose the processor of the device generates link data pertaining to a message composition window which is subsequently output to the processor of the display device for display. It will be appreciated that as a user enters data in the message composition window e.g. recipient subject body of message using input device of the device for example the link data will be repeatedly generated and output by the processor of the device to reflect the entered data.

Thus in an embodiment a user is provided with a display on a second device pertaining to an element of an application executable on a first device.

The scenario depicted in relates to a user docking or connecting a handheld mobile device with a second device that allows a user to continue to work uninterrupted. In this embodiment a user is editing a document Document 1 that is displayed on the device . The document in this embodiment is a document that is open on a word processing application executed by the processor of the device . The word processing application is an application executable on the device and may be stored in memory in the device for example in the flash memory . The document may be a new document and may be stored on the device or may be stored elsewhere. For example one or more of the servers and illustrated in may provide a remote storage capability for storage of documents accessible by the device and device .

The processor of the device may also monitor the applications and files that are viewed on the device or are attempted to be viewed on the device. For example a user may attempt to open a document on the device but if the document is not supported by the device the document will not open. Details or application data of these applications and documents may be stored within memory e.g. flash memory of the device . The application data may be referred to as link data and comprises data related to one or more elements e.g. file name application name application type or file location of the applications or files currently open or previously accessed. The stored details may include one or more of the type of application user entered details website URL or address a document name and a document location. For example if a user views a website on the device the URL of the viewed website is stored as text or characters or if a user views a file the name and location of the document e.g. pointer is stored along with the name or type of associated application used to view the document.

The processor of the device may store the above mentioned details for a given period of time. For example the processor may store the details of all the documents and applications viewed on a given day e.g. today. Alternatively the processor may store the details of all applications and files accessed since a previous event. For example an event may be the last or previous time that the two devices were connected together or may be the last time that a user logged in to the device .

Furthermore the processor may be configured to filter the application data or details of the applications and files that are viewed or are attempted to be viewed to only include the application data related to applications and files that could not be viewed or accessed or were viewed but with a reduced or poor resolution or viewing experience. For example if a high definition video or image is viewed on a smaller device e.g. device it is likely that the viewing experience may not be good since the size of the screen is not as well suited for high definition content as a larger screen. Also if a user attempts to view video content while the content is being downloaded over a wireless network for example the content may be paused during buffering providing a reduced performance of the content.

When the device is brought into proximity with the device the two devices will establish a communication connection as described above. The term proximity is used to describe the two devices as being within communication range of one another. It will be appreciated that the devices may have been previously paired or previously configured to recognise one another and establish a communication connection without further intervention from a user. As part of the communication establishment the device may communicate details of a user or user identification to the device . The establishment of the communication connection may be referred to as an event as described further below.

When the device and the device have established communication the processor of the device generates application data relating to or associated with any currently open or active applications or documents and any stored application data from previously accessed or application accesses previously attempted or documents. In this embodiment the application data generated by the processor of the device contains data relating to the document open on the device two other recently accessed documents an application and a website. For example the two recently accessed documents are documents that could not be opened on the device due to incompatibility issues and the application was executed and the website was viewed in the time period since the device was connected with the device . The processor outputs the generated application data to the tablet via the connection .

A user may access the device using a log in for example as is known in the art. If a log in is used the identity of the user may be used to verify that any received application data received from the device should be provided to the user. The log in may also be considered to be an event that triggers the processor of the device to generate and output the application data. For example the two devices may establish a connection but no application data is provided to the device . Rather once a user successfully accesses the device e.g. via a successful log in the device communicates the successful access to the device such that the log in event causes the device to generate and output the application data to the device .

In some embodiments the application data is generated by the processor of the device and is output to the processor of the device when communication is established. However the processor of the device may not act upon the received data until an event is detected such as for example a user interaction with the device e.g. a user log in.

The processor of the device receives the application data pertaining to a display of application data associated with applications executable on the device . For example the device receives application data related to applications on the device to allow the device to generate a display of applications and file that are executable on the device .

The processor of the device generates a display for handover of applications and files for display on the display of the device based on the received application data from the device . The display includes a number of selectable display objects which when selected by a user for example using the input device of the device cause the processor of the device to launch or execute an appropriate application or open a file. It will be appreciated that to open a file it may also be necessary to launch an appropriate application. In this embodiment the display includes a display object for the currently open file of the device display objects for two previously opened documents that were accessed since the two devices were connected display object for an application which is not supported by the device but the user attempted to open and is available on the device and the display object for a website containing content that could not be effectively viewed on the display of the device . It will be appreciated that the processor of the device may only display objects for those files or applications that can be executed or opened on the device .

In response to a user selection of one of the display objects the processor of the device opens or launches the appropriate application related to the display object. For example if a user selects the display object related to the website the processor launches from memory an application that is capable of accessing websites and enters an address or URL for the recently viewed website using the application data received from the processor of the device . Furthermore if a user selects the display object related to the open document the processor of the device opens an application from memory capable of viewing an editing the document and opens the document within the launched application. The document may be retrieved directly from memory of the device using the details of the document e.g. document name and location or may obtain the document from a remote server using a pointer to the document both pointer and document details being contained in the application data received from the device .

After a selection is made based on the handover display the display object related to the selected object may disappear from the handover display. The handover display may continue to be displayed until the connection between the two devices is lost or terminated and may be closed by a user. When the two devices are connected the device may display a screen stating that handover to the laptop is being performed. Furthermore in the embodiment where a document currently open on the device is selected to be opened on the device the device may first save and close the document in response to data received from the device .

In the embodiment illustrated in the event that triggers the application data to be generated and output may be different and includes a user log out of the device or when the device reaches a predetermined distance from the device which may be detected using the communication protocol. For example if the device is moved away from the device to the extent that it is determined that the devices will soon lose the established communication connection the processor of the device will generate application data and output the application data to the device . Detecting the distance between two devices that are in communication via a short range communication protocol is known in the art and may use for example signal strength.

Similar to the embodiment illustrated in the application data relates to currently open files and applications on the device and previously opened or accessed applications and files. For example all applications and files accessed on the device since the two devices established the current communication connection may be stored in a memory of the device e.g. flash memory and used to generate the application data which is output to the device when it is detected that the device has moved away from the device to a position that is a predetermined distance away. The predetermined distance may be an integer distance in meters ranging from 1 to 30 meters.

In a manner similar to that described in association with the processor of the device generates display data for display on the display of the device containing selectable display objects related to files and applications associated with application data received from the device .

For example in a file is open and displayed on the display of the device that contains characters or text. Therefore when a display is generated by the processor of the device the display includes a display object corresponding to the file . As above the file may be stored locally in memory of the device or remotely. The display further includes selectable display objects for a recently opened document selectable display object and a recently viewed image selectable display object .

The display may also include appropriate labels or headings to indicate which display objects relate to currently open files or applications e.g. open and recently opened or accessed applications or files e.g. recent .

In this embodiment the document open on the device may be the same document that was previously open on the device and may still be open on the device . Therefore when handing back to the device and a user selects to open the same document on the device which is currently open on both device the user may be promoted or asked to close the instance of the document currently open on the device . Alternatively the processor of the device may close the current instance of the open document open on device without saving changes so as not to lose any changes made while the file was open on the device .

In an embodiment when handing over between devices the processor of the respective devices may save all current open files to avoid data being lost.

In an embodiment when the processor of the device generates the display based on the received application data the processor of the device only displays selectable display objects related to those applications and files that can be opened or launched on the device . That is to say that the processor determines the capabilities of the device and selects those applications and files that can be opened or launched on the device . The determination may be based on the capabilities of the processor or the display of the device or may be based on the applications currently stored in memory on the device .

In some embodiments the event that triggers the handover between the two devices includes one device being picked up or put down which may be determined by one or more sensors e.g. orientation sensor a user interacting with one device based on an active input using input device or one of the two device being idle for a predetermined time.

At block the processor generates display data for an active application that is currently executed on the first device .

At block the processor outputs the generated display data to a display e.g. display of the first device . For example the application is a message composer so that a message composition window is displayed. The message composition window may include various types of data or elements that allow the display to be generated for example the type of application version data of the application and any user entered data information or populated fields such as a message address recipient e.g. email address message subject or message body. Further data on the application relating to elements of the application will also be included in the display data related to the visual appearance of the application including any selectable display objects.

At block the processor generates link data for or pertaining to the presently active application. The link data includes data on various ones of the elements described above. For example the link data includes in one example the application type and any user entered data. However some of the elements of the application which are present in the display data may be disregarded by the processor or omitted from the link data. For example the link data in one example does not include any data related to the appearance of the display. In an alternative embodiment the processor may include all the elements relating to the display of the application in the link data but remove or discard one or more elements before the link data is output.

In block the link data is output or communicated to the processor of the second device . In block the link data is received by second device .

In block the processor of the second device generates display data based on the link data. For example the processor of the second device executes or launches an application based on the application type data in the link data and enters or populates appropriate fields in the application based on the user entered data and generates display data pertaining to the executed application including the populated fields.

At block the processor of the second device detects an event. For example the first device is a portable handheld device and the second device is a laptop or portable computer and the detected event is the first device moving away from the second device to a predetermined distance.

At block the processor of the second device generates application data or first application data associated with one or more applications executable on the second device . The executable applications may include applications that are currently running or active on the device or previously launched or activated applications. Data on the previously launched applications may be stored within a memory of the device .

At block the first application data generated by the processor of the second device is output to the first device .

At block the first application data generated by the processor of the second device is received by the first device .

At block the processor of the first device generates second application data for display. The second application data relates to or pertains to the first application data. For example the second application data includes one or more selected display objects which when selected launch or execute an application similar to the application being executed or previously executed on the second device . The selectable display objects may also relate to files or documents that are stored in the second device the first device or may be stored remotely and accessed using a pointer. For documents and files the first application data received from the second device may include document name document location or pointer and data on an associated application used to view the file.

At block the second application data is output to a display of the first device for display to allow a user selection.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of device and methods e.g. first and second devices the devices may include components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct the apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It should be understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

It will be appreciated that the foregoing discussion relates to particular embodiments. However in other embodiments various aspects and examples may be combined.

