---

title: Systems and methods for low power consumption in wireless communication systems
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for low power consumption in wireless communication systems are disclosed herein. An evolved node B (eNodeB) is configured to provide a connection reconfiguration message to user equipment (UE) connected to the eNodeB, the connection reconfiguration message configuring the UE to indicate a power preference. The eNodeB receives assistance information from the UE. The assistance information includes a low power preference indication and a timer length, wherein the timer length indicates a preferred duration for a low power mode. The eNodeB provides, in response to receiving the assistance information, a connection release message to the UE. The connection release message includes paging discontinuous reception (DRX) information that includes the timer length.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462555&OS=09462555&RS=09462555
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09462555
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to wireless communication networks. Specifically this disclosure relates to systems and methods for communicating and processing enhanced user equipment assistance information in wireless communication systems.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs or eNodeBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the base station or eNodeB to the wireless mobile device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless mobile device to the base station.

In many wireless systems including previous LTE systems UEs have little or no control over certain functions and processes that prolong the UE s battery and or achieve better performance e.g. in terms of latency for applications running on the UE. Rather many such functions and processes are determined by the eNodeB without input from the UE.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

As discussed above UEs have little or no control over certain functions and processes that prolong the UE s battery and or minimize latency for applications running on the UE. For example a base station such as an eNodeB controls the RAN functions to support the UE. However due to the proliferation of smartphones and other mobile devices that run diverse mobile internet applications the UE can achieve power savings and latency requirements more effectively if it is allowed to communicate its preferences constraints and or requirements to the eNodeB in the form of UE assistance information. Additionally eNodeBs that effectively handle and process the UE assistance information can maximize power saving of the UE reduce latency and or improve quality of service for users on one or more UEs utilizing supporting communication infrastructure. Although the present disclosure discusses UEs one skilled in the art will recognize that the present disclosure and teachings also apply to machine to machine communication.

The communication system illustrates a variety of components that may be used to provide communication services or access to user equipment . The communication system includes E UTRAN which includes a plurality of eNodeBs . A universal terrestrial radio access network UTRAN and a global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates GSM evolution EDGE radio access network GERAN are also included as examples for backwards compatibility.

The communication system also includes a mobility management entity MME a home subscriber server HSS and a serving general packet radio service GPRS support node SGSN . A serving gateway SGW a packet data network gateway PGW and a policy and charges rules function PCRF provide access to an operator s internet protocol IP services . Example interfaces for communication between the various components are also indicated.

The UE transceiver component is configured to communicate with an eNodeB or other radio. The UE transceiver component may include one or more antennas and or processing circuitry to send and receive messages wirelessly. The UE transceiver component may operate to send and receive messages on behalf of other components or a processor of the UE . According to one embodiment the UE transceiver component may be powered off to reduce energy consumption of the UE .

The connection component stores and or negotiates connection details for the UE . In one embodiment the connection component stores information regarding a communication session with an eNodeB . For example the connection component may store an identifier for an eNodeB or other component of a communication system . Additionally the connection component may be configured to receive messages via the UE transceiver component regarding establishing a connection reconfiguring a connection and or releasing a connection with the communication system . The connection component may modify or update connection information based on information received in a message.

The power mode component controls the UE to selectively place the UE in one or more power modes. The power mode component may power off a portion of the UE to reduce power consumption. For example the power mode component may power off the UE transceiver component place a processor in an idle mode or control power used by other components of the UE . In one embodiment the power mode component causes the UE to enter a low power mode by powering off transceiver circuitry and processing circuitry that is not required for maintaining radio state information of the UE. Different power modes may be selected to result in different combinations of energy savings and performance benefits. In one embodiment the power mode component may be configured to follow a schedule timer or cycle to maintain the UE in a power state expected by the communication system .

The power mode component may also determine a preferred current power mode. For example the power mode component may receive information regarding tasks or resource usage on the UE and determine a preferred current power mode. For example the power mode component may determine that current resource usage or tasks by the UE are small enough that the UE may be placed in a low power mode for a period of time. For example the power mode component may determine that a processor UE transceiver component or other component of the UE will not need to perform any task for a period of time. The power mode component may determine based on the lack of tasks to perform or resources to be used on the UE that the UE may be placed in low power mode.

The power mode component may also determine an amount of time for the UE to be within a low power mode. For example if the power mode component determines that the UE transceiver component will not likely need to send or receive messages for a few seconds the power mode component may determine a timer length for the UE that indicates a preferred duration to be in the low power mode.

The assistance information component determines assistance information to be sent to a communication system . The assistance information component may cause the UE transceiver component to send the assistance information in a message to an eNodeB or other radio. In one embodiment the assistance information component receives preferences from other components of the UE and forwards these preferences to an eNodeB or other portion of a communication system . The eNodeB and or the communication system may allow or instruct the UE to enter a lower power mode based on these preferences.

In one embodiment the assistance information component includes a power preference indication in the assistance information based on a power preference determined by the power mode component . For example the assistance information component may send a low power preference indication to an eNodeB in response to the power mode component determining that a lower power mode is preferred. The assistance information component may include a timer length in the assistance information. The timer length may indicate to the communication system or eNodeB a length of time during which the UE will enter a low power mode and thus be unavailable to receive and or send messages. This timer length may be used by the network such as eNodeB to derive a DRX timer in an idle mode or a connected mode or the timer length may indicate a value for the DRX timer itself.

The eNodeB transceiver component is configured to communicate with a UE or other component of a communication system . The eNodeB transceiver component may include one or more antennas and or processing circuitry to send messages to and receive messages from the UE wirelessly. The eNodeB transceiver component may operate to send and receive messages based on instruction or information from other components or a processor of the eNodeB .

The connection configuration component stores and determines connection details for the UE and or additional UEs connected to the eNodeB . In one embodiment the connection configuration component stores information regarding a communication session with a UE . For example the connection configuration component may store an identifier for a UE as well as session information for the UE . The connection configuration component may be configured to configure a connection with a UE so as to establish reconfigure or release a connection with the UE . In one embodiment the connection configuration component utilizes radio resource control RRC messaging to configure the UE and or a connection with the UE . The connection configuration component may modify or release a connection with the UE based on information received from an MME SGW or other component of the communication system .

The assistance information component receives and processes assistance information from a UE . For example the assistance information component of the eNodeB may receive assistance information determined by the assistance information component of the UE . The assistance information component may receive assistance information that a power preference indication for the UE . The assistance information may include a timer length that indicates to the eNodeB a length of time during which the UE will enter a low power mode and thus be unavailable to receive and or send messages. This timer length may be used by the eNodeB to derive a DRX timer in an idle mode or a connected mode or the timer length may indicate a value for the DRX timer itself.

The assistance information component may cause the connection configuration component to modify release and or reestablish a connection with a UE based on the assistance information received from the UE . For example the assistance information component may receive assistance information from the UE through the eNodeB transceiver component and the connection configuration component may reconfigure or release a connection with the UE based on the assistance information.

The signal strength component determines a signal strength of the UE . The signal strength component may determine the signal strength of the signal transmitted by the UE as received by the eNodeB and or may determine the signal strength from the eNodeB as received at the UE . In one embodiment the signal strength component may determine a received signal strength indicator RSSI for the UE . The signal strength component may determine the signal strength based on tests performed by the UE and or by the signal strength component of the eNodeB .

In one embodiment the signal strength component compares the signal strength of the UE with a handover threshold. The handover threshold may indicate a signal strength at which the UE should be switched to a new cell or radio such as a new eNodeB . In one embodiment the signal strength component determines whether the signal strength of the UE is near the handover threshold even if it is not at the handover threshold. For example the signal strength component may determine whether the signal strength is within a specific range of the handover threshold. The range may include that the signal strength is within a specific number of decibels dBs . Alternatively the range may include a range of RSSI values based on arbitrary units surrounding the handover threshold.

The handover component controls a handover procedure for handing the UE to a new cell or new eNodeB . The handover component may communicate with the UE MME SGW or other component to transfer a communication session for the UE to another cell eNodeB or the like. In one embodiment the handover component stores and or configures a number of settings for handing over the UE . For example the handover component may store or configure a handover threshold information for a target eNodeB where the UE will be handed over or the like.

In one embodiment the handover component modifies the handover procedure or the settings for a handover procedure based on the assistance information. In one embodiment the handover component reduces a handover threshold or determines that a handover procedure will not be performed. As one example the handover component may reduce a handover threshold for the UE in response to receiving assistance information from the UE comprising a low power preference indication. As another example the handover component may determine that no handover procedure will be performed for the UE in response to receiving assistance information from the UE comprising a low power preference indication.

The inactivity component tracks activity of a UE . In one embodiment the inactivity component starts an inactivity timer for the UE each time communication with the UE stops. For example the inactivity timer may be started after the eNodeB receives the end of a message or communication stream from the UE . The inactivity component may determine that the UE can be placed into a low power mode if the inactivity timer expires.

In one embodiment the inactivity component determines whether an inactivity timer is about to expire in response to the eNodeB receiving assistance information. If the timer is about to expire the inactivity component may indicate to the connection configuration component that the inactivity timer is about to expire. In one embodiment the connection configuration component then determines that a connection with the UE can be released. Similarly the connection configuration component may also wait to see if the signal strength is low as determined by the signal strength component before releasing the UE . Releasing the UE when the signal strength is low and the inactivity timer is about to expire may reduce processing overhead for handing over the UE when the UE will just go into a low power mode or idle mode soon anyway.

The load component determines a load of the eNodeB . For example the load component may determine at what percent of capacity the eNodeB is operating. For example if the eNodeB is near full capacity the load component may determine that the eNodeB is overloaded. Similarly if the eNodeB is not able to respond to requests within a defined time period the load component may determine that the eNodeB is overloaded. One of skill in the art will recognize other methods and systems for determining a load of an eNodeB .

In one embodiment the load component indicates a load status of the eNodeB to the connection configuration component . For example the load component may determine that the eNodeB is overloaded. The connection configuration component may then use the load status of the eNodeB in conjunction with the assistance information or other information to determine how to handle a connection with a UE . In one embodiment the connection configuration component releases or modifies a connection with a UE in response to receiving assistance information that includes a low power indication and the load component determining that the eNodeB is overloaded. For example release of a connection with a UE that indicates a preference for a low power state may be an effective way of prioritizing a load for the eNodeB . The low power indication may indicate that the UE will not need resources any time soon and releasing the UE may allow the eNodeB to better serve other UEs that are requesting resources.

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . The connection may be reconfigured using RRC messaging. The connection may be reconfigured to allow the UE to provide power preference indications to the eNodeB . For example the connection configuration component of the eNodeB may send an RRC Connection Reconfiguration message to configure the UE to send power preference indications. The connection component of the UE may receive the reconfiguration message reconfigure the UE based on the message and send an RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message to confirm that the connection and or the UE has been reconfigured.

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB including a power preference indicator PPI to indicate a power preference of the UE . The UE may send a UE assistance information message that includes a PPI for low power preference indication. The UE may send the UE assistance information in response to the power mode component determining that the UE prefers a low power state. For example the power mode component may determine that there will be no need for sending or receiving messages for a period of time and may determine that a low power state could be entered to reduce power consumption.

A UE that is configured to provide power preference indications and is in a connected state such as in an RRC CONNECTED state may initiate a procedure for providing assistance information. The procedure for providing assistance information may be performed in several cases including upon the UE being configured to provide power preference indications and upon a change of power preference. For example if the UE is configured to provide power preference indications the UE may initiate an assistance information procedure if either 1 the UE has not yet sent a UE assistance information message since it was configured to provide power preference indications by the eNodeB or 2 a current power preference for the UE is different from one indicated in the last transmission of a UE assistance information message and a message timer such as timer T340 discussed in 3GPP TS 36.331 is not running. The UE may then initiate transmission of the UE assistance information message with a corresponding power preference indication.

If the UE prefers a configuration primarily optimized for power savings the UE sets a power preference indication to indicate low power consumption e.g. set powerPrefIndication to lowPowerConsumption . If the UE does not prefer a configuration primarily optimized for power savings the UE may set a power preference to indicate normal power consumption e.g. set powerPrefIndication to normal . The UE may also restart a timer value to trigger initiation of the assistance information procedure when the timer expires. For example the UE may restart timer T340 to a value indicated by a powerPrefIndication value indicated by the UE or the eNodeB . The UE may then submit the assistance information as part of a UE assistance information message to lower layers for transmission.

The eNodeB may receive the assistance information and may process the information to reduce power consumption for the UE and or reduce load on a communication system . illustrate examples of enhanced assistance information and or usage of the assistance information by the eNodeB and or other portions of the communication system .

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . Reconfiguration of the connection may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to .

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB indicating a power preference of the UE . The UE may send assistance information in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to sending assistance information as shown in . However the UE may also send assistance information that includes a timer length to indicate how long the UE prefers to be in the low power state. For example the power mode component may determine that the UE should be in a low power state for a specific period of time. This timer length may be used by a network to derive a DRX timer in an idle mode or a connected mode or the timer length may indicate the DRX timer value itself. This period of time may be included in the assistance information sent to the eNodeB . Similarly the UE may also determine preferred paging DRX information for inclusion in the assistance information and send the preferred paging DRX to the eNodeB .

The eNodeB may determine whether an inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire. The inactivity timer may be the inactivity timer run by the inactivity component . In one embodiment the eNodeB determines whether the inactivity timer is about to expire in response to receiving the assistance information sent by the UE . The eNodeB may determine that the inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire based on the inactivity timer falling below or reaching a preconfigured threshold value.

The eNodeB may request an S1 and UE context release for the UE with the MME . The eNodeB may be configured to request an S1 and UE context release in response to receiving assistance information from UE and or in response to the eNodeB may be configured to request an S1 and UE context release in response to determining that the UE inactivity timer is about to expire. If the UE inactivity timer running at the eNodeB is about to expire the eNodeB may request S1 and UE context release. The request may include the assistance information. For example the low power indication and or timer length may be included in the request . The request may be sent to the MME using the S1 application protocol S1 AP . In one embodiment the eNodeB requests the context release by sending a UE Context Release Request message indicating a new cause of the release such as Cause UE low power consumption mode .

The MME and SGW perform a release access bearer procedure in response to receiving the context release request. The release access bearer procedure may be performed to release an S1 session with the UE . For example the MME and SGW may perform the S1 release procedure as disclosed in 3GPP TS 23.401 section 5.35. Performing of the release procedure may include the MME sending a release access bearer request. For example the release access bearer request may request release of all S1 U bearers for the UE. Performing the release procedure may also include the SGW sending a release access bearer response message confirming release of all eNodeB related information.

The MME commands release of S1 for the UE by instructing the eNodeB to release the UE . The MME may command release by providing a context release command message to the eNodeB in response to performance of the release access bearer procedure. The context release command message may indicate the cause of the release such as Cause UE low power consumption mode . The context release command may include paging discontinuous reception DRX information for configuring the eNodeB and or the UE for paging DRX. In one embodiment the paging DRX information includes a timer length based on the timer length that was provided by the UE and or may include paging DRX information provided by the UE . For example the timer length may be the same as the timer length provided by the UE in the assistance information. In one embodiment the MME provides long paging DRX information to place the UE on a long paging DRX cycle. The context paging DRX information may include information for both a long DRX cycle and the timer length based on the timer length provided by the UE . For example the timer length may indicate how long the UE will stay in a low power mode.

The eNodeB sends an RRC connection release message to the UE to release a session with the UE . The connection release message may configure the UE to release bearer or other information for a user data session on the UE . The UE may also change from a connected state to an idle or paging state. The connection release message may be sent including the paging DRX or long paging DRX information received from the MME . The paging DRX information may define a paging interval at which the UE checks for incoming control or user data. The paging DRX information may include the timer length as initially determined and sent by the UE in the assistance information. The UE may then power off a receiver or other component of the UE to enter a low power mode for the timer length.

The eNodeB may also send a UE context release complete message to the MME to indicate that the UE has been released. The sent message confirms the S1 release of the UE . This releases the signaling connection between the MME and the eNodeB for the released UE .

The MME may start a timer based on the timer length. The MME may defer paging until the timer expires and the UE will be available for paging. The timer may be started with a length defined by the UE or another length defined in the MME or kept in UE subscription data in an HSS and downloaded to the MME during attachment. In one embodiment the timer may be started after receipt of the context release request sent by the eNodeB .

The method and communication illustrated in the timeline of may be helpful for maximizing energy usage by the UE and or releasing a load on the eNodeB MME SGW and or other portions of a communication system . For example by allowing a UE to select a timer length the amount of time the UE can remain in a low power state can be increased. For example if the UE determines that it can be in a low power state longer than is generally defined by a communication system the UE can stay asleep longer. Furthermore even if the timer length is less the UE may be able to enter a low power mode and still keep requirements for frequent paging that may not otherwise be possible. For example the UE may instead remain in an active mode or connected mode because requirements for frequent paging may not be met in an idle or disconnected mode. Furthermore release of the UE by the communication system may allow for a reduced load on the communication system and its components.

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . Reconfiguration of the connection may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to .

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB indicating a power preference of the UE . The UE may send assistance information in the manner indicated and discussed in relation to . For example the assistance information may or may not include a timer length.

The eNodeB may determine whether an inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire. The inactivity timer may be the inactivity timer run by the inactivity component . In one embodiment the eNodeB determines whether the inactivity timer is about to expire in response to receiving the assistance information sent by the UE . The eNodeB may determine that the inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire based on the inactivity timer falling below or reaching a preconfigured threshold value.

The eNodeB reconfigures a connection with the UE for long DRX. The eNodeB may reconfigure the connection in response to receiving assistance information from the UE and or based on a determination that the inactivity timer is about to expire. If UE inactivity timer running at eNodeB is about to expire the eNodeB reconfigure the connection with the UE for long DRX. The long DRX cycle may include a connected mode DRX cycle such that the UE need not be disconnected or placed in an idle or paging mode. The eNodeB may send an RRC Connection Reconfiguration message that includes long DRX information for connected mode. The long DRX information may include a DRX cycle longer than a short DRX cycle that is generally entered first and may thus lead to increased power savings. For example the reconfiguration method message may cause the UE to enter a low power mode according to the long DRX cycle without first entering a low power mode for a short DRX cycle. The UE may reconfigure its connection settings to follow the long DRX cycle.

According to one embodiment by placing the UE in a long DRX cycle in response to receiving the assistance information battery usage in the UE and load on the eNodeB may be reduced. For example the UE may not first be required to enter a short DRX cycle and then wait for a period of time before entering the long DRX cycle. Because the long DRX cycle increases the amount of time that the UE can spend in a lower power mode and decreases the frequency and or number of messages that must be handled or sent by the eNodeB significant energy and load savings can result.

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . Reconfiguration of the connection may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to .

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB to indicate a power preference of the UE . The UE may send assistance information in the manner indicated and discussed in relation to . For example the assistance information may or may not include a timer length.

The eNodeB notifies the MME of the low power request by the UE . The eNodeB may notify the MME of the low power preference of the UE by providing to the MME a UE Low Power Request message that includes a low power indicator. The UE Low Power Request message may be a message defined within the S1 application protocol and may be configured to include information from the assistance information provided by the UE .

The MME forwards the low power request to the SGW . The MME may forward the low power request within a Change Notification Request message to the SGW . The Change Notification Request may be a GPRS tunneling protocol message such as a GTP C message that has been enhanced to include the assistance information or new GTP C message.

In response to receiving the change notification request the SGW may begin to buffer downlink packets for the UE . In one embodiment if the assistance information sent by the UE includes a timer length the SGW buffers the downlink packets for the timer length and then send the downlink packets when the timer expires. This may allow the UE to enter a low power mode during the intervening time and then be available to receive the buffered packets. In another embodiment a previously agreed upon or configured timer length is used during which the SGW buffers the downlink packets and the UE enters a low power mode.

In one embodiment the UE is not required to enter an idle or paging mode but simply reduces battery usage due to the reduced number of received packets. Buffering downlink packets can prevent the UE from toggling between a connected mode and an idle mode while reducing power consumption in some embodiments. For example repeatedly performing connect and release procedures may increase a load on a communication system and or increase energy consumption at the UE .

An eNodeB receives assistance information from the UE . The assistance information includes a low power preference indication. The eNodeB may receive the assistance information in a manner indicated in and or . For example the eNodeB may receive the assistance information sent by the UE in response to the UE determining that it prefers a low power mode.

The eNodeB determines that an inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire. For example an inactivity timer started by the inactivity component of the eNodeB may be within a threshold time of expiring. In one embodiment the inactivity timer is used to determine when a UE should be placed in a low power mode or when a connection with the UE may be released. Thus if the inactivity timer is about to expire the UE may soon be released anyway.

The eNodeB determines that a signal strength of the UE is near a handover threshold. For example the handover component may define a timing for handing over or transferring a communication session for a UE based on the signal strength of the UE . In one embodiment if the signal strength of the UE is near the handover threshold a handover of the UE may be imminent. The eNodeB may determine that the signal strength is near the handover threshold by determining whether the signal strength is within a defined dB or RSSI range of the handover threshold.

The eNodeB in response to determining that the inactivity timer is about to expire and determining that the signal strength is near a handover threshold may reduce the handover threshold for the UE . For example the signal strength that triggers a handover procedure for the UE may be reduced such that handover or transfer of the UE is delayed.

The signal strength graph also illustrates an original handover threshold and a reduced handover threshold . The original handover threshold may be a threshold signal strength defined by the communication system for when a handover should occur. In one embodiment when the eNodeB reduces the handover threshold it is reduced from the original handover threshold to the reduced handover threshold . Reducing the handover threshold results in a delayed timing for handing over the UE . For example rather than being handed over where the original handover threshold intersects the first signal strength the UE will be handed over only if or until the UE remains in a connected or active mode until time where the reduced handover threshold intersects the first signal strength .

Because the inactivity timer is about to expire and the signal strength is near a handover threshold the eNodeB may be able to completely skip a handover procedure. This may reduce load on the eNodeB and reduce energy consumption at the UE because signaling for an unneeded handover procedure is avoided.

In one embodiment the method may also include checking for mobility of the UE and or for a load of the eNodeB .

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . Reconfiguration of the connection may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to .

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB indicating a power preference of the UE . The UE may send assistance information in the manner indicated and discussed in relation to . For example the assistance information may or may not include a timer length.

The eNodeB determines that the eNodeB is overloaded. For example the load component of the eNodeB may determine that the eNodeB is receiving more messages or requests than it is able to handle in a defined time period.

In response to determining that the eNodeB is overloaded the eNodeB releases a connection with the UE . For example the eNodeB may release the UE in a manner similar to that indicated in relation to .

Following a wait period the UE may attempt to establish a connection with the eNodeB or other eNodeB . The wait period may be a defined wait period provided to the UE by the eNodeB or communication system or may be a random amount of time until the UE is in need of access to the communication system . For example a user event or other event at the UE may initiate connection to the communication system .

According to one embodiment release of a UE that is requesting a low power mode when an eNodeB is overloaded may help the eNodeB provide better service for UEs that are requesting service. For example if a large number of UEs are on the same eNodeB the eNodeB may become overloaded and may not be able to support all calls or data requests by the UEs . By releasing UEs that are requesting a low power mode and probably do not have a very strong need for data or quick responses to user requests for voice or data connections the eNodeB can prioritize which UEs are truly in active use and thereby meet their needs first.

The eNodeB and the UE reconfigure a connection for the UE . Reconfiguration of the connection may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to .

The UE sends UE assistance information to the eNodeB indicating a power preference of the UE . The UE may send assistance information in the manner indicated and discussed in relation to . For example the assistance information may or may not include a timer length.

In response to receiving the assistance information the eNodeB determines that the UE will not be handed over to a next cell or eNodeB . For example the eNodeB may be able to save handover signaling by simply releasing a connection with the UE . The determination that the UE will not be handed over may be made based only on the assistance information or may also be made in relation to a mobility of the UE a load of the eNodeB or the like. For example the eNodeB may determine that no handover will be made based on the current eNodeB being overloaded and or based on a next or target eNodeB being overloaded.

The eNodeB releases a connection with the UE . For example the eNodeB may release the UE in a manner similar to that indicated in relation to the release of or similar to the method of .

Example 1 is an eNodeB that provides a connection reconfiguration message to a UE connected to the eNodeB. The connection reconfiguration message configures the UE to indicate a power preference. The eNodeB receives assistance information from the UE. The assistance information includes a low power preference indication and a timer length. The timer length indicates a preferred duration for a low power mode. The eNodeB provides in response to receiving the assistance information a connection release message to the UE. The connection release message includes the timer length.

In Example 2 the eNodeB of Example 1 can optionally provide a context release request comprising the low power preference indication and the timer length to an MME.

In Example 3 the eNodeB of Examples 1 2 can optionally provide the context release request to the MME to initiate performance of a release access bearer procedure by the MME and an SGW.

In Example 4 the eNodeB of Examples 1 3 can optionally provide the connection release message to the UE in response to receiving a context release command from the MME. The context release command may indicate performance of the release access bearer procedure. The context release command may include paging DRX information including a length of the paging DRX cycle and further include the timer length indicating how long the UE will stay in the low power mode.

In Example 5 the eNodeB of Examples 1 4 can optionally provide the context release request comprising the timer length to initiate a timer at the MME for the timer length to defer paging to the UE.

In Example 6 the eNodeB of Examples 1 5 can optionally determine that the eNodeB is overloaded. The connection release message may be provided to the UE in response to determining that the eNodeB is overloaded.

In Example 7 the eNodeB of Examples 1 6 can optionally provide the low power indication and the timer length to an SGW for buffering of downlink packets for the UE at the SGW for the timer length.

In Example 8 the eNodeB of Examples 1 7 can optionally receive buffered downlink packets for the UE after the time length and provide the buffered downlink packets to the UE.

Example 9 is a UE that includes a transceiver component an assistance information component and a power mode component. The transceiver component is configured to receive a first RRC connection reconfiguration message from a wireless base station. The first RRC connection reconfiguration message is to reconfigure the UE to indicate a power preference. The assistance information component is configured to provide assistance information to the wireless base station. The assistance information includes a low power preference indication. The power mode component is configured to control a power mode of the UE. The transceiver component is further configured to receive in response to providing the assistance information a second RRC connection reconfiguration message including DRX information indicating a long DRX cycle.

In Example 10 the power mode component of Example 9 is optionally configured to cause in response to receiving the second RRC connection reconfiguration message the UE to enter a low power mode according to the long DRX cycle without first entering a low power mode for a short DRX cycle.

In Example 11 the power mode component of Examples 9 10 can be optionally configured to cause the UE to enter a low power mode by powering off a portion of the transceiver component based on the long DRX cycle. The portion of the transceiver component that is powered of includes transceiver circuitry and processing circuitry that is not required for maintaining radio state information of the UE.

In Example 12 the power mode component of Examples 9 11 is further optionally configured to cause the UE to enter a low power mode based on the long DRX cycle. The power mode component cause the UE to maintain a connected mode with the wireless base station that includes an eNodeB. The power mode component may cause the UE to enter an idle mode.

In Example 13 the power mode component of Examples 9 12 is optionally further configured to determine that the UE should enter a low power mode. The UE may provide the assistance information comprising the low power preference indication in response to determining that the UE should enter the low power mode.

In Example 14 the power mode component of Examples 9 13 is further configured to determine a timer length for the UE to be in a low power mode. The assistance information component may be configured to provide the timer length with the assistance information.

Example 15 is an eNodeB that includes an assistance information component a signal strength component a handover component and a connection component. The assistance information component is configured to receive assistance information from user equipment UE connected to the eNodeB. The assistance information includes a low power preference indication. The signal strength component is configured to determine that a signal strength of the UE is near a handover threshold. The handover component is configured to modify a handover procedure for the UE based on the assistance information. The connection component is configured to provide in response to receiving the assistance information a connection release message to the UE.

In Example 16 the eNodeB of Example 15 optionally further includes an inactivity component configured to determine that an inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire. The handover component may modify the handover procedure by reducing the handover threshold for the UE.

In Example 17 the connection component of Example 15 16 can optionally provide the connection release information to the UE in response to expiration of the inactivity timer.

In Example 18 the eNodeB of Examples 15 17 can optionally include a load component configured to determine that the eNodeB is overloaded. The handover component may modify the handover procedure by not handing over the UE to a next eNodeB.

In Example 19 the signal strength component of Examples 15 18 is optionally configured to determine that the signal strength of the UE has reached the handover threshold. The connection component may provide the connection release message in response to the signal strength reaching the handover threshold.

In Example 20 the assistance information of Examples 15 19 optionally includes a timer length indicating a preferred time length for the UE to be in a low power mode. The connection component may provide the connection release message comprising paging DRX information based on the timer length.

Example 21 is a method for processing assistance information. The method includes providing a connection reconfiguration message to UE connected to an eNodeB. The connection reconfiguration message configures the UE to indicate a power preference. The method includes receiving assistance information from the UE. The assistance information includes a low power preference indication and a timer length. The timer length indicates a preferred duration for a low power mode. The method includes providing in response to receiving the assistance information a connection release message to the UE. The connection release message includes the timer length.

In Example 22 the method of Example 21 can optionally include providing a context release request comprising the low power preference indication and the timer length to an MME.

In Example 23 the method of Examples 21 22 can optionally include providing the context release request to the MME to initiate performance of a release access bearer procedure by the MME and an SGW.

In Example 24 the method of Examples 21 23 can optionally include providing the connection release message to the UE in response to receiving a context release command from the MME. The context release command may indicate performance of the release access bearer procedure. The context release command may include paging DRX information including a length of the paging DRX cycle and further include the timer length indicating how long the UE will stay in the low power mode.

In Example 25 the method of Examples 21 24 can optionally include providing the context release request including the timer length to initiate a timer at the MME for the timer length to defer paging to the UE.

In Example 26 the method of Examples 21 25 can optionally include determining that the eNodeB is overloaded. The connection release message may be provided to the UE in response to determining that the eNodeB is overloaded.

In Example 27 the method of Examples 21 26 can optionally include providing the low power indication and the timer length to an SGW for buffering of downlink packets for the UE at the SGW for the timer length.

In Example 28 the method of Examples 21 27 can optionally include receiving buffered downlink packets for the UE after the time length and provide the buffered downlink packets to the UE.

Example 29 is a method for indicating a power preference by a UE. The method includes receiving a first RRC connection reconfiguration message from a wireless base station. The first RRC connection reconfiguration message is to reconfigure the UE to indicate a power preference. The method includes providing assistance information to the wireless base station. The wireless information includes a low power preference indication. The method includes controlling a power mode of the UE. The method also includes receiving in response to providing the assistance information a second RRC connection reconfiguration message comprising DRX information indicating a long DRX cycle.

In Example 30 the method of Example 29 can optionally include causing in response to receiving the second RRC connection reconfiguration message the UE to enter a low power mode according to the long DRX cycle without first entering a low power mode for a short DRX cycle.

In Example 31 the method of Examples 29 30 can optionally include causing the UE to enter a low power mode by powering off a portion of the UE based on the long DRX cycle. The portion of the UE that is powered of includes transceiver circuitry and processing circuitry that is not required for maintaining radio state information of the UE.

In Example 32 the method of Examples 29 31 can optionally include causing the UE to enter a low power mode based on the long DRX cycle. The method may include causing the UE to maintain a connected mode with the wireless base station that includes an eNodeB. The method may include causing the UE to enter an idle mode.

In Example 33 the method of Examples 29 32 can optionally include determining that the UE should enter a low power mode. The UE may provide the assistance information comprising the low power preference indication in response to determining that the UE should enter the low power mode.

In Example 34 the method of Examples 29 33 can optionally include determining a timer length for the UE to be in a low power mode. The method may include providing the timer length with the assistance information.

Example 35 is a method for processing assistance information. The method includes receiving assistance information from UE connected to an eNodeB. The assistance information comprises a low power preference indication. The method includes determining that a signal strength of the UE is near a handover threshold. The method includes modifying a handover procedure for the UE based on the assistance information. The method includes providing in response to receiving the assistance information a connection release message to the UE.

In Example 36 the method of Example 35 optionally further includes determining that an inactivity timer for the UE is about to expire. Modifying may include modifying the handover procedure by reducing the handover threshold for the UE.

In Example 37 the method of Example 35 36 can optionally include providing the connection release information to the UE in response to expiration of the inactivity timer.

In Example 38 the method of Examples 35 37 can optionally include determining that the eNodeB is overloaded. Modifying may include modifying the handover procedure by not handing over the UE to a next eNodeB.

In Example 39 the method of Examples 35 38 can optionally include determining that the signal strength of the UE has reached the handover threshold. The method may include providing the connection release message in response to the signal strength reaching the handover threshold.

In Example 40 the assistance information of Examples 35 39 can optionally include a timer length indicating a preferred time length for the UE to be in a low power mode. The method may include providing the connection release message comprising paging DRX information based on the timer length.

In Example 42 a machine readable storage medium that includes machine readable instructions which when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus of any of Examples 1 41.

The techniques introduced above can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed or configured by software and or firmware or they can be implemented entirely by special purpose hardwired circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Software or firmware for implementing the techniques introduced herein may be stored on a machine readable storage medium and may be executed by one or more general purpose or special purpose programmable microprocessors. A machine readable medium as the term is used herein includes any mechanism that can store information in a form that is accessible by a machine a machine may be for example a computer a network device a cellular phone a PDA a manufacturing tool any device with one or more processors etc. . For example a machine accessible medium includes recordable non recordable media e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc. .

The term logic as used herein can include for example special purpose hardwired circuitry software and or firmware in conjunction with programmable circuitry or a combination thereof.

Although the present disclosure includes reference to specific example embodiments it will be recognized that the claims are not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The eNodeB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present disclosure may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

