---

title: System and method for supplying supplemental audio information for broadcast television programs
abstract: A method, computer readable medium and an apparatus for providing supplemental information related to a character featured on a broadcast television program, wherein the supplemental information is not broadcast along with the broadcast television program. A viewer can request specific supplemental information associated with the broadcast television program through a telephone or electronic network interface. In some embodiments, a service controller transmits the requested supplemental information such that an audio component of the supplemental information does not conflict with the audio component of the broadcast television program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756644&OS=08756644&RS=08756644
owner: Inventor Holdings, LLC
number: 08756644
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130206
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 272 190 filed Nov. 17 2008 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SUPPLYING SUPPLEMENTAL AUDIO INFORMATION FOR BROADCAST TELEVISION PROGRAMS which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 660 579 filed Sep. 12 2000 and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 454 776 on Nov. 18 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 821 436 entitled filed Mar. 21 1997 and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 209 028 B1 on Mar. 27 2001. The entire contents of each of the above applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

This invention relates to the field of broadcast television programs. More particularly the present invention provides a system and a method for television viewers to receive additional dialog and information via a selected interface related to characters on a specific broadcast television program.

Many television TV programs such as daytime soap operas and situation comedies are regularly watched by large audiences. Considering the growing number of TV sets in homes and the amount of time the average person spends watching TV the size of the audience is expected to increase over time. Correspondingly programs need to change and evolve to suit the ever more diverse tastes and interests of this expanding audience.

Television networks cable companies and independent TV program providers offer a myriad of TV program categories to capture the interest of viewers. These TV program categories include for example game shows talk shows situation comedies sporting events and soap operas. The ultimate goal is to provide interesting programming in order to capture a large segment of the viewing audience.

One popular category of TV programming is the daytime soap opera. This type of program revolves around the day to day lives of characters featured within the program. A plot or story line for a typical soap opera can span several episodes possibly an entire TV season. Each episode continues and develops the story line further and also develops the personalities of characters within the soap opera in an ever expanding and detailed manner.

Soap operas as well as other TV programs often develop a core group of passionate and dedicated viewers. Many viewers religiously watch every episode of their favorite TV programs loathing to miss even a single episode. With these viewers in mind several magazines on the market summarize daily or weekly episodes of television programs for people who may have missed a particular episode. There are also 900 telephone numbers available that offer similar services for a fee. These are just two areas in which peripheral services have developed in response to TV viewer s demand.

Moreover many TV viewers are extremely involved in their favorite TV program s story line and characters. The writers of TV programs must weave complex and interesting plots to maintain the viewer s loyalty and interest in the program. In most instances multi faceted and well developed characters are essential to the popularity and longevity of the program. Thus a typical script for a TV program may be written revised and edited numerous times to ensure that the result is interesting realistic believable or humorous.

Writers and producers spend a great deal of time developing characters and story lines for TV programs that ultimately are not used in the broadcast version of the TV program. Many times several scripts each with different plot twists and dialogue are developed for each TV program episode. This is occasionally done to preserve the secrecy of the final broadcast episode. However more often than not these changes and alternate scripts are never broadcasted. Thus the TV program producers and developers have no outlet to display this additional work product or by product as the case may be to the viewing public.

To a certain extent dedicated viewers of for example a soap opera live vicariously through the trials and tribulations of the TV characters. Any additional information on their favorite TV program is of interest to these viewers particularly the thoughts feelings and motivations that help define the TV characters.

However the typical TV program format makes it difficult to develop the thoughts and feelings for a TV character in great detail. The story line in a TV program must flow in a relatively quick and fluid manner. Unlike a novel where an author can between exchanges of dialogue devote extensive time to a given character s thoughts motivations and considerations the dialogue in TV programs must flow in a real time manner. In many situations this means that the writers must briefly summarize the thoughts or motivations of a character to keep the action flowing smoothly.

For example a soap opera might have the lead female character saying to the lead male character I am going to New York for lunch. Would you like to join me However her thoughts which are not being broadcasted may have her contemplating several devious things she is considering doing while in New York. These devious machinations may or may not occur depending upon the road the writers decide to follow for the story line.

A wealth of non broadcast material from story line changes and revisions could be created and used to supplement the audio tracks of TV programs. In the example discussed above a parallel audio track could be used to provide the additional thoughts of the lead female character to listeners who are simultaneously watching the TV broadcast.

In this regard modern stereo televisions can receive a secondary audio channel SAP . SAP technology has been used to provide descriptive video DVS which prints words on the television screen describing the action for the deaf. SAP has also been used to provide non English audio tracks for the TV programs or sporting events as well as a running commentary on TV movies. Some radio stations also broadcast audio tracks of live events e.g. sporting events or TV programs.

However these conventional simulcasting systems provide everyone using the system with the same audio track i.e. all viewers or listeners using these systems receive the same information. There is no way for a TV viewer to select individual information for example additional dialogue or thoughts of a particular character on a TV soap opera program. Moreover these systems are typically provided for a monthly or annual service fee or are provided at no cost because charging on a per TV program or per use basis is administratively difficult to process or not possible at all.

Other systems have been developed using community antenna television facilities CATV that allow subscribers to interactively request still television video frames with an accompanying audio message. However the TV video and accompanying audio message provided by these systems are not related to or synchronized to broadcast TV programs.

Phone services e.g. chat rooms and conference calling systems also exist that allow callers to dial in and listen to pre recorded audio messages or even listen to live events in progress. When a caller uses a dial in service to listen to a sporting event for example which is being simultaneously broadcasted on TV the radio audio track replaces the TV audio track. Thus these services are not synchronized to the TV program s audio track and are not designed to supplement the dialogue for the TV program.

Until now producers and broadcasters of TV programs have not been able to benefit from non broadcast material developed in relation to a TV program s story line or characters. Therefore synchronized audio tracks providing supplemental information for TV programs have not been created. This supplemental audio information would be of great interest to devoted fans of TV programs. In addition TV program broadcasters would have an alternative venue to bolster their TV program s characters thereby creating even greater interest in the particular TV program. Accordingly there is a need for a system that solves the above described problems. In particular a system that permits TV producers to provide additional valuable entertainment content to interested viewers.

The present invention solves the foregoing deficiencies by providing a system and a method for enabling television program viewers to receive supplemental information related to the television program.

The present invention advantageously enables television program viewers to select supplemental information related to particular characters in a television program through a telephone network interface. The selected supplemental information is then received by the viewer via an appropriate interface.

In particular one aspect of the present invention is directed to a method of supplying supplemental audio information that is synchronized to a broadcast television program so that the supplemental audio information is not in conflict with the audio component of the television program. This method includes providing selection and synchronization information through the broadcast television program and supplying the supplemental audio information in accordance therewith.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention writers for a TV program write supplemental dialogue for specific characters featured in the TV program. This supplemental dialogue consists of thoughts and comments not spoken aloud during the broadcast version of the TV program. For example these thoughts could include a hidden agenda a character s true feelings toward another character or other motivational factors driving a character s actions. While many devoted fans are interested in this type of information it is not easily conveyed to the viewing audience during the real time exchange of dialogue between characters on the TV program.

In the present invention audio recordings of these thoughts and comments are recorded using actors from the TV program. Of course voice doubles for the actors could also be used to make the audio recordings. The audio recordings are then edited and synchronized to the broadcast TV program. This process ensures that the additional thoughts and comments do not overlap the dialogue being spoken on the broadcast version audio track. These thoughts and comments are interspersed during the non speaking periods and other appropriate periods in the TV program so that they can be listened to simultaneously with the TV program without conflict.

In alternative embodiments the supplemental audio information can be used for other purposes. Several examples of other types of supplemental audio information for TV programs include adult content and themes not available on the regular program and multiple audio tracks of the same TV program which provide different sets of audio information each time the TV program is viewed and listened to . For example each viewing could offer the hidden thoughts of a different character or offer the viewer clues e.g. hints concerning alternative actions or events that may or may not occur . This may give the viewer the sense that he is somehow participating in the show. Supplemental audio information can also be used to provide additional content also referred to as hyper content for news type programs consisting of information not included in the broadcast e.g. an unabridged news report .

Traditional methods of broadcasting audio tracks such as SAP or radio are not suitable for the present application. The supplemental audio information must be made available only to customers requesting the service i.e. not broadcasted to the world . In addition there may be multiple versions of supplemental audio information for a particular TV program so that different customers can choose different supplemental audio information for the same TV program or watch the same TV program multiple times with different supplemental audio information each time. The supplemental audio information is synchronized with the audio track of the broadcast TV program enhancing the audio track rather than merely replacing it.

It is understood that the television program is one of many television programs that are broadcasted or transmitted to the public. The television program is received and displayed by conventional electronic equipment i.e. a television set not shown located in close proximity to the customer. The electronic display equipment may receive the television program through an antenna adapted to receive TV signals from a TV broadcast station from a satellite transponder a trunk cable from a CATV i.e. cable TV system or from any other suitable transmission means.

The service information is recorded on the same recording medium as the television program . For example a television program can be recorded and then the service information can be added during editing of the recorded television program. The service information can also be added at the time of broadcasting the television program .

It is also understood that the service information would be displayed even if the television program is recorded on a recorded medium and played back by the customer. While one customer is depicted in receiving the service information from the television program it is understood that the television program is broadcasted to any number of customers simultaneously.

As illustrated in FIG. . the customer by utilizing his telephone not shown communicates through a public switch telephone network PSTN and an interactive voice response unit IVRU to a service controller . The customer provides the selection information and synchronization information to the service controller . In response the service controller sends the supplemental audio information to the customer. The communication process via the telephone is discussed in detail below.

The CPU can also store information to and read information from a data storage device . The data storage device includes a network database a program database a character database a recording database and a billing database . These databases are described below. In addition the data storage device includes instructions which can be read by and executed by the CPU thereby enabling the CPU to process requests. While depicts separate databases a single database that incorporates the functions of the databases mentioned above can also be used. Additional databases may be added as needed to store a variety of other information that may be required for other purposes.

The data storage device also contains all the supplemental audio information recorded for each character the supplemental audio archive as described in more detail subsequently. Any of a wide variety of storage mediums are suitable for this purpose including for example audio cassettes digital audio tapes DAT laser discs and the like.

In an alternative embodiment the service controller may have an external interface for inputting supplemental information either live or pre recorded. This supplemental information may include for example live audio information or even video information coupled with an audio component. The live audio information can include for example alternative color commentary for sporting events e.g. Howard Stern a popular radio disc jockey providing supplemental color commentary on the Super Bowl or even specific athletes wearing microphones transmitters during the sporting contest e.g. a customer could dial 1 900 RANGERS to hear what their favorite hockey player is saying during the game .

The service controller also includes a communication port connected to an inter active voice response unit interface . The communication port enables the CPU to communicate with external devices. An IVRU as shown in is linked to the service controller via the IVRU interface . The IVRU is connected to the PSTN .

A plurality of telephone trunks not shown terminate at the IVRU to allow multiple callers i.e. customers to call the IVRU simultaneously. These telephone trunks may be analog or digital. The IVRU may also terminate North American standard digital signal one 1.544 Mb sec facilities in a manner similar to a private branch exchange PBX .

The IVRU allows the customer to communicate with the service controller using his or her telephone not shown . Voice command prompts guide the customer through various menu options allowing the customer to communicate and obtain information from the service controller .

It is understood that the records and information stored within all the databases may be updated as needed for example when a new character is added or a show is deleted from the databases. This is accomplished through a maintenance terminal operatively connected to the service controller .

As mentioned above the service information comprises three components a 900 telephone number selection information and synchronization information as described in detail below. In this embodiment one general 900 telephone number is provided for all the TV programs and the selection information is used to select particular supplemental information for the television program .

The synchronization information comprises a running time code that is updated on the TV screen at predetermined intervals. The preferred interval for updating the time code is every second. However other intervals can also be used for example the time code could be updated at specific milestones during the television program .

The time code ensures that the supplemental audio information is properly synchronized to the TV program . It also allows the supplemental audio information to be synchronized to a TV program that has been taped using a video cassette recorder VCR . Thus the customer may listen to supplemental audio information for a TV program while it is being broadcast or during a time shifted playback of a previously broadcast TV program.

An example of the time code in the preferred embodiment is the number 3600. In this case the time code indicates that the supplemental audio information should be offset by sixty minutes and zero seconds i.e. 3600 seconds which is exactly sixty minutes . Of course time codes greater than four digits can also be used if greater offsets are required.

As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art of telephony 900 telephone numbers provide services e.g. weather or sports information for which the caller is charged a pre determined rate per minute of use. In a similar manner the customer is charged for supplemental audio information provided.

In an alternative embodiment a unique 900 telephone number for each television program may be used instead of one general 900 telephone number. In such an embodiment the service controller determines which television program is being viewed by the customer based on the unique 900 telephone number dialed. In another embodiment 800 or 888 numbers may also be used. In such an embodiment the customer is prompted for a credit card number to pay for the supplemental audio information. Arrangements could also be made for pre paid minutes or service credits for particular customers.

By utilizing his or her telephone the customer communicates to the service controller by making a conventional telephone call. In step S the customer dials the 900 telephone number which is provided as part of the service information and is connected to the service controller . After the connection is made the customer is prompted via recorded voice messages to enter selection information and synchronization information related to the program being viewed. The telephone s keypad is used to enter this information. Alternatively voice recognition software within the IVRU could also be used to respond to voice commands from the customer.

After entering the synchronization information consisting of the time code the customer can optionally adjust the entered time code to ensure a close match with the running time code on the television program . In particular recorded messages transmitted from the IVRU can prompt the customer to adjust the time code using the telephone keypad. For example the pound key can be used to increment the value of the time code and the star key to decrement the value of the time code.

The customer then listens to a menu listing of characters. In step S the customer selects which character or group of characters in the television program for which he or she desires to receive supplemental audio information. Optionally the customer may be provided with additional menu choices such as the option of purchasing supplemental audio information for the entire television program or just a portion.

In step S the service controller plays the selected supplemental audio information synchronized to the action occurring on the television program . The supplemental audio information is synchronized so that it does not overlap with the spoken dialogue of the television program but supplements it during appropriate pauses or gaps. The customer receives the supplemental audio information via the telephone. Of course the customer can use a speaker phone or other speaker means to facilitate listening to the supplemental audio information.

In an alternative embodiment an interface via the Internet may also be provided allowing the customer to receive the supplemental audio information as well as make the request for the supplemental audio information. This Internet interface may also be used to receive supplemental video or text information from the service controller related to the particular television program selected by the customer. For example the text of a note handed between two characters on a TV program could be displayed on a commercially available web browser running on a computer connected to the Internet.

The service charges are billed to the customer s periodic telephone statement in step S. In the customer s periodic telephone statement an itemized listing of the charges appear for each supplemental audio information received. Of course the customer may be billed in other ways such as a separate statement for each use. Alternatively instead of a 900 telephone number an 800 or 888 telephone number may be provided through which the customer would also be prompted to enter a valid credit card number to be billed for the service.

After the incoming call has been received by the service controller in step S the CPU creates in step S a new record in the billing database shown in . Stored in the appropriate fields F and F respectively in in this new record are the caller s telephone number and the 900 telephone number dialed by the caller. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art of telephony the caller s telephone number is received from a telephone switch that established the connection through the PSTN .

In steps S S the CPU requests and receives the program identification code from the caller via the IVRU . The program identification code is processed as discussed in detail below by the service controller in step S. Also in step S the CPU accesses the program database and retrieves the list of participating characters for the particular television program . The list is then transmitted to the IVRU .

In step the caller i.e. the customer receives a recorded voice message from the IVRU comprising a menu of the participating characters to choose from. The caller s character selection is captured and transmitted to the CPU by the IVRU in step S. This information is processed by the service controller which then accesses the recording database

The recording database contains identifying information for all the supplemental audio information stored within the data storage device or accessible by the CPU . Based on the program identification code and character selection entered by the caller the CPU in step S obtains the appropriate supplemental audio information stored in the data storage device or accessible by the CPU .

Before the supplemental audio information is communicated the caller is prompted to confirm the transaction in step S. This includes confirming the supplemental audio information selected by the caller as well as billing information. If the caller decides not to complete the transaction he or she can simply hang up the telephone or start the process over to select different supplemental audio information.

After confirmation the CPU in step S communicates the supplemental audio information which is synchronized to the action occurring on the television program using the time code entered by the caller. This is accomplished as described above by starting the supplemental information using the time code as an offset. The CPU starts playback of the supplemental audio information accordingly based on the entered time code.

After the call termination i.e. the supplemental audio information is complete or the caller hangs up the telephone the CPU in step S updates the caller s record in the billing database . This record is used to track the cost of the call. The actual billing is done by the phone company who upon receipt of payment from the caller reimburses the service for the cost of the content. The service charge information is sent to the caller s telephone service provider and appears on the caller s monthly or periodic telephone statement. Of course alternate methods of payment may be used instead including credit card transactions debit cards or the caller could receive a separate bill for each use and pay by check or similar means. In these cases the billing database would be used to actually bill the customer and or interact with a credit card company.

The revenues generated by the service can be distributed in a variety of ways among the various persons and organizations providing the service i.e. the TV program provider the 900 service provider the actors etc. .

In step S the CPU separates the ten digit string as follows the first two digits the next four digits and the last four digits. As described below the separated strings represent program selection information and synchronization information related to the broadcast television program .

The first two digits represent the network identification number for the television program . In step S the CPU searches for a match in the network identification number field F of the network database . If no match is found in step S the CPU prompts the customer via the IVRU to reenter the program identification code in step S. Otherwise the CPU continues to step S.

The next four digits of the program identification code represent the program identification number. In step S the CPU searches for a match in the program identification number field F of the program database . If no match is found in step S the CPU prompts the customer via the IVRU to reenter the program identification code in step S. Otherwise the CPU continues to step S.

Alternatively the program identification code can have more than ten digits. This would allow additional information to be entered by the caller for example an episode number. The last four digits of the program identification code represent the synchronization information i.e the time code .

In step S the CPU stores the time code in a new record created for the customer in the recording database . Once the time code has been received and adjusted the CPU updates the time code at the predetermined intervals to ensure proper synchronization with the television program is maintained. Other information including the program identification number and the number dialed by the caller are also stored in the new record.

In an alternative embodiment the synchronization information may be derived by the service controller directly from the television program . The user for example could hold the telephone up to the speaker of the television so that the service controller could receive the synchronization information. The service controller would monitor the audio component of the television program and compare it with the corresponding audio track i.e. a duplicate stored at the service controller . Using the stored copy the service controller would synchronize the supplemental audio information without requiring the customer to enter any additional information.

The CPU accesses the participating characters field F in the program database and transmits the list to the caller via the IVRU in step S. The CPU receives from the caller via the IVRU the character selection number in step S. Once again the caller enters this information using his or her telephone keypad. The character selection number is a two digit alphanumeric string. The CPU receives it and enters it in the appropriate field in the recording database in step S.

In an alternative embodiment the supplemental audio information may be used to offer services such as foreign language translations of TV programs and descriptive audio for the blind.

While the present invention has been described above in terms of specific embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not intended to be confined or limited to the embodiments disclosed herein. On the contrary the present invention is intended to cover various methods structures and modifications thereof included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

