---

title: Signal modulation scheme determination through an at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant
abstract: Various embodiments associated with an at least fourth-order cumulant of a signal are described. The at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant of the signal can be taken and compared against an at least fourth-order noise-insensitive cumulant of known signals. A match can be found between the signal and a known signal and from this match, a demodulation scheme of the signal can be determined. The demodulation scheme can be used to demodulate the signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09042496&OS=09042496&RS=09042496
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09042496
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In a combat environment different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.

A system comprising a receiver and a determination component is described. The receiver is configured to receive a signal. The determination component configured to make a determination of a modulation scheme of the signal where the determination component uses an at least fourth order cumulant of the signal to make the determination and where the modulation scheme is employed in demodulation of the signal.

In addition a system comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium is described. The non transitory computer readable medium is communicatively coupled to the processor and stores computer executable components to facilitate operation of components. The components comprise a determination component that makes a determination of a modulation scheme of a signal through use of a fourth order cumulant or greater of the signal and a demodulation component that demodulates the signal through employment of the modulation scheme where the signal after demodulation is outputted.

Further a non transitory computer readable medium configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method is described. The method comprises acquiring a signal calculating a fourth order cumulant or higher of the signal matching the fourth order cumulant or higher of the signal with a fourth order cumulant or higher signal model selecting a demodulation scheme for the signal through use of the fourth order or higher cumulant signal model demodulating the signal in accordance with the demodulation scheme and causing output of the signal after demodulation.

A robust higher order statistical method for separating modulation schemes of the digital communication signals is discussed. This uses a new higher order statistical function which is less sensitive to additive Gaussian noise and therefore is more reliable in classifying signal patterns.

Blind communication signal separation is a critical technology for battlefield situation awareness based upon the tracking of RF transmissions from friendly hostile and non combatant emitters. With the emergence of the software defined cognitive radios blind signal separation becomes an attractive research topic in commercial applications. The concept is to exploit the radio transmission environment and choose a preferred e.g. best modulation scheme to improve e.g. maximize the channel capacity and lower e.g. minimize interference in real time. In cognitive radios the signal data can be transmitted frame by frame and the modulation scheme for an individual data frame is determined depending upon the channel quality to maintain the bit error rate BER below a certain threshold for high quality data transmission. Another concept is to survey the spectrum and detect the primary user for the cognitive radios in the Dynamic Spectrum Access applications.

The digital data in radio communication is coded as symbols described by the alphabet for i 1 2 . . . I and j 1 2 . . . J. is a complex value representing the ialphabet in the jconstellation and can be plotted in an in phase and quatrature IQ constellation. We denote . . . as the jconstellation vector. The pattern of the constellation defers depending on the signal modulation scheme. illustrate embodiments of three distinct modulation constellations at chart of square quadrature amplitude modulation QAM 16 at chart of circular QAM16 and at chart of V29 QAM 16. Signals can be separated by recognizing and classifying constellation patterns. However when the communication signal is transmitted through a channel the transmitted symbols can be noisy and the constellation may not be recognizable if the features used for classification are sensitive to the noise.

Cumulants are used to enhance the performance of the constellation pattern classification in a noisy environment since a high order e.g. the order equals or larger than 4 cumulant of the signal plus noise equals the cumulant of the signal plus the cumulant of the noise and the latter theoretically equals zero. The 2 Equations 1 and 2 and the 4 Equations 3 and 4 order cumulants of a unknown variable x x x . . . x are

Given the data sequence x k for k 1 2 . . . N at calculation of complex conjugates occurs. This includes calculation of the complex conjugate of x k denoted by x k . At 2and 4order moments are calculated such as through use of Equations 9 13

In the sequences of x k and x k are sent to parallel square and multiplication operations sent to the second parallel square operations and added up at the parallel accumulation block to yield the accumulated results M M M M and M. In the accumulated results are further sent to parallel square and multiplication operations sent to the parallel gain operations send to adders and send to a division operation to yield v x . If the phase can be estimated v x is used otherwise v x is used for constellation classification to eliminate the phase effect. The constellation pattern classification using v x is similar to the one using v x and is not repeated herein. DSP and FPGA technology can be used for hardware implementation.

With the chart 1000 symbols are sampled to a non integer over sampling rate of 4.6387 and filtered by a root square raised cosine filter with a roll off factor of 0.35. The solid curves are the mean values of 1000 v x s the dashed lines are the theoretical values of v x and the dotted curves are standard deviation upper and lower envelops of v x . From the top down the first set of curves upper four curves at SNR 10 dB are the trial results of the squared QAM16 the second set of curves middle four curves at SNR 10 dB are the trial results of the circular QAM16 and the third set of curves lower four curves at SNR 10 dB are the trial results of the V29 QAM16. Comparing the results with the ones in the chart the mean values of v x of square QAM16 and V29 QAM16 are shifted a little up and down respectively. Due to the effect of the roost square raised cosine filter those changes have little effect in the constellation pattern separation and the cumulants curves are still close to horizontal lines and clearly separated in the SNR domain above 4 dB. Therefore the patterns can be reliably classified. An additional simulation shows that if 4 000 symbols are used the curves will be separated even below 4 dB SNR.

The chart demonstrates values of x used without knowing the noise variance. The real part of x versus SNRs for the signals described by Equation 6 with three 16 alphabet modulation schemes is applied square QAM16 circular QAM16 and V29 QAM16. A frame of 1 000 symbols is used. With the chart the solid curves are the mean values of the 1000 x s the dashed lines are the theoretical values of x and the dotted curves are standard deviation upper and lower envelops of x . From the top down the first set of curves upper four curves at SNR 10 dB are the trial results of the squared QAM16 the second set of curves middle four curves at SNR 10 dB are the trial results of the circular QAM16 and the third set of curves lower four curves at SNR 10 dB are the results of the V29 QAM16. Notice that those curves are not horizontal at all which depart from the reference values the dashed lines with the decreasing SNR. This shows that x is sensitive to the values of SNRs and the estimation quality is poor.

Notice that the modulation parameters such as symbol rate type of pulse shape and pulse roll off factor are not known and the number of samples per symbol is not an integer in the simulation but they have little effect to the classification performance.

The v x or v x test applies to constellation based modulation schemes and is not limited to square QAM16 circular QAM16 and V29 QAM16. This new method can be used to separate linear digital modulation constellations included but not limited to M ary amplitude shift keying ASK M ary PSK and M ary QAM in various shapes such as square circular cross star etc.

The new 4order cumulant calculations can be easily extended to very high orders in the following general form 

In implementation of automatic modulation classification using the very high order cumulants higher than the 4order in software and hardware can be easily extended from the 4order one.

The new higher order signal constellation pattern separation method uses a high order cumulant as normalization factor so that the normalized high order cumulants are insensitive to the Gaussian noise. This can be extended to any order and any linear digital signal modulation schemes. Modulation constellation patterns can be classified using a vector of high order cumulants with being affected by the power of the additive Gaussian noise.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

Reference in the detailed description to a fourth order cumulant can include at least a fourth order cumulant a fourth order cumulant or greater as well as a fourth order cumulant or higher. For example discussion of a fourth order cumulant can be for a fourth order cumulant a fifth order cumulant an eighth order cumulant etc. In addition the fourth order cumulant can be noise insensitive e.g. noise is random and therefore when the fourth order cumulant is taken the noise is not represented .

In a combat environment different signals can be present from combatants opposed to one another. For example a first combatant can intercept a signal of a second combatant. While the first combatant may desire to demodulate and use the intercepted signal the first combatant may not know the demodulation scheme of the signal. Due to noise in the combat environment it may be difficult for the demodulation scheme to be determined without processing.

After reception e.g. interception of the signal a fourth order cumulant of a constellation of the signal can be determined. This fourth order cumulant causes noise characteristics to be lowered or removed. Further this fourth order cumulant of the constellation of the signal can be compared against a database of known signals. This comparison can compare the fourth order cumulant of the constellation of the signal against fourth order cumulants of constellations of known signals. The individual known signals can be associated with a particular modulation scheme. When a match is found e.g. an exact match a match within a certain error tolerance a match with the lowest error tolerance etc. the modulation scheme of the known signal can be selected for the signal. The signal can be demodulated according to the modulation scheme and once demodulated the signal can be put to further use.

The determination component is configured to make a determination of a modulation scheme of the signal. The determination component uses a fourth order cumulant of the signal to make the determination. The modulation scheme is employed in demodulation of the signal.

In one embodiment the determination component is configured to make the determination of the modulation scheme of the signal when a transmitter of the signal is not known e.g. is not of the same network as the receiver . If the transmitter and the receiver are of the same network then the modulation scheme may be accessible through another manner e.g. the receiver has saved in memory the modulation scheme of signals from the transmitter .

While aspects disclosed herein discuss a military context e.g. combatants it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects can be practiced in non military aspects. For example the transmitter can be a personal transmitter of a person in distress and the receiver can be a receiver of a rescue crew. The rescue crew may not know the modulation scheme of a rescue signal sent from the personal transmitter and aspects disclosed herein can be used to demodulate the rescue signal when the rescue crew uses the receiver .

In one embodiment the determination component can do a check if the modulation scheme is known. If known then accessing the modulation scheme can occur. If not known then the calculation component can calculate the fourth order cumulant of the constellation of the signal. In one embodiment the calculation component uses Equation 3 and or Equation 4 to calculate the fourth order cumulant. In one embodiment the calculation of the fourth order cumulant is calculation of the fourth order cumulant for a constellation of the signal. Once calculated the determination component can access the fourth order cumulant and use the fourth order cumulant to determine the modulation scheme.

In one embodiment the constellation component can perform analysis of the signal. A result of this analysis can be used in making the determination of the constellation of the signal. In one example the analysis can be used to determine if the constellation of the signal is square QAM16 as illustrated in chart of circular QAM16 as illustrated in chart of V29 QAM16 as illustrated in chart of or another constellation. With the constellation of the signal known the determination component can use the constellation of the signal to determine the modulation scheme for use in demodulation of the signal.

In one embodiment the match component is configured to make the match through match of a constellation pattern of the signal enhanced through the fourth order cumulant of the signal against a constellation of the known signal enhanced through a fourth order cumulant of the known signal. In one example constellation pattern of the signal enhanced by the fourth order cumulant is individually matched with constellation patters enhanced by the fourth order cumulant of known signals retained in a database e.g. local database or remote database . When a match is found the classification component assigns the constellation pattern of the signal a classification that corresponds to the match. For example if the signal and known signal have constellations of square QAM16 then the signal is given the classification of square QAM16. The database can have a particular modulation scheme that is associated with a signal with a constellation of square QAM16. With the match and classification complete the determination component can select the particular modulation scheme as the modulation scheme for the signal. In one embodiment the classification component is configured to select the classification for the signal based at least in part on the constellation of the known signal enhanced through the at least fourth order cumulant of the known signal. The match component and or the classification component can include the modulation pattern classifier of while the determination component can include the demodulator chooser of .

In one embodiment the signal with the residual carrier frequency and phase removed the amplitude of the signal after normalization and the compensation are employed in selection of the classification. For example the classification component can select the classification of the signal after the residual carrier frequency and phase are removed after the amplitude of the signal is normalized and after the compensation is applied to the signal.

In one embodiment the normalization component the compensation component and the carrier component function as a single component. The single component can include the RF pre processor of . The single component can perform processing upon the signal after the signal is received by the receiver .

In one embodiment the components comprise a constellation component that makes a determination on a constellation of the signal where the constellation of the signal is used to make the determination on the modulation scheme of the signal. In one embodiment the components comprise a calculation component that calculates the fourth order cumulant of the constellation of the signal. In one embodiment the components comprise a match component that makes a match of the fourth order cumulant of the constellation of the signal with a fourth order cumulant of a constellation of a known signal. In one embodiment the components comprise a classification component that selects a classification for the signal based at least in part on a result of the match where the classification is used to make the determination on the modulation scheme of the signal. In one embodiment the components comprise a confidence component that makes a determination on a confidence level of the modulation scheme where the demodulation component demodulates the signal in response to the confidence level meeting a threshold level. In one embodiment the determination component makes the determination of the modulation scheme of the signal when a transmitter of the signal is not known e.g. is not of the same network as a receiver of the signal . In one embodiment the components comprise a normalization component that normalizes an amplitude of the signal a compensation component that determines a compensation for a change effect set of the signal and a carrier component that estimates and remove a residual carrier frequency and phase of the signal. The signal with the residual carrier frequency and phase removed is employed in selection of the classification the amplitude after normalization is employed in selection of the classification and the compensation is employed in selection of the classification.

