---

title: Self-stabilizing linker conjugates
abstract: The present invention provides Ligand-Drug Conjugates, Drug-Linkers, Linkers, and Ligand-Linker Conjugates comprising a self-stabilizing linker assembly component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504756&OS=09504756&RS=09504756
owner: Seattle Genetics, Inc.
number: 09504756
owner_city: Bothell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 647 373 filed May 15 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 773 067 filed Mar. 5 2013 each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety and for all purposes.

The antibody drug conjugate ADC field has made significant advances with the FDA approval of Brentuximab Vedotin for the treatment of a select group of patients and with the advancement of many other ADCs in the clinic. The linker component of ADCs is one important feature in developing optimized therapeutic agents that are highly active at well tolerated doses. The electrophilic maleimide functional group has proven very useful in the preparation of ADCs due to its high degree of specificity for reacting with thiol groups and the very fast thiol addition kinetics under gentle conditions.

As has been noted by multiple investigators in the bioconjugate field the thio substituted product of the reaction between the electrophilic maleimide functional group and free thiol of antibody is subject to slow elimination thus reversing the above reaction 

When this reversible reaction occurs in a purified preparation of the ADC the reaction is largely undetectable because the maleimide and thiol which are regenerated through the elimination process simply react again thus reforming the intact conjugate. However when other thiols are present the net effect can be the transfer of the maleimide from the antibody of the ADC onto any other available thiol. This process has been documented to occur in plasma in which the maleimide of an ADC transfers to cysteine 34 of serum albumin Alley et al. 2008 19 759 765 . This process has also been reported when an ADC is incubated in the presence of excess cysteine or glutathione Jununtula et al. 2012 . The present invention provides inter alia bioconjugates that do not undergo this transfer reaction.

The invention provides inter alia Linkers Drug Linkers Ligand Drug Conjugates Ligand Linker Conjugates Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates and Functional Agent Linkers and methods of preparing and using them. The Ligand Drug Conjugates are stable in circulation yet capable of inflicting cell death once released in the vicinity or within tumor cells.

Unless stated otherwise the following terms and phrases as used herein are intended to have the following meanings. When trade names are used herein the trade name includes the product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product unless otherwise indicated by context.

The term electron withdrawing group refers to a functional group that draws electrons away from a reaction center. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to C O CN NO CX X COOR CONR COR COX SOR SOOR SONHR SONR POR P O CH NHR NO NR CR CR and C CR wherein X is F Br Cl or I and R is at each occurrence independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Calkyl. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups can also include aryl groups e.g. phenyl and certain heteroaryl groups e.g. pyridine . The term electron withdrawing groups includes aryls or heteroaryls further substituted with electron withdrawing groups. Preferred electron withdrawing groups are C O CN NO CX and X.

The term base refers to a functional group that deprotonates water to produce a hydroxide ion. Exemplary bases are amines and nitrogen containing heterocycles. Representative bases include N R R wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H or Calkyl preferably H or methyl 

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies monospecific antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and antibody fragments that exhibit the desired biological activity. An intact antibody has primarily two regions a variable region and a constant region. The variable region binds to and interacts with a target antigen. The variable region includes a complementary determining region CDR that recognizes and binds to a specific binding site on a particular antigen. The constant region may be recognized by and interact with the immune system see e.g. Janeway et al. 20015th Ed. Garland Publishing New York . An antibody can be of any type e.g. IgG IgE IgM IgD and IgA class e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 or subclass. The antibody can be derived from any suitable species. In some embodiments the antibody is of human or murine origin. An antibody can be for example human humanized or chimeric.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigenic site. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method.

An intact antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain C and heavy chain constant domains C1 C2 C3 and C4 as appropriate for the antibody class. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variant thereof.

An antibody fragment comprises a portion of an intact antibody comprising the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies triabodies tetrabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules scFv scFv Fc multispecific antibody fragments formed from antibody fragment s a fragment s produced by a Fab expression library or an epitope binding fragments of any of the above which immunospecifically bind to a target antigen e.g. a cancer cell antigen a viral antigen or a microbial antigen .

The terms specific binding and specifically binds mean that the antibody or antibody derivative will bind in a highly selective manner with its corresponding target antigen and not with the multitude of other antigens. Typically the antibody or antibody derivative binds with an affinity of at least about 1 10M and preferably 10M to le M 10M 10M or 10M and binds to the predetermined antigen with an affinity that is at least two fold greater than its affinity for binding to a non specific antigen e.g. BSA casein other than the predetermined antigen or a closely related antigen.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a drug effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may inhibit growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The term substantial or substantially refers to a majority i.e. 50 of a population of a mixture or a sample preferably more than 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 of a population.

The terms intracellularly cleaved and intracellular cleavage refer to a metabolic process or reaction inside a cell on a Ligand Drug conjugate e.g. an Antibody Drug Conjugate ADC or the like whereby the covalent attachment e.g. the linker between the Drug moiety D and the Ligand unit e.g. an antibody Ab is broken resulting in the free Drug or other metabolite of the conjugate dissociated from the antibody inside the cell. The cleaved moieties of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate are thus intracellular metabolites.

The term cytotoxic activity refers to a cell killing a cytostatic or an anti proliferative effect of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate compound or an intracellular metabolite of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate. Cytotoxic activity may be expressed as the ICvalue which is the concentration molar or mass per unit volume at which half the cells survive.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or inhibits the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P C and radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including synthetic analogs and derivatives thereof.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition or disorder in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells.

An autoimmune disease herein is a disease or disorder arising from and directed against an individual s own tissues or proteins.

Examples of a patient include but are not limited to a human rat mouse guinea pig monkey pig goat cow horse dog cat bird and fowl. In an exemplary embodiment the patient is a human.

The terms treat or treatment unless otherwise indicated by context refer to therapeutic treatment and prophylactic measures to prevent relapse wherein the object is to inhibit or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder.

In the context of cancer the term treating includes any or all of inhibiting growth of tumor cells cancer cells or of a tumor inhibiting replication of tumor cells or cancer cells lessening of overall tumor burden or decreasing the number of cancerous cells and ameliorating one or more symptoms associated with the disease.

In the context of an autoimmune disease the term treating includes any or all of inhibiting replication of cells associated with an autoimmune disease state including but not limited to cells that produce an autoimmune antibody lessening the autoimmune antibody burden and ameliorating one or more symptoms of an autoimmune disease.

As used herein the term Detection unit refers to refers to any molecule which produces or can be induced to produce a detectable signal. Detection units having reporter molecules that can be detected by imaging equipment include but are not limited to radioactive paramagnetic fluorescent or radioopaque chemical entities. In some embodiments the Detection unit will be a radioactive compound a chemiluminescent agent a fluorescent agent or a chromogen. In some embodiments the Detection unit will be a fluorescent molecule such as a fluorophore.

As used herein the term Stability unit refers to a compound that promotes the stability of the conjugate e.g. by increasing systemic retention of the Ligand when administered to a patient. A Stability unit can also increase the water solubility of the conjugate. An exemplary Stability unit is polyethylene glycol.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound e.g. a Drug Drug Linker or a Ligand Drug Conjugate . The compound can contain at least one amino group and accordingly acid addition salts can be formed with the amino group. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate trifluoroacetate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counterion. The counterion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counterion.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkyl by itself or as part of another term refers to a substituted or unsubstituted straight chain or branched saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon having the indicated number of carbon atoms e.g. C Calkyl or C C alkyl refer to an alkyl group having from 1 to 8 or 1 to 10 carbon atoms respectively . When the number of carbon atoms is not indicated the alkyl group has from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Representative straight chain C Calkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl and n octyl while branched C Calkyls include but are not limited to isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and 2 methylbutyl unsaturated C Calkyls include but are not limited to vinyl allyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl and 3 methyl 1 butynyl. In some embodiments an alkyl group is unsubstituted. An alkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups. In some aspects an alkyl group will be saturated.

Unless otherwise indicated alkylene by itself of as part of another term refers to a substituted or unsubstituted saturated branched or straight chain or cyclic hydrocarbon radical of the stated number of carbon atoms typically 1 10 carbon atoms and having two monovalent radical centers derived by the removal of two hydrogen atoms from the same or two different carbon atoms of a parent alkane. Typical alkylene radicals include but are not limited to methylene CH 1 2 ethyl CHCH 1 3 propyl CHCHCH 1 4 butyl CHCHCHCH and the like. In preferred aspects an alkylene is a branched or straight chain hydrocarbon i.e. it is not a cyclic hydrocarbon .

Unless otherwise indicated aryl by itself or as part of another term means a substituted or unsubstituted monovalent carbocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene substituted benzene naphthalene anthracene biphenyl and the like. An exemplary aryl group is a phenyl group as follows 

Unless otherwise indicated an arylene by itself or as part of another term is an aryl group as defined above which has two covalent bonds i.e. it is divalent and can be in the ortho meta or para configurations as shown in the following structures with phenyl as the exemplary group 

Unless otherwise indicated a C Cheterocycle by itself or as part of another term refers to a monovalent substituted or unsubstituted aromatic or non aromatic monocyclic or bicyclic ring system having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms also referred to as ring members and one to four heteroatom ring members independently selected from N O P or S and derived by removal of one hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a parent ring system. One or more N C or S atoms in the heterocycle can be oxidized. The ring that includes the heteroatom can be aromatic or nonaromatic. Unless otherwise noted the heterocycle is attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. Representative examples of a C Cheterocycle include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl azetidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl benzofuranyl benzothiophene indolyl benzopyrazolyl pyrrolyl thiophenyl thiophene furanyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl pyrimidinyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl isothiazolyl and isoxazolyl. A C Cheteroaryl is an aromatic C Cheterocycle.

Unless otherwise indicated C Cheterocyclo by itself or as part of another term refers to a C Cheterocycle group defined above wherein one of the heterocycle group s hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond i.e. it is divalent . A C Cheteroarylene by itself or as part of another term refers to a C Cheteroaryl group defined above wherein one of the heteroaryl group s hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond i.e. it is divalent .

Unless otherwise indicated a C Ccarbocycle by itself or as part of another term is a 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 membered monovalent substituted or unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated non aromatic monocyclic or bicyclic carbocyclic ring derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a parent ring system. Representative C Ccarbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl 1 3 cyclohexadienyl 1 4 cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl 1 3 cycloheptadienyl 1 3 5 cycloheptatrienyl cyclooctyl and cyclooctadienyl.

Unless otherwise indicated a C Ccarbocyclo by itself or as part of another term refers to a C Ccarbocycle group defined above wherein another of the carbocycle groups hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond i.e. it is divalent .

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroalkyl by itself or in combination with another term means unless otherwise stated a stable straight or branched chain hydrocarbon or combinations thereof fully saturated or containing from 1 to 3 degrees of unsaturation consisting of the stated number of carbon atoms and from one to ten preferably one to three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N Si and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. The heteroatom s O N and S may be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group or at the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. The heteroatom Si may be placed at any position of the heteroalkyl group including the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples include CH CH O CH CH CH NH CH CH CH N CH CH CH S CH CH CH CH S O CH NH CH CH NH C O CH CH CH CH S O CH CH CH O CH Si CH CH CH N O CH and CH CH N CH CH. Up to two heteroatoms may be consecutive such as for example CH NH OCHand CH O Si CH . In preferred embodiments a Cto Cheteroalkyl or heteroalkylene has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and 1 or 2 heteroatoms and a Cto Cheteroalkyl or heteroalkylene has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and 1 or 2 heteroatoms. In some aspects a heteroalkyl or heteroalkylene is saturated.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroalkylene by itself or as part of another substituent means a divalent group derived from heteroalkyl as discussed above as exemplified by CH CH S CH CH and CH S CH CH NH CH . For heteroalkylene groups heteroatoms can also occupy either or both of the chain termini. Still further for alkylene and heteroalkylene linking groups no orientation of the linking group is implied.

 Substituted alkyl and substituted aryl mean alkyl and aryl respectively in which one or more hydrogen atoms are each independently replaced with a substituent. Typical substituents include but are not limited to X R O OR SR S NR NR NR CX CN OCN SCN N C O NCS NO NO N N NRC O R C O R C O NR SO SOH S O R OS O OR S O NR S O R OP O OR P O OR PO POH AsOH C O R C O X C S R COR CO C S OR C O SR C S SR C O NR C S NR or C NR NR where each X is independently a halogen F Cl Br or I and each R is independently H C Calkyl C Caryl C Cheterocycle a protecting group or a prodrug moiety. Alkylene carbocycle carbocyclo arylene heteroalkyl heteroalkylene heterocycle heterocyclo heteroaryl and heteroarylene groups as described above may also be similarly substituted.

RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site RS that is capable of forming a bond with either the components of the Linker unit i.e. A W Y or the Drug unit D. RS is the reactive site within a Reactive Group RG . Reactive groups include sulfhydryl groups to form disulfide bonds or thioether bonds aldehyde ketone or hydrazine groups to form hydrazone bonds carboxylic or amino groups to form peptide bonds carboxylic or hydroxy groups to form ester bonds sulfonic acids to form sulfonamide bonds alcohols to form carbamate bonds and amines to form sulfonamide bonds or carbamate bonds. The following table is illustrative of Reactive Groups Reactive Sites and exemplary functional groups that can form after reaction of the reactive site. The table is not limiting. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the noted R and R portions in the table are effectively any organic moiety e.g. an alkyl group aryl group heteroaryl group or substituted alkyl aryl or heteroaryl group which is compatible with the bond formation provided in converting RG to one of the Exemplary Functional Groups. It will also be appreciated that as applied to the embodiments of the present invention R may represent one or more components of the self stabilizing linker or optional secondary linker as the case may be and R may represent one or more components of the optional secondary linker drug unit stabilizing unit or detection unit as the case may be.

It will be understood that once reacted the reactive site RS can form a new bond with components of the Linker unit or the Drug unit as the case may be. The reactive site RS once linked to the remainder of the Linker unit has typically lost its reactivity.

The term dilactam as used herein refers to a cyclic amide that forms from a macro cyclicization reaction with a thio substituted succinimide and base present on the self stabilizing linker assembly.

Hydrolysis of a maleimide or thio substituted succinimide represents a nucleophilic addition reaction in which water acting as the nucleophile attacks one of the electrophilic carbonyl carbon atoms of the maleimide ring or succinimide ring . The rate of this reaction is influenced by electrophilicity of the carbonyls which can vary with the substitution of electron donating or electron withdrawing groups present on the nitrogen of the imide group. The rate of the hydrolysis reaction is also influenced by the pH of an aqueous solvent which effectively increases the nucleophilicity of water with increasing pH. It has been discovered by the present inventors that the placement of a basic group on an N substituted maleimide also increases the rate of the hydrolysis. By careful engineering of an N substituent group on the maleimide the combination of its electron withdrawing influence on the maleimide ring thus increasing its electrophilicity and localized basicity increasing the effective nucleophilicity of nearby water can be used to tune the rate of hydrolysis of either the parent maleimide or its thio substituted succinimide derivative. The present invention provides inter alia N substituted maleimides with hydrolysis rates that fall within a useful range wherein their reaction with thiols occurs more quickly than their hydrolysis to the maleic acid derivative but which yield thio substituted succinimides with hydrolysis rates that are sufficiently rapid to achieve complete hydrolysis under gentle conditions that are very suitable for the manufacture of protein based bioconjugates.

The present invention is based in part on the discovery that a basic functional group proximal to a maleimide will catalyze the hydrolysis of a thio substituted succinimide which is formed upon conjugation of the maleimide and a protein thiol leading to a stable bioconjugate. By further combining a proximal basic group with an electron withdrawing group the rate of thio substituted succinimide ring hydrolysis can be tuned to a desirable level. Design parameters that affect the rate of hydrolysis include the pKa of the basic group the strength of the electron withdrawing group when present and the proximity of both groups to the maleimide carbonyl carbons. Design parameters that affect the percentage hydrolysis include the nature and proximity of the base to the maleimide carbonyl carbons.

Conceptually without limiting the invention a Linker unit comprising a self stabilizing linker assembly is referred to herein as a Self Stabilizing Linker or Self Stabilizing Linker unit. The Self Stabilizing Linker prior to conjugation with the Ligand unit comprises a maleimide group. The Self Stabilizing Linker is self stabilizing by virtue of the proximity of the maleimide group to a base within the Linker unit which catalyzes the hydrolysis of its own thio substituted succinimide after conjugation to the Ligand unit. This is represented schematically below 

It will be understood that the term Self Stabilizing Linker refers to the Linker unit both prior to and post stabilization.

In view of the above the present invention provides in one group of embodiments a Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Functional Agent selected from a Drug unit a Detection Unit or a Stabilizing Unit wherein the Ligand unit and each of the Functional Agent s are joined by a self stabilizing linker assembly comprising a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage and a base and an electron withdrawing group conjugated to the Ligand unit via the succinimide operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma relative to a ligand drug conjugate lacking the self stabilizing linker assembly i.e. by increasing the rate of succinimide ring hydrolysis . In some aspects the electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the electrophilicity of the succinimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is positioned to assist the hydrolysis of the succinimide ring e.g. by an intramolecular base catalysis mechanism . In some aspects in place of the succinimide ring is a dilactam formed when the base reacts with the succinimide ring. In another group of embodiments Functional Agent Linker units are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self stabilizing linker assembly. In another group of embodiments Ligand Linker conjugates are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self stabilizing linker assembly. In some embodiments the Linker portion further comprises an optional secondary linker assembly L .

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is a Ligand Drug Conjugate. Accordingly the present invention provides in one group of embodiments a Ligand Drug Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Drug unit wherein the Ligand unit and each of the Drug unit s are joined by a self stabilizing linker assembly comprising a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage and a base and an electron withdrawing group conjugated to the Ligand unit via the succinimide ring operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma relative to a ligand drug conjugate lacking the self stabilizing linker assembly i.e. by increasing the rate of succinimide ring hydrolysis . In some aspects the electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the electrophilicity of the succinimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is positioned to assist the hydrolysis of the succinimide ring e.g. by an intramolecular base catalysis mechanism . In some aspects in place of the succinimide ring is a dilactam formed when the base reacts with the succinimide ring. In another group of embodiments Drug Linker units are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self stabilizing linker assembly. In another group of embodiments Ligand Linker conjugates are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self stabilizing linker assembly. In some embodiments the Linker portion further comprises an optional secondary linker assembly L . In some embodiments the secondary linker assembly is a releasable linker assembly L which comprises a Cleavable unit and optionally one or more of a Stretcher and a Spacer unit. In some other embodiments the secondary linker assembly is a non releasable linker assembly L which comprises one or more of a Stretcher unit and a Spacer unit. In still other embodiments the invention provides methods of treating cancer immune disease infectious diseases and other diseases and disorders using a Ligand Drug Conjugate comprising a self stabilizing linker assembly.

The Linker unit of the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate or Ligand Drug Conjugate can further comprise in addition to a self stabilizing linker assembly an optional secondary linker assembly L which joins each Functional Agent or Drug unit to the self stabilizing linker assembly. The secondary linker assembly can be a releasable linker assembly or a non releasable linker assembly.

The term Linker unit can be used herein to refer to the linker portion of the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate or Ligand Drug Conjugate comprising the self stabilizing linker assembly and optional secondary linker assembly.

The Self Stabilizing Linkers are designed such that the rate of the post conjugation hydrolysis of the succinimide ring will be controllable and fall within a desired range. The limits of this range are typically dictated by issues which arise in the manufacture of ligand drug conjugates. On the one hand hydrolysis which is too slow would require unacceptable delays in the manufacturing process or aggressive conditions of pH and temperature which may induce damage to the protein backbone. Conversely a maleimide which is too reactive with water may be hydrolyzed to the corresponding maleic acid derivative before it can react with available protein thiols see undesired pathway 

In designing the Self Stabilizing Linkers of the present invention it will be understood that the pKa of the basic group the strength of the electron withdrawing group s and the proximity of both groups to the maleimide are inter related variables and will affect the hydrolysis rate of both the maleimide and corresponding thio substituted succinimide product. Accordingly positioning of the electron withdrawing group and base will be dependent upon the pKa of the base and the strength of the electron withdrawing group s . The skilled artisan will understand that for particularly strong electron withdrawing groups such as fluoro trifluoromethyl and nitro the group can be further from the maleimide. In some embodiments the hydrolysis reaction may compete with a macro cyclization reaction such that the resultant conjugates comprise a heterogenous mixture of hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide conjugates and cyclized thio substituted dilactam conjugates. In preferred embodiments a dilactam will not be formed.

In some aspects m q r is 0. In such aspects the Carylene or Cheteroarylene act as the electron withdrawing group. Exemplary aryls and heteroaryls include phenyl and pyridinyl.

In some aspects the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein a is 1 and r is zero.

In some aspects the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein Lis present and is a releasable linker assembly the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene a is 1 r is zero and the sum of m q is 1. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is straight chain or branched.

In some aspects the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein Lis present and is a releasable linker assembly the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene a is 1 and m and r are zero. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is straight chain or branched.

In some aspects the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein Lis present and is a releasable linker assembly the circle represents a scaffold that is C C Cor Cstraight or branched chain alkylene a is 1 r is zero and the sum of m q is 1.

In some aspects the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein Lis present and is a releasable linker assembly the circle represents a scaffold that is C C Cor Cstraight or branched chain alkylene a is 1 and m and r are zero.

In some aspects there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms no more than 4 atoms no more than 3 atoms or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam.

In each of these embodiments the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain can be straight or branched. In some aspects the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight chain. In other aspects it will be branched.

In each of these embodiments p can range from 1 to 20 preferably 1 to 12 even more 1 to 10 or 1 to 8.

In each of these embodiments Mis preferably a succinimide ring i.e. non hydrolyzed or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring also referred to herein as hydrolyzed succinimide .

In each of these embodiments D can be a Drug unit D and the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate can be a Ligand Drug conjugate.

In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary linker assembly or D for example in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and r is zero the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or D .

In some aspects m q r is 0. In such aspects the Carylene or Cheteroarylene act as the electron withdrawing group. Exemplary aryls and heteroaryls include phenyl and pyridinyl.

In some aspects the self stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or heteroalkylene r is zero and the sum of m q is 1. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is a straight chain or branched alkylene.

In some aspects the self stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or heteroalkylene and m and r are zero. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is a straight chain or branched alkylene.

In some aspects the self stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C C C or Cstraight or branched chain alkylene r is zero and the sum of m q is 1.

In some aspects the self stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C C C or Cstraight or branched chain alkylene and m and r are zero.

In some aspects there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms no more than 4 atoms no more than 3 atoms or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam.

In each of these embodiments the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight or branched chain. In some aspects the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight chain. In other aspects it will be a branched chain.

Returning to the embodiments of the invention wherein the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate has the Formula I 

In other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above the Basic unit BU comprises a primary a secondary amine or a tertiary amine. In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above the Basic unit is selected from the group consisting of C R R NH C R R NHR and C R R NR wherein x is an integer of from 0 4 or from 1 to 4 and each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl and Chaloalkyl or two Rgroups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group provided that if x is zero there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and each Rand Rare independently selected from H or Calkyl. In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above the Basic unit is selected from the group consisting of CH NH CH NHR and CH NR wherein x is an integer of from 0 to 6 preferably 0 to 4 or 1 to 4 provided that if x is zero there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl and Chaloalkyl or two Rgroups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group. In yet other selected embodiments x is an integer of from 1 to 4. In even other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above the Basic unit is NH CHNH CHCHNH CHCHCHNH or CHCHCHCHNHprovided that if the Basic unit is NH there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam.

In still other selected embodiments including the selected embodiments of 2 5 8 and 11 above and including the embodiments of the preceding paragraph HE comprises a carbonyl sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety.

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above e.g. each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above and including the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms no more than 4 atoms no more than 3 atoms or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam.

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above e.g. each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above and including the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs Mis a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide.

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above e.g. each of the selected embodiments of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12 above and including the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene . In some such aspects the alkylene is a straight or branched chain alkylene.

In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above HE comprises a carbonyl sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety and D is preferably a Drug unit D.

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms no more than 4 atoms no more than 3 atoms or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed or dilactam and D is preferably a Drug unit D .

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above Mis a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide and D is preferably a Drug unit D .

In yet other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene and D is preferably a Drug unit D . In some such aspects the alkylene is a straight chain or branched chain alkylene.

In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above HE is a carbonyl and D is preferably a Drug unit D .

In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above HE is a carbonyl and the circle represents a scaffold that is a straight chain Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene and D is preferably a Drug unit D .

In still other selected embodiments including each of the selected embodiments above HE is a carbonyl and the circle represents a scaffold that is a branched chain Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene and D is preferably a Drug unit D .

Having described a variety of Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates and Ligand Drug Conjugates provided by the present disclosure one of skill in the art will appreciate that component assemblies are also useful. Accordingly the present invention provides Fuctional Agent Linker Conjugates e.g. Drug Linker Conjugates Linkers and Ligand Linker assemblies.

In another embodiment the present invention provides Functional Agent Linker Conjugates e.g. Drug Linker Conjugates having the formula 

In some aspects wherein the Linker is attached to a Detection unit or a Stabilizing unit RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site that is capable of forming a bond with a Detection unit or a Stabilizing unit instead of a Drug unit.

In some aspects wherein the Ligand Linker Conjugate is attached to a Detection unit or a Stabilizing unit instead of a Drug unit RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site that is capable of forming a bond with a Detection unit or a Stabilizing unit instead of a Drug unit.

In some embodiments of the invention the self stabilizing linker assembly instead of being represented by the structure for Lis represented by Land has Formula III 

F is C E E wherein Eand Eare independently selected from hydrogen an electron withdrawing group or Eand Etogether are O 

RS is a reactive site for conjugation to a component of the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit 

It will be understood that for Formula III including IIIa IIIb IIIc and IIId and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof the electron withdrawing group will either be represented by F e.g. E Eor Eand E or by the reactive site RS. For example when d is zero or when Eand Eare hydrogen the reactive site will act as an electron withdrawing group. In some aspects when d is zero RS is C O . In some aspects n d and g are zero or m n d and g are zero and RS is C O .

Exemplary embodiments wherein the Ligand Drug Conjugates Drug Linkers Linkers or Ligand Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III or formulae IIIa IIIb IIIc or IIId as the case may be or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include those wherein m is zero m is zero and n is zero one two or three x is 1 x is zero and n is zero one two or three and m is zero n is zero and x is 1. Exemplary embodiments include those described herein wherein Rand Rare hydrogen. Exemplary embodiments include those wherein Eand Eare independently selected from H CN NO CXwherein X is halogen or Eand Etogether are O . The remainder of the substituents are as defined.

Exemplary embodiments wherein the Ligand Drug Conjugates Drug Linkers Linkers or Ligand Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III or formulae IIIa IIIb IIIc or IIId as the case may be or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include those wherein 

In each of the selected embodiments wherein the Ligand Drug Conjugates Drug Linkers Linkers or Ligand Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III or formulae IIIa IIIb IIIc or IIId as the case may be or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof the optional secondary linker assembly can be represented by the following formula 

Exemplary self stabilizing linker assemblies prior to conjugation with a Ligand and following conjugation and hydrolysis of the thio substituted succcinimide which is formed upon conjugation are as follows 

In some aspects of the present invention a self stabilizing linker assembly may undergo macro cyclization to form a dilactam as follows wherein R represents the remainder of the conjugate 

The optional secondary linker can comprise a variety of linking groups. In each of the embodiments provided herein including the specifically recited embodiments Lcan be present and have the formula 

The optional secondary linker assembly can be a releaseable linker assembly L. In those embodiments w is 1. In some other aspects the optional secondary linker assembly is a non releasable linker assembly. In those embodiments w is 0 and release of drug is via a total protein degradation pathway i.e. non cleavable pathway .

In some embodiments of the invention a Ligand Unit is present. The Ligand unit L is a targeting agent that specifically binds to a target moiety. The Ligand can specifically bind to a cell component a Cell Binding Agent or to other target molecules of interest. In some aspects the Ligand unit acts to deliver the Drug unit to the particular target cell population with which the Ligand unit interacts. Ligands include but are not limited to proteins polypeptides and peptides. Suitable Ligand units include for example antibodies e.g. full length antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof interferons lymphokines hormones growth factors and colony stimulating factors vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as but not limited to transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance. In some aspects the ligand is a non antibody protein targeting agent. In some aspects a Ligand Functional Agent is provided wherein D is a Detection Unit or Stabilizing unit and the Ligand unit is a protein e.g. a non antibody protein .

In some aspects a Ligand unit forms a bond with the maleimide of the Self Stabilizing Basic unit via a sulfhydryl group of the Ligand to form a thio substituted succinimide. The sulfhydryl group can be present on the Ligand in the Ligand s natural state for example a naturally occurring antibody or can be introduced into the Ligand via chemical modification.

It has been observed for bioconjugates that the site of drug conjugation can affect a number of parameters including ease of conjugation drug linker stability effects on biophysical properties of the resulting bioconjugates and in vitro cytotoxicity. With respect to drug linker stability the site of conjugation of a drug linker to a ligand can affect the ability of the conjugated drug linker to undergo an elimination reaction and for the drug linker to be transferred from the ligand of a bioconjugate to an alternative reactive thiol present in the milieu of the bioconjugate such as for example a reactive thiol in albumin free cysteine or glutathione when in plasma. Use of the Self Stabilizing Linkers of the present invention is particularly beneficial when conjugated to thiol residues at sites that are susceptible to the elimination reaction and subsequent transfer of drug linker if non self stabilizing alkyl maleimides are used e.g. maleimido caproyl drug linker . Such sites include for example the interchain disulfides as well as select cysteine engineered sites. Use of the Self Stabilizing Linkers of the present invention provides a stable linkage and ability to attach multiple drugs to each Ligand unit.

In one aspect the Ligand unit has one or more lysine residues that can be chemically modified to introduce one or more sulfhydryl groups. The reagents that can be used to modify lysines include but are not limited to N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SATA and 2 Iminothiolane hydrochloride Traut s Reagent .

In another embodiment the Ligand unit can have one or more carbohydrate groups that can be chemically modified to have one or more sulfhydryl groups.

In another embodiment the sulfhydryl groups is be generated by reduction of the interchain disulfides. Accordingly in some embodiments the Linker unit is conjugated to a cysteine residue of the reduced interchain disulfides.

In another embodiment the sulfhydryl group is chemically introduced into the antibody for example by introduction of a cysteine residue. Accordingly in some embodiments the Linker unit is conjugated to an introduced cysteine residue.

Useful non immunoreactive protein polypeptide or peptide Ligands include but are not limited to transferrin epidermal growth factors EGF bombesin gastrin gastrin releasing peptide platelet derived growth factor IL 2 IL 6 transforming growth factors TGF such as TGF and TGF vaccinia growth factor VGF insulin and insulin like growth factors I and II somatostatin lectins and apoprotein from low density lipoprotein.

Particularly preferred ligands are antibodies. Useful polyclonal antibodies are heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of immunized animals. Useful monoclonal antibodies are homogeneous populations of antibodies to a particular antigenic determinant e.g. a cancer cell antigen a viral antigen a microbial antigen a protein a peptide a carbohydrate a chemical nucleic acid or fragments thereof . A monoclonal antibody mAb to an antigen of interest can be prepared by using any technique known in the art which provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture.

Useful monoclonal antibodies include but are not limited to human monoclonal antibodies humanized monoclonal antibodies or chimeric human mouse or other species monoclonal antibodies. The antibodies include full length antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof. Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of numerous techniques known in the art e.g. Teng et al. 198380 7308 7312 Kozbor et al. 19834 72 79 and Olsson et al. 198292 3 16 .

The antibody can be a functionally active fragment derivative or analog of an antibody that immunospecifically binds to target cells e.g. cancer cell antigens viral antigens or microbial antigens or other antibodies bound to tumor cells or matrix. In this regard functionally active means that the fragment derivative or analog is able to elicit anti anti idiotype antibodies that recognize the same antigen that the antibody from which the fragment derivative or analog is derived. Specifically in an exemplary embodiment the antigenicity of the idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule can be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR sequences that are C terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen synthetic peptides containing the CDR sequences can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in the art e.g. the BIA core assay See e.g. Kabat et al. 1991 Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. Kabat E et al. 1980125 3 961 969 .

Other useful antibodies include fragments of antibodies such as but not limited to F ab fragments Fab fragments Fvs single chain antibodies diabodies tribodies tetrabodies scFv scFv FV or any other molecule with the same specificity as the antibody.

Additionally recombinant antibodies such as chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies comprising both human and non human portions which can be made using standard recombinant DNA techniques are useful antibodies. A chimeric antibody is a molecule in which different portions are derived from different animal species such as for example those having a variable region derived from a murine monoclonal and human immunoglobulin constant regions. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 816 567 and 4 816 397 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non human species having one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs from the non human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art for example using methods described in International Publication No. WO 87 02671 European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187 European Patent Publication No. 0 171 496 European Patent Publication No. 0 173 494 International Publication No. WO 86 01533 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 European Patent Publication No. 012 023 Berter et al. 1988240 1041 1043 Liu et al. 198784 3439 3443 Liu et al. 1987139 3521 3526 Sun et al. 198784 214 218 Nishimura et al. 198747 999 1005 Wood et al. 1985314 446 449 and Shaw et al. 198880 1553 1559 Morrison 1985229 1202 1207 Oi et al. 19864 214 U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Jones et al. 1986321 552 525 Verhoeyan et al. 1988239 1534 and Beidler et al. 1988141 4053 4060 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Completely human antibodies are particularly desirable and can be produced using transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chains genes but which can express human heavy and light chain genes.

Antibodies include analogs and derivatives that are either modified i.e. by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment permits the antibody to retain its antigen binding immunospecificity. For example but not by way of limitation derivatives and analogs of the antibodies include those that have been further modified e.g. by glycosylation acetylation pegylation phosphorylation amidation derivatization by known protecting blocking groups proteolytic cleavage linkage to a cellular antibody unit or other protein etc. Any of numerous chemical modifications can be carried out by known techniques including but not limited to specific chemical cleavage acetylation formylation metabolic synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin etc. Additionally the analog or derivative can contain one or more unnatural amino acids.

Antibodies can have modifications e.g. substitutions deletions or additions in amino acid residues that interact with Fc receptors. In particular antibodies can have modifications in amino acid residues identified as involved in the interaction between the anti Fc domain and the FcRn receptor see e.g. International Publication No. WO 97 34631 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it the literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

In a specific embodiment known antibodies for the treatment of cancer can be used. Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like it the literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

In another specific embodiment antibodies for the treatment of an autoimmune disease are used in accordance with the compositions and methods of the invention. Antibodies immunospecific for an antigen of a cell that is responsible for producing autoimmune antibodies can be obtained from any organization e.g. a university scientist or a company or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. In another embodiment useful antibodies are immunospecific for the treatment of autoimmune diseases include but are not limited to anti nuclear antibody anti ds DNA Anti ss DNA anti cardiolipin antibody IgM IgG anti phospholipid antibody IgM IgG anti SM antibody anti mitochondrial antibody thyroid antibody microsomal antibody thyroglobulin antibody anti SCL 70 antibody anti Jo antibody anti URNP antibody anti La SSB antibody anti SSA anti SSB antibody anti perital cells antibody anti histones antibody anti RNP antibody C ANCA antibody P ANCA antibody anti centromere antibody Anti Fibrillarin antibody and anti GBM antibody.

In certain embodiments useful antibodies can bind to a receptor or a receptor complex expressed on an activated lymphocyte. The receptor or receptor complex can comprise an immunoglobulin gene superfamily member a TNF receptor superfamily member an integrin a cytokine receptor a chemokine receptor a major histocompatibility protein a lectin or a complement control protein. Non limiting examples of suitable immunoglobulin superfamily members are CD2 CD3 CD4 CD8 CD19 CD20 CD22 CD28 CD30 CD70 CD79 CD90 CD152 CTLA 4 PD 1 and ICOS. Non limiting examples of suitable TNF receptor superfamily members are CD27 CD40 CD95 Fas CD134 OX40 CD137 4 1BB TNF R1 TNFR 2 RANK TACI BCMA osteoprotegerin Apo2 TRAIL R1 TRAIL R2 TRAIL R3 TRAIL R4 and APO 3. Non limiting examples of suitable integrins are CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 CD29 CD41 CD49a CD49b CD49c CD49d CD49e CD49f CD103 and CD104. Non limiting examples of suitable lectins are C type S type and I type lectin.

The drug unit D can be any cytotoxic cytostatic or immunosuppressive drug also referred to herein as a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunosuppressive agent. The Drug unit has an atom that can form a bond with the Linker Unit. In some embodiments the Drug unit D has a nitrogen atom that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments the Drug unit D has a carboxylic acid that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments the Drug unit D has a sulfhydryl group that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments the Drug unit D has a hydroxyl group or ketone that can form a bond with the Linker unit.

Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive agents include for example antitubulin agents auristatins DNA minor groove binders DNA replication inhibitors alkylating agents e.g. platinum complexes such as cis platin mono platinum bis platinum and tri nuclear platinum complexes and carboplatin anthracyclines antibiotics antifolates antimetabolites chemotherapy sensitizers duocarmycins etoposides fluorinated pyrimidines ionophores lexitropsins nitrosoureas platinols pre forming compounds purine antimetabolites puromycins radiation sensitizers steroids taxanes topoisomerase inhibitors vinca alkaloids or the like. Particularly examples of useful classes of cytotoxic agents include for example DNA minor groove binders DNA alkylating agents and tubulin inhibitors. Exemplary cytotoxic agents include for example auristatins camptothecins duocarmycins etoposides maytansines and maytansinoids e.g. DM1 and DM4 taxanes benzodiazepines e.g. pyrrolo 1 4 benzodiazepines PBDs indolinobenzodiazepines and oxazolidinobenzodiazepines and vinca alkaloids. Select benzodiazepine containing drugs are described in WO 2010 091150 WO 2012 112708 WO 2007 085930 and WO 2011 023883.

Individual cytotoxic or immunosuppressive agents include for example an androgen anthramycin AMC asparaginase 5 azacytidine azathioprine bleomycin busulfan buthionine sulfoximine calicheamicin camptothecin carboplatin carmustine BSNU CC 1065 chlorambucil cisplatin colchicine cyclophosphamide cytarabine cytidine arabinoside cytochalasin B dacarbazine dactinomycin formerly actinomycin daunorubicin decarbazine docetaxel doxorubicin etoposide an estrogen 5 fluordeoxyuridine 5 fluorouracil gemcitabine gramicidin D hydroxyurea idarubicin ifosfamide irinotecan lomustine CCNU maytansine mechlorethamine melphalan 6 mercaptopurine methotrexate mithramycin mitomycin C mitoxantrone nitroimidazole paclitaxel palytoxin plicamycin procarbizine rhizoxin streptozotocin tenoposide 6 thioguanine thioTEPA topotecan vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine VP 16 and VM 26.

In some typical embodiments suitable cytotoxic agents include for example DNA minor groove binders e.g. enediynes and lexitropsins a CBI compound see also U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 237 duocarmycins see U.S. Publication No. 20060024317 taxanes e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel puromycins vinca alkaloids CC 1065 SN 38 topotecan morpholino doxorubicin rhizoxin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin echinomycin combretastatin netropsin epothilone A and B estramustine cryptophysins cemadotin maytansinoids discodermolide eleutherobin and mitoxantrone.

In some embodiments the Drug unit is an anti tubulin agent. Examples of anti tubulin agents include but are not limited to taxanes e.g. Taxol paclitaxel Taxotere docetaxel T67 Tularik and vinca alkyloids e.g. vincristine vinblastine vindesine and vinorelbine . Other antitubulin agents include for example baccatin derivatives taxane analogs e.g. epothilone A and B nocodazole colchicine and colcimid estramustine cryptophysins cemadotin maytansinoids combretastatins discodermolide and eleutherobin.

In certain embodiments the cytotoxic agent is maytansine or a maytansinoid another group of anti tubulin agents. ImmunoGen Inc. see also Chari et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 127 131 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 163 888 .

In some embodiments the Drug unit is an auristatin. Auristatins include but are not limited to AE AFP AEB AEVB MMAF and MMAE. The synthesis and structure of auristatins are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0083263 2005 0238649 2005 0009751 2009 0111756 and 2011 0020343 International Patent Publication No. WO 04 010957 International Patent Publication No. WO 02 088172 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 659 241 and 8 343 928 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. Exemplary auristatins of the present invention bind tubulin and exert a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect on the desired cell line.

Exemplary auristatin Drug units have the following formula or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the wavy line indicates site of attachment to the Linker unit 

In some embodiments the Drug is a benzodiazepine including benzodiazepine containing drugs e.g. pyrrolo 1 4 benzodiazepines PBDs indolinobenzodiazepines and oxazolidinobenzodiazepines .

There are a number of different assays that can be used for determining whether a Ligand Drug Conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell line. In one example for determining whether a Ligand Drug Conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell line a thymidine incorporation assay is used. For example cells at a density of 5 000 cells well of a 96 well plated is cultured for a 72 hour period and exposed to 0.5 Ci of H thymidine during the final 8 hours of the 72 hour period and the incorporation of H thymidine into cells of the culture is measured in the presence and absence of Ligand Drug Conjugate. The Ligand Drug Conjugate has a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on the cell line if the cells of the culture have reduced H thymidine incorporation compared to cells of the same cell line cultured under the same conditions but not contacted with the Ligand Drug Conjugate.

In another example for determining whether a Ligand Drug Conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell line cell viability is measured by determining in a cell the uptake of a dye such as neutral red trypan blue or ALAMAR blue see e.g. Page et al. 19933 473 476 . In such an assay the cells are incubated in media containing the dye the cells are washed and the remaining dye reflecting cellular uptake of the dye is measured spectrophotometrically. The protein binding dye sulforhodamine B SRB can also be used to measure cytoxicity Skehan et al. 199082 1107 12 . Preferred Ligand Drug Conjugates include those with an ICvalue defined as the mAB concentration that gives 50 cell kill of less than 1000 ng ml preferably less than 500 ng ml more preferably less than 100 ng ml even most preferably less than 50 or even less than 10 ng ml on the cell line.

General procedures for linking a drug to linkers are known in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 163 888 7 659 241 7 498 298 U.S. Publication No. US20110256157 and International Application Nos. WO2011023883 and WO2005112919.

A non hydrolyzed succinimide also referred to herein as a succinimide ring conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage can be represented as follows wherein R represents the remainder of the Linker unit optionally conjugated to a Drug unit Detection unit or Stabilizing Unit 

A hydrolyzed succinimide also referred to herein as a hydrolyzed succinimide ring conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage can be represented as one of its two positional isomers as follows wherein R represents the remainder of the Linker unit optionally conjugated to a Drug unit Detection unit or Stabilizing Unit 

It will be understood for the non hydrolyzed succinimides and hydrolyzed succinimide representations there can be from 1 to 20 preferably 1 to 12 1 to 10 or 1 to 8 self stabilizing linkers conjugated to each Ligand. In some aspects there are from 1 to 20 preferably 1 to 12 1 to 10 or 1 to 8 drug linkers conjugated to each Ligand. Additionally for the conjugates described herein where a Ligand is not attached the succinimide is in an unsaturated form as a maleimide capable of reactive with a thiol or the Ligand .

In Formula I as well as the other formulae comprising a self stabilizing linker L the Basic unit BU can be essentially any base capable of facilitating a hydroxide ion or water attack to hydrolyze a nearby succinimide group. Accordingly BU represents any base but is typically a group comprising a tethered amine or nitrogen containing heterocycle the amine or nitrogen containing heterocycle acting as the base of the Basic unit. Representative amines include N R R wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H or Calkyl preferably H or methyl 

The hydrolysis enhancers HE of Formula I as well as the other formulae comprising a self stabilizing linker L can be essentially any electron withdrawing group capable of facilitating the hydrolysis of a nearby succinimide group. The hydrolysis is further facilitated by the Basic unit BU assisting a hydroxide ion or water attack to hydrolyze a nearby succinimide group or to render the nearby succinimide group more susceptible to hydrolysis. Accordingly HE can include a functional group that draws electrons away from a reaction center. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to C O O CN NO CX X COOR CONR COR COX SOR SOOR SONHR SONR POR P O CH NHR NO NR CR CR and C CR wherein X is F Br Cl or I and R is at each occurrence independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Calkyl. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups can also include aryl groups e.g. phenyl and certain heteroaryl groups e.g. pyridine . The term electron withdrawing groups includes aryls or heteroaryls further substituted with electron withdrawing groups.

In some embodiments HE comprises a carbonyl sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety. In some embodiments the hydrolysis enhancer HE 

In some embodiments wherein HE is directly linked to the secondary linker assembly or Drug unit or Stability unit or Detection unit HE will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit. In some aspects the electron withdrawing group will itself act as both the electron withdrawing group and a reactive site for attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit e.g. C O .

General methods of linking a Drug unit a Detection unit or a Stability unit to a Ligand unit are known in the art and linkers known in the art can be adapted for use with a self stabilizing linker assembly or modified to include a basic component and or electron withdrawing group using the teachings described herein. For example auristatin and maytansine ADCs are currently in clinical development for the treatment of cancer. Monomethyl auristatin E is conjugated through a protease cleavable peptide linker to an antibody monomethyl auristatin F is conjugated directly to an antibody through maleimidocaproic acid DM1 is conjugated through a disulfide or directly through the heterobifunctional SMCC linker and DM4 is conjugated through a disulfide linker. These linker systems can be adapted for use with a self stabilizing linker assembly or modified to include a basic component and or electron withdrawing group using the teachings described herein and provide release of drug by a cleavable or non cleavable system depending on the linker system used. Disulfide thioether peptide hydrazine ester or carbamate bonds are all examples of bonds that can be used to connect a Drug Unit to a Linker Unit. Stretcher units Cleavable units and Spacer units are described in more detail below.

Also contemplated within the present invention are branched linkers. Accordingly in one aspect the Stretcher unit is designed in such a way to allow branching within the Linker unit e.g. the attachment of more than one Drug unit or Detection unit or Stabilizing unit to each self stabilizing linker assembly as represented by the following formula 

Exemplary Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates or Ligand Drug Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers have the following formulae 

Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

Ligand Drug Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

Functional Agent Linker Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

Ligand Linker Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

In some other aspects exemplary Ligand Drug Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers have the following formulae 

The Stretcher unit A when present extends the framework of the Linker unit to provide more distance between the self stabilizing linker assembly and the Drug unit. A Stretcher unit is capable of linking the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Cleavable unit when the Cleavable unit is present the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Spacer unit when the Cleavable unit is absent but the Spacer unit is present and the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Drug unit when both the Cleavable unit and the Spacer unit are absent. As described a Stretcher unit is capable of attaching to more than one Cleavable unit Spacer unit and or Drug unit.

The Stretcher unit can also act to alter the physiochemical properties of the Drug Linker depending on components of the Stretcher unit. In some aspects the Stretcher unit will be added in order to increase the solubility of the Drug Linker and will comprise one or multiple solubility enhancing groups such as ionic groups or water soluble polymers. Water soluble typically includes any segment or polymer that is soluble in water at room temperature and includes poly ethylene glycol groups as well as other polymers such as polyethyleneimines.

A Stretcher unit can comprise one or multiple stretcher groups. Exemplary stretcher groups include for example NH C Calkylene NH C Calkylene NH C O C Calkylene NH C Calkylene C O NH C Calkylene NH CHCHO NH CHCHO CH NH CHCHNH CH NH CHCHNH CH NH C O CH NH C Ccarbocyclo NH arylene and NH C Cheterocyclo wherein each s is independently 1 10. A representative stretcher group having a carbonyl group for linkage to the remainder of the Linker unit or the Drug unit is as follow 

Non cleavable drug release systems are known in the art and can be adapted for use with the self stabilizing linker assemblies of the present invention as Stretcher units and or Spacer units. A non cleavable linker in capable of linking a Drug unit to a Ligand in a generally stable and covalent manner and is substantially resistant to acid induced cleavage light induced cleavage peptidase or esterase induced cleavage and disulfide bond cleavage. Drug is released from Ligand Drug Conjugates containing non cleavable linkers via alternative mechanisms such as proteolytic ligand degradation.

Cross linking reagents that form non cleavable linkers between maytansinoid drugs and ligands are well known in the art and can adapted for use herein. Exemplary cross linking reagents that form non cleavable linkers between the maytansinoid drugs and ligands comprise a maleimido or haloacetyl based moiety. They include N succinimidyl 4 maleimidomethyl cyclohexanecarboxylate SMCC N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxy 6 amidocaproate which is a long chain analog of SMCC LC SMCC maleimidoundecanoic acid N succinimidyl ester KMUA maleimidobutyric acid N succinimidyl ester GMBS c maleimidocaproic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester EMCS m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysuccinimide ester MBS N .alpha. maleimidoacetoxy succinimide ester AMAS succinhnidyl 6 maleimidopropionamido hexanoate SMPH N succinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate SMPB and N p maleimidophenyl isocyanate PMPI N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate STAB N succinimidyl iodoacetate SIA N succinimidyl bromoacetate SBA and N succinimidyl 3 bromoacetamido propionate SBAP . Additional Stretcher units for use in combination with the self stabilizing linker assembly of the present invention can be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 8 142 784 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The Cleavable unit W when present is capable of linking the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Spacer unit when the Spacer unit is present or the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Drug unit when the Spacer unit is absent. The linkage from the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Spacer unit or to the Drug unit can be directly from the self stabilizing linker assembly when the Stretcher unit is absent or via the Stretcher unit if the Stretcher unit is present.

In some embodiment the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the self stabilizing linker assembly on one end and to the Drug unit on the other end. In other embodiments the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the Stretcher unit on one end and to the Drug unit on the other end. In yet other embodiments the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the Stretcher unit on one end and to the Spacer unit on the other end. In even yet other embodiments the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the self stabilizing linker assembly on one end and to the Spacer unit on the other end. Any of specifically described self stabilizing linker assemblies described herein can be used in these embodiments.

The Cleavable unit is capable of forming a cleavable bond with a Drug unit or a Spacer unit. Reactive groups for forming cleavable bonds can include for example sulfhydryl groups to form disulfide bonds aldehyde ketone or hydrazine groups to form hydrazone bonds carboxylic or amino groups to form peptide bonds and carboxylic or hydroxy groups to form ester bonds.

The nature of the Cleavable unit can vary widely. For example cleavable linkers include disulfide containing linkers that are cleavable through disulfide exchange acid labile linkers that are cleavable at acidic pH and linkers that are cleavable by hydrolases peptidases esterases and glucoronidases.

In some aspects the structure and sequence of the Cleavable unit is such that the unit is cleaved by the action of enzymes present at the target site. In other aspects the Cleavable unit can be cleavable by other mechanisms. The Cleavable unit can comprise one or multiple cleavage sites.

In some embodiments the Cleavable unit will comprise one amino acid or one or more sequences of amino acids. The Cleavable unit can comprise for example a monopeptide a dipeptide tripeptide tetrapeptide pentapeptide hexapeptide heptapeptide octapeptide nonapeptide decapeptide undecapeptide or dodecapeptide unit.

Each amino acid can be natural or unnatural and or a D or L isomer provided of course that there is a cleavable bond. In some embodiments the Cleavable unit will comprise only natural amino acids. In some aspects the Cleavable unit will comprise 1 to 12 amino acids in contiguous sequence.

In some embodiments each amino acid is independently selected from the group consisting of alanine arginine aspartic acid asparagine histidine glycine glutamic acid glutamine phenylalanine lysine leucine serine tyrosine threonine isoleucine proline tryptophan valine cysteine methionine selenocysteine ornithine penicillamine alanine aminoalkanoic acid aminoalkynoic acid aminoalkanedioic acid aminobenzoic acid amino heterocyclo alkanoic acid heterocyclo carboxylic acid citrulline statine diaminoalkanoic acid and derivatives thereof. In some embodiments each amino acid is independently selected from the group consisting of alanine arginine aspartic acid asparagine histidine glycine glutamic acid glutamine phenylalanine lysine leucine serine tyrosine threonine isoleucine proline tryptophan valine cysteine methionine and selenocysteine. In some embodiments each amino acid is independently selected from the group consisting of alanine arginine aspartic acid asparagine histidine glycine glutamic acid glutamine phenylalanine lysine leucine serine tyrosine threonine isoleucine proline tryptophan and valine. In some embodiments each amino acid is selected from the proteinogenic or the non proteinogenic amino acids.

In another embodiment each amino acid is independently selected from the group consisting of the following L natural amino acids alanine arginine aspartic acid asparagine histidine glycine glutamic acid glutamine phenylalanine lysine leucine serine tyrosine threonine isoleucine tryptophan and valine.

In another embodiment each amino acid is independently selected from the group consisting of the following D isomers of these natural amino acids alanine arginine aspartic acid asparagine histidine glycine glutamic acid glutamine phenylalanine lysine leucine serine tyrosine threonine isoleucine tryptophan and valine.

In some embodiments the bond between the Cleavable unit and the Drug unit can be enzymatically cleaved by one or more enzymes including a tumor associated protease to liberate the Drug unit D which in one embodiment is protonated in vivo upon release to provide a Drug D .

Useful Cleavable units can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic cleavage by a particular enzyme for example a tumor associated protease. In one embodiment a linkage or bond between the Cleavable unit and the Drug unit or Spacer unit is that which cleavage is catalyzed by cathepsin B C and D or a plasmin protease.

In certain embodiments the Cleavable unit can comprise only natural amino acids. In other embodiments the Cleavable unit can comprise only non natural amino acids. In some embodiments the Cleavable unit can comprise a natural amino acid linked to a non natural amino acid. In some embodiments the Cleavable unit can comprise a natural amino acid linked to a D isomer of a natural amino acid.

In some embodiments the Cleavable unit will comprises a peptide and will comprise from 1 to 12 amino acids. In some such embodiments the peptide will be conjugated directly to the Drug unit and the Spacer unit will be absent. In some such embodiments the Stretcher unit and Spacer unit will be absent. In one aspect the peptide will be a dipeptide.

In some embodiments the Cleavable unit W will be represented by AA or AA AA wherein AA is at each occurrence independently selected from natural or non natural amino acids. In one aspect AA is at each occurrence independently selected from natural amino acids. One of skill in the art would appreciate that amino acids are typically linked to the Drug unit or Spacer unit through functional units present in the amino acid e.g. its carboxylic acid or amino termini.

In some such aspects the Ligand Drug Conjugates and Drug Linkers are represented by the following formulae or salts thereof wherein L L LA a AA Y y D and p are as defined in any of the embodiments described herein and f is an integer from 1 to 12 

It will be understood that although not reflected in the above formulae such formulaes can be modified as taught herein to include branched linkers i.e. multiple Drug units can be attached to each self stabilizing linker assembly.

In other aspects the Cleavable unit will comprise a glucoronide unit preferably 1 or 2 glucoronide units. In some such embodiments the Glucuronide unit comprises a sugar moiety Su linked via a glycoside bond O to a self immolative Spacer Su O Y 

The glycosidic bond O is typically a glucuronidase cleavage site such as a bond cleavable by human lysosomal glucuronidase.

In some embodiments the Cleavable unit itself will comprise a sulfur atom that is capable of forming a bond with a sulfur atom of a Spacer unit or Drug unit to form a disulfide or hindered disulfide. Cleavage occurs between the two sulfur atoms of the disulfide. In some such embodiments one of the sulfur atoms is cleaved from the Drug unit and provided there is no further release mechanism the other sulfur atom remains attached to the Drug unit. A Linker unit comprising a Cleavable unit having a sulfur atom is capable of forming a bond with a sulfur atom of a Spacer unit or Drug unit to form a disulfide or hindered disulfide

Exemplary linkers include for example the following Drug Linker wherein the wavy line indicates the site of attachment to the remainder of the Linker unit D is a maytansinoid drug and Rand Rare independently selected from H or methyl.

A variety of disulfide linkers are known in the art and can adapted for use in the present invention including for example those that can be formed using SATA N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SPDP N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDB N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio butyrate SMPT N succinimidyl oxycarbonyl alpha methyl alpha 2 pyridyl dithio toluene and SPP N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridyldithio pentanoate . See e.g. Thorpe et al. 198747 5924 5931 Wawrzynczak et al. In C. W. Vogel ed. Oxford U. Press 1987. See also U.S. Pat. No. 4 880 935. 

In some embodiments the cleavable linker is pH sensitive and will comprise for example an acid labile linker that is hydrolyzable in the lysosome e.g. a hydrazone semicarbazone thiosemicarbazone cis aconitic amide orthoester acetal or ketal group can be used. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 122 368 5 824 805 5 622 929 Dubowchik and Walker 199983 67 123 Neville et al. 1989264 14653 14661. Such linkers are relatively stable under neutral pH conditions such as those in the blood but are unstable at below pH 5.5 or 5.0 the approximate pH of the lysosome.

In some embodiments the Cleavable unit will be conjugated directly to the Drug unit and the Spacer unit will be absent and the Cleavable unit will be linked to the Drug unit via a cleavable peptide disulfide or hydrazone bond.

The Spacer unit Y when present links a Cleavable unit to the Drug unit or a Stretcher unit to the Drug unit or a self stabilizing linker assembly to a Drug unit. Like the Stretcher unit the Spacer unit when present can act to extend the framework of the Linker unit. The Spacer unit can comprise multiple self immolative or non self immolative groups. In some embodiments the Spacer unit comprises one or more self immolative groups. In this context the term self immolative group refers to a bifunctional chemical moiety that is capable of covalently linking together two spaced chemical moieties into a normally stable tripartite molecule. It will spontaneously separate from the second chemical moiety if its bond to the first moiety is cleaved. In other embodiments the Spacer unit is not self immolative. In these embodiments part or all of the Spacer unit remains attached to the Drug unit.

In some embodiments Y is a self immolative group and is linked to a Cleavable unit via the methylene carbon atom of the self immolative group and linked connected directly to the Drug unit via a carbonate carbamate or ether group.

In some embodiments Yy is a p aminobenzyl alcohol PAB unit whose phenylene portion is optionally substituted with C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen nitro or cyano.

Other examples of self immolative groups include but are not limited to aromatic compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2 aminoimidazol 5 methanol derivatives see e.g. Hay et al. 19999 2237 and ortho or para aminobenzylacetals. Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis such as substituted and unsubstituted 4 aminobutyric acid amides see e.g. Rodrigues et al. 19952 223 appropriately substituted bicyclo 2.2.1 and bicyclo 2.2.2 ring systems see e.g. Storm et al. 197294 5815 and 2 aminophenylpropionic acid amides see e.g. Amsberry et al. 199055 5867 . Elimination of amine containing drugs that are substituted at the position of glycine see e.g. Kingsbury et al. 198427 1447 are also examples of self immolative groups.

Other suitable Spacer units are disclosed in Published U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0238649 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Exemplary Stretcher units Cleavable units and Spacer units that can be used with the present compositions and methods are described in WO 2004010957 WO 2007 038658 WO 2005 112919 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 214 345 7 659 241 7 498 298 7 968 687 8 163 888 and U.S. Publication No. 2009 0111756 2009 0018086 2009 0274713 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

In embodiments wherein the Conjugates are conjugated to a Stabilizing unit or a Detection unit in lieu of a Drug unit the optional Secondary Linker Assembly will typically be absent. In embodiments where the Secondary Linker Assembly is present the Stretcher unit will generally be present but the Cleavable unit and the Spacer unit will be absent. The Stretcher unit will extend the framework of the Linker unit to provide more distance between the self stabilizing assembly and the Detection unit or Stability unit. In such aspects the Stretcher unit is capable of linking the self stabilizing linker assembly to the Detection unit or the Stabilizing unit.

The number of self stabilizing linkers per Ligand is represented by p. In embodiments wherein the linkers are not branched p represents the number of drug linker molecules or detection linker or stability linker molecules per Ligand e.g. antibody . Depending on the context p can represent the average number of self stabilizing linkers per Ligand or in embodiments where the linkers are not branched the average number of drug linker molecules or detection linker or stability linker molecules per Ligand e.g. antibody . The variable p ranges from 1 to 20 typically 1 to 12 1 to 10 and is preferably from 1 to 8. In some preferred embodiments when p represents the average number of self stabilizing linkers per antibody p ranges from about 2 to about 5. In some embodiments p is about 2 about 4 or about 8. In some preferred embodiments when p represents the average number of drug linker molecules per antibody p ranges from about 2 to about 5. In some embodiments p is about 2 about 4 or about 8. The number of D per self stabilizing linkers is represented by u. u ranges from 1 to 10.

The average number of Drugs units per Ligand unit in a preparation from a conjugation reaction may be characterized by conventional means such as mass spectroscopy ELISA assay HIC and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of Drug Linker Ligand conjugates in terms of p may also be determined. In some instances separation purification and characterization of homogeneous Ligand Drug Conjugates where p is a certain value from Ligand Drug Conjugate with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or electrophoresis.

The Self Stabilizing linker assembly links the Ligand unit to a Stretcher unit if the Stretcher unit is present links the Ligand unit to a Cleavable unit if the Stretcher unit is absent and a Cleavable unit is present links the Ligand unit to a Spacer unit if the Stretcher unit and the Cleavable unit are absent and the Spacer unit is present or links the Ligand Unit to D e.g. a Drug Unit if the Stretcher unit Cleavable unit and Spacer unit are absent. In some embodiments the Stretcher unit Cleavable unit and Spacer unit will be absent and the self stabilizing linker assembly will be conjugated directly to D e.g. a Drug Unit . In other embodiments one or more of the Stretcher unit Cleavable unit and Spacer unit will be present.

The rate at which the thio substituted succinimide of the Self Stabilizing Linker when part of a Ligand Drug Conjugate undergoes hydrolysis can be quantified using the t1 2 of hydrolysis. t1 2 of hydrolysis refers to the time taken for half of the compound of interest to hydrolyze i.e. undergo a ring opening under stated conditions e.g. pH 7.4 and 22 C. . In some embodiments of the present invention the t1 2 of hydrolysis of the thio substituted succinimide of the Self Stabilizing unit is less than 4 hours preferably less than 3 hours even more preferably less than 2 hours less than 1 hour less than 45 minutes less than 30 minutes less than 15 minutes using the following assay and stated conditions.

The hydrolysis reaction rates of maleimido drug linkers following conjugation to antibody cysteines can be determined by mass spectrometry as the hydrolyzed product has a molecular weight 18 daltons greater than the unhydrolyzed conjugate. Reduction of the interchain disulfides of a human IgG1 creates a single reduced cysteine on the light chain and three reduced cysteines on the heavy chain. The self stabilizing maleimide drug linker can then be conjugated to the reduced antibody at pH 7.4 and 22 C. and introduced to a high resolution electrospray mass spectrometer via a reversed phase HPLC column which separates the conjugated light and heavy chains. The masses of the conjugated light and heavy chains can thus be measured and the peak intensities determined by standard mass spectrometry data processing software e.g. MassLynx . By performing a series of injections over time the disappearance of the peak corresponding to the mass of the original unhydrolyzed conjugate and the appearance of the peak corresponding to the mass of the hydrolyzed conjugate can be monitored the intensities of the peaks determined and the percentage of hydrolyzed conjugate calculated at each timepoint. By plotting the hydrolysis percentage versus time a curve is generated e.g. using PRISM which can be fit to a standard equation for exponential phenomena which includes a parameter for t1 2.

In some aspects the Self Stabilizing Linker will be designed such that the maleimide component of the Self Stabilizing Linker does not substantially undergo hydrolysis prior to conjugation to the Ligand unit.

In some embodiments of the present invention the t1 2 of hydrolysis of the thio substituted succinimide of the Self Stabilizing Linker is from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 24 hours preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 12 hours more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 5 hours more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 2.5 hours even more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 1 hour even more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes even more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 20 minutes and even more preferably from about 10 minutes to about 15 minutes at a pH of about 7 to about 7.5 e.g. 7.4 and a temperature of about 22 C.

In some such embodiments wherein the t1 2 of hydrolysis is as stated above the hydrolysis goes to completion. Complete hydrolysis is considered to be achieved if 90 of the thio substituted succinimide hydrolyzes. Preferably 95 or greater 96 97 98 99 or 100 hydrolysis will be achieved. In some embodiments the hydrolysis reaction will compete with a dilactam formation and will not achieve completion. In some such embodiments at least 90 of the reaction product will be a combination of either a hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide Ligand Drug Conjugate or a thio substituted dilactam Ligand Drug Conjugate. Preferably at least 95 or greater 96 97 98 99 or 100 of the reaction product will be a combination of either a hydrolyzed thio substituted Ligand Drug Conjugate or a thio substituted dilactam Ligand Drug Conjugate. The percentage of hydrolysis can be calculated from the mass spectrometric data of the conjugate at the final timepoint by determining the intensity of the peak corresponding to the mass of the original unhydrolyzed conjugate and the intensity of the peak corresponding to the mass of the hydrolyzed conjugate and using the sum of the peak intensities to determine the percentage hydrolyzed and percentage unhydrolyzed.

In addition to characterizing the Ligand Drug Conjugate by its t1 2 of hydrolysis and or the efficiency of the hydrolysis reaction the stability of the Ligand Drug Conjugate can be characterized by the ability of the Ligand Drug Conjugate to undergo an elimination reaction and for the Drug Linker to be transferred from the Ligand unit to an alternative reactive thiol present in the milieu of the Ligand Drug Conjugate. In some embodiments the Drug Linker will exhibit no or substantially no disassociation from the Ligand under the following assay and stated conditions. The phrase substantially no disassociation from the Ligand is considered to be achieved if less than 40 preferably less than 20 even more preferably less than 10 or even more preferably less than 5 or less than 2 of the Drug Linker in a sample disassociates from the Ligand.

The elimination of a drug linker containing an enzyme cleavable linker from an antibody can be measured in ex vivo plasma by the following method. The conjugate is placed in sterile plasma and incubated at 37 C. At the begirming of the incubation and at varying timepoints from 1 hour to 1 week or longer an aliquot is removed at frozen at 80 C. Upon completion of the timepoints the samples are passed over a protein A affinity resin to capture the antibody the resin is washed with buffer and then drug is released from the captured antibody by treatment with an appropriate enzyme e.g. papain or proteinase K for peptide based cleavable linkers . The released drug can then be quantified by standard LC MS methodology and the quantity of drug measured at each timepoint divided by the quantity of drug measured for the pre incubation aliquot to determine the percentage of drug remaining conjugated to the antibody at each timepoint. The precision of this assay can be improved by including an internal standard antibody drug conjugate which is prepared using an isotopically labeled version of the same drug linker such that the drug which is released from it can be detected independently in the LC MS assay from the drug released from the test drug linker by virtue of its mass difference. This isotopically labeled internal standard antibody drug conjugate is added to each sample in equal amounts immediately prior to the protein A capture step. The quantitation of the drug released from the test ADC is then performed ratiometrically to the signal from the internal standard by conventional LC MS techniques.

An alternative method for evaluating the elimination of a maleimide drug linker from an antibody or other ligand is to incubate the conjugate in buffer e.g. phosphate buffered saline at slightly elevated pH e.g. pH 8.0 in the presence of a large excess of a small molecule thiol e.g. N acetyl cysteine NAC which will react with any maleimide that eliminates from the parent conjugate. LC MS assays can be performed to detect and quantify the drug linker conjugated to NAC or the parent ligand conjugate. In the latter case the ratio of the ligand conjugate to unconjugated ligand can be measured and will remain constant over time if the ligand conjugate is stable. Additional methods are provided in the examples section.

The Ligand Drug Conjugates are useful for inhibiting the multiplication of a tumor cell or cancer cell causing apoptosis in a tumor or cancer cell or for treating cancer in a patient. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of cancers. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a tumor cell or cancer cell. Without being bound by theory in one embodiment the Ligand unit of a Ligand Drug Conjugate binds to or associates with a cancer cell or a tumor cell associated antigen and the Ligand Drug Conjugate can be taken up internalized inside a tumor cell or cancer cell through receptor mediated endocytosis or other internalization mechanism. The antigen can be attached to a tumor cell or cancer cell or can be an extracellular matrix protein associated with the tumor cell or cancer cell. Once inside the cell via a cleavable or non cleavable mechanism depending upon the components of the linker system the drug is released within the cell. In an alternative embodiment the Drug or Drug unit is cleaved from the Ligand Drug Conjugate outside the tumor cell or cancer cell and the Drug or Drug unit subsequently penetrates the cell.

The Ligand Drug Conjugates can provide conjugation specific tumor or cancer drug targeting thus reducing general toxicity of the drug. In some embodiments the Linker units stabilize the Ligand Drug Conjugates in blood yet are capable of liberating drug once inside the cell.

In another embodiment the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell or cancer cell antigen which is on the surface of the tumor cell or cancer cell.

In another embodiment the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell or cancer cell antigen which is an extracellular matrix protein associated with the tumor cell or cancer cell.

The specificity of the Ligand unit for a particular tumor cell or cancer cell can be important for determining those tumors or cancers that are most effectively treated. For example a ligand drug conjugate having a BR96Ligand unit can be useful for treating antigen positive carcinomas including those of the lung breast colon ovaries and pancreas. Ligand Drug Conjugates having an anti CD30 or an anti CD70 binding Ligand unit can be useful for treating hematologic malignancies.

Other particular types of cancers that can be treated with a ligand drug conjugates include but are not limited to those disclosed in Table 1 

Cancers including but not limited to a tumor metastasis or other disease or disorder characterized by uncontrolled cell growth can be treated or inhibited by administration of a Ligand Drug Conjugate.

In other embodiments methods for treating cancer are provided including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Ligand Drug Conjugate and a chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which treatment of the cancer has not been found to be refractory. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which the treatment of cancer has been found to be refractory. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be administered to a patient that has also undergone surgery as treatment for the cancer.

In some embodiments the patient also receives an additional treatment such as radiation therapy. In a specific embodiment the Ligand Drug Conjugate is administered concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy. In another specific embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered prior or subsequent to administration of a ligand drug conjugate.

A chemotherapeutic agent can be administered over a series of sessions. Any one or a combination of the chemotherapeutic agents such a standard of care chemotherapeutic agent s can be administered.

Additionally methods of treatment of cancer with a Ligand Drug Conjugate are provided as an alternative to chemotherapy or radiation therapy where the chemotherapy or the radiation therapy has proven or can prove too toxic e.g. results in unacceptable or unbearable side effects for the subject being treated. The patient being treated can optionally be treated with another cancer treatment such as surgery radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on which treatment is found to be acceptable or bearable.

The Ligand Drug Conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell that produces an autoimmune disease or for treating an autoimmune disease. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of an autoimmune disease in a patient. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a target cell. Without being bound by theory in one embodiment the Ligand Drug Conjugate associates with an antigen on the surface of a target cell and the ligand drug conjugate is then taken up inside a target cell through receptor mediated endocytosis. Once inside the cell one or more specific peptide sequences within the Linker unit are cleaved resulting in release of the Drug or Drug unit. The released Drug or Drug unit is then free to migrate in the cytosol and induce cytotoxic or cytostatic activities. In an alternative embodiment the Drug is cleaved from the Ligand Drug Conjugate outside the target cell and the Drug or Drug unit subsequently penetrates the cell.

In one embodiment the Ligand unit binds to an autoimmune antigen. In one aspect the antigen is on the surface of a cell involved in an autoimmune condition.

In another embodiment the Ligand unit binds to an autoimmune antigen which is on the surface of a cell.

In one embodiment the Ligand unit binds to activated lymphocytes that are associated with the autoimmune disease state.

In a further embodiment the Ligand Drug Conjugate kills or inhibit the multiplication of cells that produce an autoimmune antibody associated with a particular autoimmune disease.

Particular types of autoimmune diseases that can be treated with the ligand drug conjugates include but are not limited to Th2 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. atopic dermatitis atopic asthma rhinoconjunctivitis allergic rhinitis Omenn s syndrome systemic sclerosis and graft versus host disease Th1 lymphocyte related disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sjorgren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Grave s disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis and tuberculosis activated B lymphocyte related disorders e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus Goodpasture s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis and type I diabetes and those disclosed in Table 2.

Methods for treating an autoimmune disease are also disclosed including administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Ligand Drug Conjugate and another therapeutic agent known for the treatment of an autoimmune disease.

The Ligand Drug Conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the multiplication of a cell that produces an infectious disease or for treating an infectious disease. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of an infectious disease in a patient. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a target cell. In one embodiment the Ligand unit binds to the infectious disease cell.

In one embodiment the conjugates kill or inhibit the multiplication of cells that produce a particular infectious disease.

Particular types of infectious diseases that can be treated with the Ligand Drug Conjugates include but are not limited to those disclosed in Table 3.

Methods for treating an infectious disease are disclosed including administering to a patient in need thereof a Ligand Drug Conjugate and another therapeutic agent that is an anti infectious disease agent.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising the Ligand Drug Conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be in any form that allows for the compound to be administered to a patient for treatment of a disorder associated with expression of the antigen to which the Ligand unit binds. For example the conjugates can be in the form of a liquid or solid. The preferred route of administration is parenteral. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In one aspect the compositions are administered parenterally. In one aspect the compounds are administered intravenously.

The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The Ligand Drug Conjugates can be in any form that allows for the compound to be administered to a patient for treatment of a disorder or for diagnostic purposes

Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated so as to allow a compound to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions can take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet can be a single dosage unit.

Materials used in preparing the pharmaceutical compositions can be non toxic in the amounts used. It will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that the optimal dosage of the active ingredient s in the pharmaceutical composition will depend on a variety of factors. Relevant factors include without limitation the type of animal e.g. human the particular form of the compound the manner of administration and the composition employed.

The composition can be for example in the form of a liquid. The liquid can be useful for delivery by injection. In a composition for administration by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent can also be included.

The liquid compositions whether they are solutions suspensions or other like form can also include one or more of the following sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or digylcerides which can serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin cyclodextrin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as amino acids acetates citrates or phosphates detergents such as nonionic surfactants polyols and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral composition can be enclosed in ampoule a disposable syringe or a multiple dose vial made of glass plastic or other material. Physiological saline is an exemplary adjuvant. An injectable composition is preferably sterile.

The amount of the conjugate that is effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro or in vivo assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the compositions will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness of the disease or disorder and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances.

The compositions comprise an effective amount of a compound such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least about 0.01 of a compound by weight of the composition.

For intravenous administration the composition can comprise from about 0.01 to about 100 mg of a Ligand Drug Conjugate per kg of the animal s body weight. In one aspect the composition can include from about 1 to about 100 mg of a Ligand Drug Conjugate per kg of the animal s body weight. In another aspect the amount administered will be in the range from about 0.1 to about 25 mg kg of body weight of a compound.

Generally the dosage of a compound administered to a patient is typically about 0.01 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.01 mg kg to about 15 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 15 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 20 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg kg to about 5 mg kg or about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the subject s body weight. In some embodiments the dosage administered is between about 0.1 to 4 mg kg even more preferably 0.1 to 3.2 mg kg or even more preferably 0.1 to 2.7 mg kg of the subject s body weight over a treatment cycle.

The Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates e.g. Ligand Drug Conjugates can be administered by any convenient route for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa . Administration can be systemic or local. Various delivery systems are known e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules capsules and can be used to administer a compound. In certain embodiments more than one compounds or composition is administered to a patient.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a compound is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil. The carriers can be saline gum acacia gelatin starch paste talc keratin colloidal silica urea. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents can be used. In one embodiment when administered to a patient the compound or compositions and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is an exemplary carrier when the compounds are administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol. The present compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents.

In an embodiment the conjugates are formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to animals particularly human beings. Typically the carriers or vehicles for intravenous administration are sterile isotonic aqueous buffer solutions. Where necessary the compositions can also include a solubilizing agent. Compositions for intravenous administration can optionally comprise a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where a conjugate is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed for example with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the conjugate is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.

The pharmaceutical compositions are generally formulated as sterile substantially isotonic and in full compliance with all Good Manufacturing Practice GMP regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise the Ligand Drug Conjugates of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some preferred embodiments all or substantially all or more than 50 of the Ligand Drug Conjugates present in the pharmaceutical composition comprises a hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide. In some preferred embodiments more than 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 of the Ligand Drug Conjugates present in the pharmaceutical composition comprises a hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods of preparing Ligand Drug Conjugates or Ligand Functional Agent Conjugates comprising a Self Stabilizing Linker.

In some embodiments methods of the present invention comprise the steps of providing a Drug Linker or Linker unit as described herein conjugating said Drug Linker or Linker unit to a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand unit to form a conjugate allowing the resultant conjugate to undergo a hydrolysis reaction to form a Ligand Drug conjugate comprising a thio substituted hydrolyzed succinimide.

The rate of the thio substituted succinimide hydrolysis can be manipulated by adjusting the reaction conditions following conjugation of the Drug Linker to the Ligand e.g. by adjusting the pH or temperature. In some embodiments of the present invention all substantially all or at least 50 60 70 80 85 90 or even 95 of the thio substituted succinimide is hydrolyzed without manipulation of the reaction conditions i.e. the hydrolysis reaction occurs under the same reaction conditions as the conjugation reaction. In some embodiments all substantially all or at least 50 60 70 80 85 90 or even 95 of the thio substituted succinimide is hydrolyzed from 20 minutes to 4 hours following conjugation preferably from 20 minutes to 2 hours following conjugation. In exemplary embodiments the conjugation conditions are pH of about 7.4 and a temperature of about 22 C.

In some embodiments methods for preparing a Ligand Drug Conjugate comprises the steps of providing a Drug Linker or Linker unit comprising a Self Stabilizing Linker conjugating said Drug Linker or Linker unit to a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand to form a Ligand Drug Conjugate conjugate comprising a non hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide allowing the non hydrolyzed thio substituted succinimide to undergo a hydrolysis reaction wherein all substantially all or at least 50 60 70 80 or even 85 of the succinimide is hydrolyzed from 10 minutes to 4 hours following conjugation. In some embodiments all substantially all or at least 50 60 70 80 85 90 or even 95 of the succinimide is hydrolyzed by 10 minutes by 20 minutes 40 minutes 60 minutes 90 minutes or 120 minutes following conjugation. In some embodiments the hydrolysis reaction occurs under the same reaction conditions as the conjugation reaction. In exemplary embodiments the conjugation conditions are pH of about 7.4 and a temperature of about 22 C.

The present invention provides inter alia Self Stabilizing Linkers. Methods of preparing Self Stabilizing Linker units are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

Maleimide compounds are typically prepared from corresponding amines by reaction of the primary amine with maleic anhydride followed by cyclodehydration of the maleamic acid. The overall scheme for the preparation of maleimde compounds is shown in the scheme below.

For preparation of maleimides containing basic groups in the side chain of the starting amine such basic groups should be protected if necessary. The appropriate protecting groups should be stable under conditions of maleimide preparation yet should be removable later in the presence of maleimide. Suitable protecting groups consist but are not limited to acid labile protecting groups. Boc protecting group is one of the preferred protecting group.

The first step of maleimide preparation the formation of the maleamic acid is very facile and can be usually accomplished in good yield by slow addition of the amine to a suspension containing a stoichiometric excess of the maleic anhydride.

The second step cyclodehydration of the maleamic acid can be accomplished in a number of ways known to skilled in the art. For example the use of chemical dehydrating agents has been a well established method for accomplishing this step. Carbodiimides in combination with isomerizing alcohols for example DCC HOBt have been used to effect cyclodehydration of amic acids to maleimides.

Thermal cyclodehydration with use of azeotropic distillation in the presence of acid catalyst is another well known method to generate maleimides. The use of an azeotropic solvent permits the efficient removal of the water co product as it forms thereby driving reaction to maleimide. Suitable azeotropic solvents include cyclohexane benzene toluene ethylbensene mesitylene and the like. Toluene is considered to be the most desirable since it boils at 110 C. at atmospheric pressure. Boiling temperatures below 200 C. are preferable to minimize possible thermal isomerization of maleamic acid to the more thermodynamically stable trans fumaramic acid structure.

The use of polar aprotic co solvents can be beneficial for overall yield improvement as well as reducing time of cyclodehydration. Several polar aprotic solvents including dimethylformamide dimethylacetamide acetonitrile N methylpyrrolidone dimethylsulfoxide and sulfonate have been claimed to be useful. The most useful polar aprotic solvent is dimethylformamide.

Incorporation of certain amine salts instead of aprotic solvents can be further beneficial for maleimide formation according to U.S. Pat. No. 5 973 166.

One step microwave assisted maleimide synthesis has been also reported starting from maleic anhydride and an appropriate amine using no solvent H. N. Borah et al. J. Chem. Research S 1998 272 272 .

Example using water as a solvent for maleimide formation has been reported in ARKIVOC 2001 v 60 67 by V. Ondrus et al. Alternatively maleimide compounds can be generated from maleimide and appropriate alcohol using for example Mitsunobu reaction conditions as shown in the scheme below M.A. Walker 1994 v. 35 n 5 pp. 665 668 .

The self stabilizing linker assembly of the present invention are linked to the Stretcher unit Cleavable unit Spacer unit or Drug unit using the teachings described herein in combination with methods known in the art. The Linkers and Drug Linkers are conjugated to Ligand units using teachings described herein in combination with methods known in the art. For example for conjugation to interchain disulfides an antibody can be treated with a reducing agent such as dithiothreitol DTT to reduce some or all of the interchain disulfide cysteine residues to form highly nucleophilic cysteine thiol groups. The full reduced antibody or partially reduced antibody can be subsequently conjugated to the maleimide of the Linker Unit. In exemplary embodiments conjugation conditions are gentle ones pH of about 7 and a temperature of about 22 C.

The present invention provides intermediates for use in making Self Stabilizing Linkers. Intermediates include the following wherein T c Rand Rare as previously described.

In addition to designing self stabilizing linkers for increasing the hydrolysis rates of mono thio substituted succinimides self stabilizing linkers can also be used to increase the hydrolysis rate of mono thio substituted maleimides di thio substituted maleimides or di thio substituted succinimides.

In view of the above the present invention provides in one group of embodiments a Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Functional Agent selected from a Drug unit a Detection Unit or a Stabilizing Unit wherein the Ligand unit and each of the Functional Agent s are joined by a self stabilizing linker assembly comprising a succinimide ring a maleimide ring a hydrolyzed succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed maleimide ring wherein the succinimide ring maleimide ring hydrolyzed succinimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide ring is directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via one or two thioether linkages and a base and an electron withdrawing group operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma relative to a Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate lacking the self stabilizing linker assembly i.e. by increasing the rate of succinimide or maleimide ring hydrolysis . In some aspects the electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the electrophilicity of the succinimide or maleimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is positioned to assist the hydrolysis of the succinimide or maleimide ring e.g. by an intramolecular base catalysis mechanism .

L HE and BU L A W and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand Drug Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle L HE BU L A W and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates. L and Lcan be different Ligand units or the same Ligand unit. In embodiments wherein L and Lare the same Ligand unit the succinimide or maleimide can be conjugated to the Ligand unit on the same or different polypeptide chains of the Ligand unit.

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV or IVa or a salt thereof wherein r and m are zero and q is one.

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene r is zero and the sum of m q is 1. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is straight chain or branched.

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene preferably Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene and m and r are zero. In some such aspects the scaffold is Calkylene or Cheteroalkylene. In some such aspects the alkylene is straight chain or branched.

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C C Cor Cstraight or branched chain alkylene r is zero and the sum of m q is 1.

In some aspects the Ligand Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C C Cor Cstraight or branched chain alkylene and m and r are zero.

In some aspects there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the maleimide or succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed and there are no more than 5 atoms no more than 4 atoms no more than 3 atoms or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the maleimide or succinimide hydrolyzed or non hydrolyzed .

In some aspects Mis a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide and Lis present. In some aspects Mis a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide and Lis absent. In some aspects Mis a maleimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide and Lis present. In some aspects Mis a maleimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide and Lis absent. In each of these embodiments when L and Lare present L and Lcan be the same Ligand unit or different Ligand units. In some aspects wherein L and Lare present and are the same Ligand unit the maleimide or succinimide can be conjugated to the Ligand unit on the same or different polypeptide chains of the Ligand unit.

In each of these embodiments the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain can be straight or branched. In some aspects the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight chain. In other aspects it will be branched.

In each of these embodiments p can range from 1 to 20 preferably 1 to 12 even more 1 to 10 or 1 to 8.

In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary linker assembly or D for example in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and r is zero the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or D 

In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary linker assembly or D for example in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and r is zero the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to A or D .

The maleimide ring can be conjugated to the Ligand unit via one or two thioether linkages as illustrated below both in non hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed form and the succinimide ring can be conjugated to the Ligand unit via two thioether linkages as illustrated below in both non hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed form wherein the wavy line indicates the point of attachment to the remainder of the linker conjugate or linker functional agent conjugate 

In embodiments wherein the maleimide ring hydrolyzed maleimide succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide is conjugated to the Ligand via two thioether linkages p typically ranges from 1 to 10 or 1 to 8 or 1 to 4 and the maleimide or succinimide can be conjugated to the same or different polypeptide chains of the Ligand. In some aspects the Ligand is an antibody. In other aspects the Ligand is a non antibody protein.

Functional Agent Linker Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

HE and BU L A W and Y have the meanings provided for the Drug Linker Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle HE BU L A W and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.

Ligand Linker Conjugates having either branched or non branched linkers can be represented by the following formulas 

L HE and BU L A W and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand Drug Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle L HE BU L A W and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.

HE and BU L A W and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand Drug Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle HE BU L A W and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.

Methods of preparing mono or di thio substituted halomaleimides as well as di thiosubstituted succinimides are known in the art as are methods of conjugating them to ligands see for example Ryan et al. Chem. Coomun. 2011 47 5452 5454 and Smith et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010 132 6 1960 1965.

In a 50 ml round bottom flask H Lys boc OH 246 mg 1 mmol and maleic anhydride 98 mg 1 mmol were dissolved in 1 ml 4 vol. acetic acid and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to an oil on the rotovap and the product was precipitated by adding 10 ml dichloromethane. The precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration washed with dichloromethane and dried overnight in the vacuum oven. 270 mg of product was recovered as a white powder 85 yield 

Maleyl Lys boc OH 100 mg 0.29 mmol was suspended in Toluene 3 ml and triethylamine 224 uL over molecular sieves in a 50 ml round bottom flask equipped with a condenser. DMA 150 uL was added to aid solubility. The solution was heated to 125 C. and refluxed for 4 hours after which the reaction was shown to be complete by LCMS. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness on the rotovap redissolved in DMSO and purified by preparative HPLC. 56 mg of product was isolated as a white powder. 60 yield 

Maleyl dimethyllysine was prepared in the same manner as Maleyl lys boc OH with the exception that the product did not precipitate after addition of dichloromethane. Instead the oil was co evapaorated with 1 1 dichloromethane hexane until a white foam was obtained and dried under high vacuum overnight. 109 mg 99 

In a 10 ml round bottom flask Maleyl dimethyllysine 100 mg was dissolved in acetic acid 1 ml and refluxed for 4 hours. After 4 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness on the rotovap and dried to a white foam under high vacuum. NMR of crude material shows 80 conversion based on ratio of the singlet at 6.9 ppm and the olefinic protons from the starting material.

mDPR Val Cit PAB MMAE was prepared by coupling Boc protected mDPR to Val Cit PAB MMAE using standard methods for peptide coupling. The Boc group was removed in the final step.

MMAE 5.34 g 6.94 mmol Fmoc Val Cit PAB OCO pNP 5.0 g 6.94 mmol and HOBt 1.4 mmol were charged to a 250 ml round bottom flask purged with N2 and dissolved in 15 ml of DMA. DIPEA 2.44 ml 14 mmol was then added and the solution was stirred overnight at room temperature under inert atmosphere. The product was isolated by preparative HPLC using a linear gradiant from 30 MeCN 0.05 TFA to 100 MeCN 0.05 TFA over 40 min. Fractions containing product were concentrated on the rotovap to a white powder affording 3.2 g 34 

A solution of 3.2 g of Fmoc Val Cit PAB MMAE in 7 ml DMF and 7 ml diethylamine was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to a thick oil on the rotovap. The product was precipitated in diethyl ether 100 ml and filtered affording 2.0 g of product as an off white powder which was used without further purification.

In a 50 ml round bottom flask mDPR boc OH 25 mg 0.089 mmol Val Cit PAB MMAE 100 mg 0.089 mmol and HATU 41 mg 0.107 mmol were dissolved in 2 ml DMF. DIPEA 34 uL was added and the solution was stirred for 1 hr at rt. The reaction mixture was diluted with 1 ml DMSO and the product was isolated by preparative HPLC. 70 mg 56 

The above material was dissolved in 2 ml 10 TFA dichloromethane and stirred for 1 h at rt. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness reconstituted in 1 ml DMSO and purified by preparative HPLC. 56 mg 86 

Thiosuccinimide hydrolysis of a self stabilizing bioconjugate can be monitored by electrospray mass spectrometry since the addition of water to the conjugate results in an increase of 18 Daltons to the observable molecular weight of the conjugate. When a conjugate is prepared by fully reducing the interchain disulfides of a human IgG1 antibody and conjugating the maleimide to the resulting cysteines each light chain of the antibody will contain a single maleimide modification and each heavy chain will contain three maleimide modifications see top . Upon complete hydrolysis of the resulting thiosuccinimides the mass of the light chain will therefore increase by 18 Daltons while the mass of the heavy chain will increase by 54 Daltons. This is illustrated in bottom with the conjugation and subsequent hydrolysis of a self stabilizing maleimide drug linker of the present invention mDPR Val Cit PAB MMAE molecular weight 1289 Da to the fully reduced anti CD30 antibody cAC10. The presence of the single N linked glycosylation site on the heavy chain results in the heterogeneity of masses observed in the unconjugated antibody.

By monitoring the intensities of the non hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed peaks in the mass spectrum of a self stabilizing bioconjugate over time mDPR Val Cit PAB MMAE the hydrolysis kinetics can be evaluated. This is done by plotting the percent of the total population which has hydrolyzed at each timepoint versus time top . These data are then fit to the exponential equation 1 where Y is the observed percent hydrolysis at time t Ymax is the asymptotic maximal hydrolysis and K is the hydrolysis rate constant. The half life for the hydrolysis reaction is defined as ln 2 

When this procedure is performed on the light chain of a reduced hIgG1 antibody the analysis is quite straightforward as there is only one conjugation site per light chain and the reaction is a simple progression from the unhydrolyzed species to the hydrolyzed species with a mass change of 18 Daltons. Performing this analysis on the heavy chain is complicated by the fact that there are a total of three conjugation sites resulting in a series of peaks of 18 36 and 54 Daltons as the conjugate undergoes hydrolysis. The analysis of the heavy chain is further complicated by the presence of multiple glycoforms. The analysis presented in was performed by only evaluating the peaks arising from the most abundant glycoform the transition from 54195 Da to 54250 Da and assuming that these peaks are a reasonable surrogate for the whole population of heavy chain glycoforms. As is evident in the observed kinetic profiles for light and heavy chains are very similar. For this reason and because of the added complexities of quantifying hydrolysis rates on the heavy chain noted above most of the data to characterize hydrolysis rates of self stabilizing maleimides conjugated to antibodies was determined from evaluation of the light chain hydrolysis.

One limitation of this methodology is that the electrospray ionization process tends to produce a small proportion of sodium adducts in the observed peaks approximately 10 under the conditions used to generate the data in which have an observed mass 22 Daltons greater than the parent mass. Many mass spectrometers do not have sufficiently high resolution to resolve this 22 mass from the 18 mass that results from hydrolysis on a protein with a total molecular mass in excess of 25 000 Daltons. Consequently at the early timepoints when the degree of hydrolysis is low the appearance of a peak at approximately 20 Daltons is a combination of these two effects which cannot be easily separated experimentally. As a result the estimate of the percent of hydrolyzed product at the earliest timepoints is probably an overestimate but the magnitude of this effect diminishes as the reaction proceeds toward completion

It was hypothesized that the presence of a basic amino group adjacent to maleimide would accelerate the hydrolysis of thiosuccinimides prepared with those maleimides and thus result in stable bioconjugates. The distance between the maleimide and the basic amino group was recognized as an important parameter in the design of such self stabilizing units. To evaluate the role of this spacing a series of maleimides were prepared with the general structure

To prepare bioconjugates with faster hydrolysis rates a series of maleimides were prepared with the general structure

The previous examples illustrate the influence that a basic group can have over the rate of succinimide ring hydrolysis in a bioconjugate depending on the distance between the basic group and the maleimide of the parent molecule. However it is expected that the presence of electron withdrawing or donating groups will also influence the rate of ring hydrolysis since these groups will influence the electron density and therefore electrophilicity at the carbonyl carbons of the ring. In the conjugates of example 5 a carboxamide group is present in the alpha position relative to the nitrogen of the ring i.e. a single carbon atom is present between the nitrogen of the ring and the carbonyl carbon of the carboxamide . Because the carboxamide is a weak electron withdrawing group its presence is likely to influence the observed hydrolysis rates. To better understand the relative contributions of the basic amino group and the electron withdrawing carboxamide group on the observed hydrolysis rates a series of maleimides were conjugated to a reduced human IgG1 antibody at pH 7.4 22 C. and the hydrolysis rates determined by mass spectrometry . These maleimides contained just the carboxamide in the alpha position triangles just the primary amine in the beta position inverted triangles or both the carboxamide and the primary amine circles . A control maleimide which contained neither group in proximity to the maleimide was also evaluated although its hydrolysis is so slow that no reaction was observed under these conditions and no data is plotted. Under these conditions the self stabilizing maleimide which contains both the base and the electron withdrawing group produced a bioconjugate with a hydrolysis tof just 12 minutes while the maleimide containing only the amine yielded a tof 2.5 hours and the maleimide containing only the carboxamide yielded a tof 24 hours. This result indicates that the basic group and the electron withdrawing group act in concert to yield a conjugate with the very rapid hydrolysis kinetics which are most convenient for the manufacture of bioconjugates under the desirable mild conditions. Conjugates prepared with the diaminopropionyl maleimide circles exhibit ideal hydrolysis characteristics with a tof less than 15 minutes under very gentle conditions and the reaction approaching 100 completion in about 2 hours.

The rapid and complete succinimide hydrolysis observed in conjugates prepared with self stabilizing diaminopropionyl maleimido drug linkers acid DPR shown in examples 5 and 6 above indicates the importance of both the basic group and the electron withdrawing group to the design. A second isomeric maleimido drug linker was prepared with diaminopropionic acid to further evaluate the role of these two components on the hydrolysis behavior of the resulting conjugates. The structures are termed maleimido DPR and maleimido DPR and are shown below.

Both DPR maleimides possess a basic primary amine which is separated from the maleimido nitrogen by two carbon atoms. Both also possess an electron withdrawing carboxamide group however the distance from the maleimido nitrogen the carboxamide varies from 1 to 2 carbon units and respectively . Finally the separation between the basic amine and the carboxamide also varies from 1 to 2 carbon units and a respectively . Collectively this means that in DPR the carboxamide exerts less electron withdrawing influence on the maleimide ring but more electron withdrawing influence on the primary amine relative to DPR. This is expected to slow the rate of hydrolysis by reducing both the electrophilicity of the maleimide and the basicity of the primary amine. When these maleimido drug linkers were conjugated to reduced antibody and monitored for succinimide hydrolysis a 17 fold lower hydrolysis rate was observed for DPR relative to DPR . This example illustrates how the relative positioning of a basic group and an electron withdrawing group can be used to tune the hydrolysis rate.

To evaluate the stability and pharmacological activity of ADCs prepared with self stabilizing drug linkers a self stabilizing maleimido drug linker was prepared. This drug linker contains the maleimido DPR group coupled to the cytotoxic agent MMAE via a protease cleavable val cit PAB self immolative group referred to herein as maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE . For comparison a non self stabilizing drug linker was used referred to herein as maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE . The only difference between these agents is the unit between the maleimide and the valine group of the val cit linker. The maleimide units of these drug linkers can be prepared using maleic anhydride and mono protected diaminopropionic acid and aminocaproic acid respectively

In standard buffer systems maleimide elimination from a bioconjugate prepared using thiol maleimide chemistry is essentially undetectable because the eliminated maleimide quickly reacts again with the thiol resulting in an equilibrium which lies far toward the side of the intact conjugate. However the addition of a thiol scavenger to the buffer creates a system in which maleimide that eliminates from the bioconjugate can instead react with the scavenger resulting in a persistent observable loss of the maleimide from the protein. An experiment using such a system was performed with antibody drug conjugates prepared with a self stabilizing diaminoproprionyl DPR maleimido drug linker alongside a non stabilizing caproyl drug linker. ADCs were prepared with 8 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a fully reduced humanized IgG1. Drug loading was confirmed by reversed phase HPLC on a polymeric PLRP S column as described previously Sun 2005 . Complete succinimide hydrolysis of the self stabilizing linker was also confirmed by electrospray mass spectrometry. These ADCs were placed in 150 mM Tris buffer pH 8 at 2.5 mg mL containing 10 mM N acetylcysteine as a scavenger and incubated for 2 weeks at 37 C. At seven timepoints during the incubation an aliquot of each ADC was removed and frozen at 80 C. Upon completion of the time course all samples were analyzed by the above reversed phase HPLC method to determine the drug antibody ratio. The results of this study are shown in . The ADC prepared with the self stabilizing DPR maleimido drug linker exhibited minimal loss of drug over this timecourse from 8.0 to 7.9 drugs per antibody over 14 days while the ADC prepared with the caproyl maleimido drug linker lost approximately half of its drug load from 8.0 to 3.9 drugs per antibody over 14 days under these conditions.

Assessing drug loading of humanized ADCs in non human plasma samples by the reversed phase HPLC method described in Example 8 can be achieved by first isolating the ADCs with IgSelect resin GE Healthcare which selectively binds to the human Fc domain. ADCs were prepared with 8 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a fully reduced human IgG1. These ADCs 0.25 mg mL were incubated in sterile rat plasma for 7 days at 37 C. At seven timepoints during the incubation a 50 L aliquot of each ADC was removed and frozen at 80 C. Upon completion of the timecourse ADCs were purified from each sample and analyzed by reversed phase HPLC to determine the drug antibody ratio. The results of this study are plotted in . As was observed in buffer incubation of an ADC prepared with a self stabilizing maleimide in rat plasma also results in little or no observable loss of drug under conditions which result in the loss of approximately half of the drug from a maleimido caproyl ADC.

A second assay format was utilized to assess ADC stability in rat and human plasma ex vivo. ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a human IgG1 partially reduced to a level of 4 thiols per antibody resulting in an ADC with 4 drugs per antibody . These two ADCs were spiked into rat and human plasma and incubated at 37 C. for 7 days. At seven timepoints during this incubation aliquots were removed and frozen at 80 C. until completion of the timecourse. ADCs were then isolated from each sample and MMAE released proteolytically from the isolated ADCs as described previously Sanderson 2005 . The released MMAE was then quantified by LC MS MS and normalized to the initial value for each ADC . In both rat and human plasma the ADC prepared with a self stabilizing maleimide lost little or no drug under these conditions while approximately half of the drug was lost from a maleimido caproyl ADC.

As described in Example 10 above the drug antibody ratio can be measured for ADCs in rat plasma by reversed phase HPLC analysis following purification with IgSelect resin. This method was applied to samples derived from an in vivo pharmacokinetic experiment in rats. ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a humanized IgG1 partially reduced to an average of 4 thiols per antibody resulting in drug antibody ratio of 4 . These ADCs were further purified as described previously Sanderson 2005 by hydrophobic interaction chromatography to isolate the species containing 4 drugs per antibody. These ADCs were dosed intravenously at 10 mg kg in Sprague Dawley rats. At five timepoints three animals from each dosing group were sacrificed and the collected blood was processed to plasma and frozen at 80 C. Upon completion of the study all samples were processed by the IgSelect resin method described above except that the sample volume varied. The drug antibody ratio at each timepoint in this study are plotted in . As was observed in rat plasma ex vivo the ADC prepared with a self stabilizing maleimide exhibits minimal loss of drug in vivo dropping from an initial value of 4.1 drugs per antibody to a value of 3.6 drugs per antibody 12 reduction after 7 days. During this same timeframe the drug antibody ratio of an ADC prepared with a maleimido caproyl linker dropped from an initial value of 3.9 to a value of 1.5 61 reduction .

This illustrates that the increased stability of a self stabilizing drug linker that is observed ex vivo translates into an in vivo setting.

Because maleimido caproyl ADCs are prone to loss of drug through maleimide elimination whereas self stabilizing maleimide ADCs are not it is reasonable to predict that exposure to antibody conjugated drug will be greater following equivalent doses of the two ADCs. To confirm this prediction ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a human IgG1 partially reduced to an average of 4 thiols per antibody resulting in drug antibody ratio of 4 . These two ADCs were dosed at 2 mg kg in Sprague Dawley rats and blood samples were taken at seven timepoints and processed to plasma. These plasma samples along with standards of each ADC for the preparation of a calibration curve were subjected to the mAb Select resin capture and papain release procedure described example 10 above to measure the concentration of antibody conjugated MMAE. Antibody conjugated drug concentrations were higher for the ADC prepared with the self stabilizing drug linker with the magnitude of the difference increasing with time data not shown . Initial antibody conjugated drug concentrations are superimposable reflecting the equivalence of the dose and drug antibody ratio of the ADCs. However divergence is observed within the first day reaching a two fold difference by day 3. These higher concentrations resulted in an approximately 40 greater antibody conjugated drug AUC for the self stabilized ADC relative to the maleimido caproyl ADC

To assess the impact of self stabilizing maleimides on toxicology ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE or maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE using a humanized IgG1 which has no known binding to any rat antigen partially reduced to an average of 4 thiols per antibody resulting in an average drug antibody ratio of 4 . These ADCs were dosed intravenously in female CD IGS rats Charles River Laboratories at 10 mg kg 6 rats per test article plus 6 rats receiving vehicle only . Prior to dosing and at 3 post dose timepoints blood samples were taken for hematology and serum chemistry analysis for biomarkers of toxicity. Neutropenia induced by the MMAE ADC appeared less severe for the self stabilized conjugate than for the maleimido caproyl ADC data not shown .

The toxicology experiment described in example 13 above also included blood draws at one hour and 24 hours post dose which along with the 4 day and 7 day post dose samples were analyzed for unconjugated MMAE in plasma by LC MS MS. The results of this analysis indicated that peak concentrations of circulating MMAE are about 2 fold lower for the self stabilizing maleimido DPR val cit PAB MMAE ADC relative to the maleimido caproyl val cit PAB MMAE data not shown .

To evaluate the impact of self stabilizing drug linkers on the antitumor activity of ADCs conjugates were prepared with the anti CD30 antibody cAC10 using drug linkers containing the val cit PAB MMAE cytotoxic payload linked to the antibody via either a maleimido caproyl group or a self stabilizing maleimido DPR group. These ADCs were evaluated in two separate murine xenograft models of CD30 human malignancies. In the first model Karpas 299 human ALCL cells were implanted subcutaneously in female SCID mice and tumors were allowed to grow a volume of approximately 250 mmbefore dosing at 1 mg kg weekly for three doses six mice per dose group . All six mice dosed with the maleimido caproyl ADC experienced some tumor growth delay relative to the untreated group and two animals experienced partial tumor shrinkage however all tumors grew out and the entire group was euthanized with large tumors. The self stabilizing ADC dose group experienced complete responses no detectable tumor in all six animals with five animals experiencing durable regressions for the course of the study and only one animal sacrificed after its tumor had returned on study day 55. The results of this study indicate a significantly greater in vivo antitumor activity for the ADC prepared with the self stabilizing drug linker. In the second model L428 human Hodgkin Lymphoma cells were implanted subcutaneously in female NSG mice and tumors were allowed to grow a volume of approximately 100 mmbefore dosing at 1 mg kg every four days for four doses six mice per dose group . All animals in both ADC dose groups experienced significant growth delay during treatment however all tumors began growing out after study day 28 with no significant difference between maleimido caproyl and self stabilizing ADCs. Thus the improvement in antitumor activity observed with the self stabilizing ADC in xenograft studies appears to be model dependent.

