---

title: Providing call alerts using social network data
abstract: Alerts are provided for calls, where the alerts are indicative of the relationship of a caller to a call recipient in a social networking platform. An identifier for a calling device is used to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. An alert option for a call is selected, from among multiple, different alert options, based on the social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08958537&OS=08958537&RS=08958537
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 08958537
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 668 603 filed on Jul. 6 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to telecommunications including selecting and providing call alerts using social network data.

Phones typically alert the user of the phone when an incoming call is received. Ringtones vibrations or other alerts can be produced to inform the user that an incoming call has been received. Frequently ringtones and other alerts provide little information beyond a simple notification that a call has been received.

This disclosure relates to telecommunications including selecting and providing call alerts using social network data.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Techniques are described for using social network data to provide informative alerts for received communications e.g. calls electronic mail messages text messages etc. . In some implementations a phone or other device provides an alert such as an audible alert like a ringtone that is indicative of the relationship of a caller to a call recipient in a social networking platform. In these implementations when an electronic device receives a call the electronic device determines a relationship between the caller and the call recipient in the social networking platform and outputs an alert that is indicative of the relationship of the caller to the recipient. The electronic device selects the alert from among multiple alert options that are each associated with a different type of social networking relationship.

Because the alert is indicative of the relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform the alert may quickly inform the recipient whether the caller is for example a family member a friend a friend of a friend or an unknown caller. Alerts also may be indicative of other relationships. By selecting a call alert using social network data an electronic device may provide information in the alert beyond what is stored in for example a contact list for the recipient. In some examples in response to receiving a call an electronic device obtains social network data that indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient over a network.

As an example when a user receives a call from a friend in the social networking platform the user s electronic device outputs a first ringtone. When the user receives a call from a caller who is designated as being a family member of the user in the social networking platform the user s electronic device outputs a second different ringtone. When the user receives a call from an unknown caller that has no relationship to the user in the social networking platform the user s electronic device outputs a third different ringtone. In a similar manner the electronic device may provide different call alerts for calls from callers who are for example friends of the user s friends co workers or members of a group defined in the social networking platform.

In some implementations a call alert provides additional or alternative information about a caller such as the geographical proximity of the caller to the recipient. For example using social network data an electronic device determines a current or recent geographic location of the caller. In this example when the electronic device determines that the caller is located within a threshold distance of the recipient the alert for the call indicates the proximity of the caller to the recipient. A call alert can indicate both the relationship of the caller in the social networking platform and the geographical proximity of the caller to the recipient. For instance the electronic device may select a ringtone based on the relationship between the caller and the recipient and the electronic device may modify the ringtone with a beep or other sound that indicates that the caller is located within a particular distance of the recipient.

The electronic device such as a phone is associated with a caller . The electronic device such as a phone is associated with a recipient . Using the electronic device the caller initiates a communication to the recipient which is received by the electronic device . In response to the communication the electronic device outputs an alert that indicates a relationship of the caller to the recipient . As described further below the server system provides social network data e.g. data about user identities and relationships in a social networking platform over the network . The electronic device uses data from the server system to determine a relationship between the caller and the recipient .

In further detail in the illustrated example the electronic device is a phone and the electronic device initiates a phone call. As an alternative the call can be a voice call e.g. whether connected over a telephone network or another network a video call a chat message a short message service SMS text message or a communication of another type.

The incoming call is received at the electronic device which is associated with the call recipient . The electronic device obtains an identifier for the electronic device that initiated the call. In the illustrated example the identifier is a phone number assigned to the electronic device . The phone number for the caller can be obtained from for example automatic number identification ANI data provided with the incoming call. Different identifiers can additionally or alternatively be obtained. For example the identifier can be an identifier for the caller such as a user name or an electronic address e.g. an e mail address Twitter feed address etc. .

In some implementations the identifier used to identify the social networking user identity of the caller is caller identification data e.g. caller identification data provided with the call . For instance caller identification data may indicate a name of the caller . To obtain information about the caller the electronic device and or the server system may look up social network data associated with a name that matches the name indicated by the caller identification data.

The electronic device uses the identifier to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in a social networking platform. Examples of social networks include Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut to name a few. As described further below electronic social networking platforms may indicate a variety of relationships between human users of the social network. Examples of these relationships include social friendships family relationships professional relationships and affiliations with groups or organizations. Relationships are often represented by connections between user identities corresponding to the respective human users. When a connection exists between user identities and thus a relationship also exists between the associated human users one user may be termed a friend a connection a follower or a subscriber of another user or the relationship may have another designation.

In some implementations the electronic device stores social network data on the electronic device prior to receiving the communication and accesses the stored social network data in response to receipt of the communication. The stored data can include for example a list identifying friends of the recipient in the social networking platform or other users directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform. In the illustrated example the electronic device accesses social network data from an internal memory device. The social network data is cached data that was received through for example interactions of the electronic device with a social networking service before the incoming call is received. The social network data may be stored in an independent data structure for example as a data file for a particular application. In addition or as an alternative the social network data may be stored with e.g. combined or merged with other contact data stored by the electronic device for example in a contact list or phone book of the electronic device . For example the electronic device can automatically and occasionally e.g. periodically retrieve social network data over the network and store the received data as cached social network data . The social network data includes for example identifiers for users that have relationships to the recipient in the social networking platform and data that identifies relationships of those users to the recipient . In the illustrated example the social network data associates phone numbers of various users with their respective relationships to the recipient .

Based on receipt of the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . If the electronic device finds the identifier in the social network data the electronic device uses relationship data associated with the identifier to select a call alert as described further below. If the electronic device determines that the identifier is not found in the social network data and thus is not recognized in the social network data the electronic device obtains additional social network data from another source.

In the example of the electronic device determines that the identifier e.g. the phone number of the caller 999 9999 is not present in the social network data and consequently that the stored social network data does not identify a social networking relationship for the user associated with the identifier . Because the identifier is not recognized in social network data stored at the electronic device the electronic device requests social network data from the server system over the network . In the illustrated example the electronic device sends a request for social network data. The request includes the identifier for the electronic device from which the call originated. The request also includes an identifier for the recipient or the electronic device associated with the recipient . For example the identifier may be a user name e.g. User1 or an electronic address for the recipient in the social networking platform. In addition or as an alternative the identifier may be a phone number for the electronic device e.g. the number 555 5555 or another identifier for the electronic device . The electronic device sends the request in response to receiving the call. Thus the electronic device sends the request sent after the call is received at the electronic device e.g. while the call is active .

The server system receives the request and obtains data that indicates what relationship if any exists in the social networking platform between the recipient and a user associated with the identifier e.g. the caller . For example the server system accesses social network data stored in one or more data storage devices to identify a user identity associated with the identifier . The server system then accesses information about social networking connections of the recipient to determine whether the identified user identity has a relationship with the recipient and if so what relationship exists. The server system may additionally or alternatively access information about social networking connections of the caller .

In some implementations the server system determines that a particular relationship exists between the caller and the recipient and indicates the determined relationship to the electronic device . In other implementations the server system provides social network data e.g. such as the identity of the caller a list of social network connections of the caller and or a list of connections of the recipient and the electronic device examines the social network data to determine what relationship exists.

In some instances the caller may not be directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform. Nevertheless the caller may be indirectly related to the recipient through for example one or more mutual friends or other connections in the social networking platform. In this regard the server system compares social networking profile data for the caller and the recipient to determine whether the caller and the recipient have common interests or other commonalities that are reflected in the social networking platform. As another example the server system determines whether the caller and the recipient are both affiliated with a particular organization in the social networking platform such as an alumni group or professional organization.

In the illustrated example the server system determines that a user is associated with the identifier and that the user is the caller . The server system also determines that the caller is not a friend of and is not otherwise directly connected to the recipient . The server system analyzes the connections for the caller and the recipient and determines that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient in the social networking platform. In other words the server system determines that at least one of the friends of the recipient in the social networking platform is also a friend of the caller in the social networking platform.

The server system responds to the request by providing social network data to the electronic device . The social network data is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The social network data can be data from which the relationship can be derived by the electronic device and need not explicitly indicate the relationship. In the illustrated example the social network data received by the electronic device indicates that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient .

Based on the social network data the electronic device selects an alert option for the call. In particular the electronic device selects an alert option that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. For example the electronic device selects the alert option for the call from among multiple different alert options that are each descriptive of a particular social networking relationship or of a set of social networking relationships. Call alert options can be associated with groups or sets of users where the sets are defined in the social networking platform. A few examples include sets of users designated as friends family members friends of friends or co workers. Other examples include users that are unknown to the recipient users included in a subset of a larger set or users having an affiliation or group membership in common with the recipient.

As shown the electronic device selects the alert option for the call using alert rules that specify alert options that correspond to different social networking relationships. The alert rules can be stored at the electronic device e.g. stored prior to receiving the call or can be received over the network . As described further below the user of an electronic device may define alert rules according to his or her preferences. When the alert rules are defined based on input from the recipient the alerts provided by the electronic device may be meaningful to the recipient . Alternatively the electronic device may use a standard set of alert rules that is not based on input from the recipient . The electronic device may use one or more alert rules defined by a user and one or more default alert rules which are not based on user input.

In the illustrated example the alert options that the electronic device selects from are ringtones that indicate receipt of an incoming call. The alert rules each identify a different ringtone that corresponds to a different social networking relationship with the recipient . According to the alert rule when a caller is determined to be designated as a family member of the recipient within the social networking platform audio from the song We are family by Sister Sledge is played. According to the alert rule when a caller is determined to be a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform audio from the song You ve got a friend by James Taylor is played. According to the alert rule when a caller is determined to be a friend of a friend of the recipient in the social networking platform audio from the song Hello goodbye by The Beatles is played. According to the alert rule when a caller is determined to be designated as a co worker of the recipient within the social networking platform audio from the song Workin for a livin by Huey Lewis and the News is played. According to the alert rule when a caller is determined to be unknown to the recipient audio from the song You don t know me by Ray Charles is played. In some implementations alert rules are defined so that one call alert option which may include multiple features or types of outputs is selected for each call to the exclusion of the other call alert options.

In the illustrated example the electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform and thus that the alert rule is applicable. From among the alert options e.g. ringtones specified by the various alert rules the electronic device selects the ringtone for the song Hello goodbye which is the alert option designated for a caller who is a friend of a friend of the recipient .

The electronic device uses the selected alert option to output an alert associated with the call. In the illustrated example the electronic device outputs the alert specified by the alert rule the ringtone Hello goodbye by The Beatles. The alert notifies the recipient that an incoming call is received and simultaneously informs the recipient of the relationship of the caller to the recipient within the social networking platform. In some implementations the alert is the first indication provided by the electronic device that the call was received and the alert is output while the call is still active.

In some implementations the electronic device stores prior to receiving a call sufficient information to permit determination of the relationship between the caller and the recipient in the social networking platform. For example prior to receiving the call the stored social network data may include information about users who are designated as friends family members friends of friends co workers etc. of the recipient within the social networking platform. When the electronic device receives a call and the electronic device already stores information that enables determination of the relationship between a caller and a recipient the electronic device determines the relationship without requesting social network data from the server system .

Although the alert options that the electronic device selects from in the example of are audible alerts other alert options can be used. Alert options can include for example audible output visible output vibration or other notifications or combinations thereof.

In some implementations to identify a social networking user identity for the caller the electronic device compares caller identification data e.g. a name of the caller etc. with stored social network data and provides the caller identification data to the server system . The server system may also compare the caller identification data to social network data or request data associated with the caller identification data from a social networking platform. When a social networking user profile has a name that matches the name indicated in the caller identification data or when other matching data is identified the profile may be determined to be a user profile for the caller .

The server system can be operated by an operator of the social network. Alternatively the server system can be operated by a third party that does not operate the social network. For example a third party server system provides social network data to users of an application or service that interacts with or supplements the functionality of a social networking service provided by the operator of the social network. The operations performed by the server system can be performed by individual computer systems or can be distributed across multiple computer systems. The network can be wired or wireless or a combination of both and the network can include one or more public or private networks and can include the Internet.

In some implementations each of multiple different types of social networking relationships is associated with a different call alert option. However a one to one correspondence between a particular alert option and a particular social networking relationship type is not required. The same call alert option can be associated with two or more different types of social networking relationships. As an example calls from family members and friends can be assigned the same call alert option. As another example calls from friends can be associated with a first call alert option and calls from all other types of callers can be associated with a second different call alert option.

In some implementations the social network data indicates multiple relationships between the caller and the recipient . In these implementations the electronic device accesses a hierarchy of relationships and selects the alert for the relationship that is deemed the closest to the user. For example if the social network data indicates that a caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient and also that the caller is directly connected as a friend of the recipient the electronic device selects the alert option based on the direct friendship as a closer relationship than an indirect relationship.

In some implementations and in some social networking platforms social networking relationships may be defined subsets within a set of users that each have another more general relationship to the recipient . For example from a set of friends or direct connections of the recipient in the social networking platform one subset of the friends may be further designated as family members another subset of the friends may be further designated as co workers etc. Accordingly in these implementations each user designated as a family member or co worker may also be a friend of the recipient .

In some implementations the social networking platform from which the social network data is obtained is different from the provider of the communication channel for the call. In the illustrated example the social networking platform is operated independently of the phone service that is used to provide the call. As another example where social network data is obtained in response to a video call social network data may be obtained from a social networking platform operator different from a video communication service provider that provides the video call communication channel or interface. Thus the social network data obtained is distinct from for example contact lists that are defined for use with the video call service and are maintained by the video communication service provider.

Any of a variety of techniques may be used to associate an electronic device with a user. In some implementations a server system stores data that associates an identifier for a device e.g. a phone number for a phone with an identifier for a social networking user identity e.g. a username or electronic address for the user identity of the owner of the phone . As an example an electronic device may be associated with a user when the user has registered with a social networking platform and or an independent application that provides the social network data a phone number of the electronic device as being associated with the user. For example the caller may designate in a social networking user profile for the caller that the identifier is a phone number for the caller .

In some implementations an electronic device is associated with a user when the user has stored in memory that resides on the electronic device a user identifier for the user. The user identifier may identify for example a user identity of the user in a social networking platform or may identify a user account in a third party service such as an independent application that provides social network data.

In some implementations an electronic device is associated with a user when the user is logged into an application on the electronic device and or a host server. In addition or as an alternative an electronic device may be associated with a user when the user is logged into a social networking platform using the electronic device. One or more of these log ins or others may be used to identify a user with which a particular electronic device is associated.

In response to receiving the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . The electronic device determines that the stored social network data does not indicate a relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device then provides the identifier for the electronic device and the identifier for the recipient to the server system in a request for social network data.

The server system provides social network data that indicates that the caller is unknown to the recipient . In this example the server system determines that the caller is unknown to the recipient because the caller is not connected to the recipient in the social networking platform with any of a predetermined set of relationship types. In some examples a caller is considered to be unknown when there is no direct connection between the caller and the recipient.

In some implementations the server system or the electronic device determines whether the caller is unknown based on the proximity of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. The caller can be designated as unknown when a separation distance between the caller and the recipient exceeds a threshold. Proximity in the social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two users. For example proximity between two users of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of connections required to link the user identities or user profiles of the corresponding users. When a caller is directly connected to the recipient in the social networking platform the distance between them is one connection. When a caller is connected to the recipient only through an intermediate user e.g. when the caller is directly connected to a user that is directly connected to the recipient the distance is two connections. A relationship distance of three can be defined for a caller connected to the recipient only through two intermediate users and so on. In the illustrated example the caller is considered unknown when the distance exceeds two connections e.g. the relationship is more remote than a friend of a friend .

The electronic device receives the social network data and based on the social network data determines that the caller is unknown to the recipient within the social networking platform. The electronic device selects an alert option for the call using the alert rules . From among the set of available alert options the electronic device selects the alert option indicated by the alert rule which includes for example audio from the song You don t know me by Ray Charles. The electronic device then provides an alert using the selected alert option. For example the electronic device outputs the audio for the song You don t know me as a ringtone. The alert thus informs the recipient that the caller is unknown e.g. the caller is not connected to the recipient in the social networking platform within a threshold level of proximity .

In some implementations the electronic device stores prior to receiving a call sufficient information to permit determination of whether the caller is unknown to the recipient in the social networking platform. When the electronic device stores information that enables determination of the relationship between a caller and a recipient before a call is received the electronic device may determine that the caller is unknown to the recipient in the social networking platform without requesting social network data from the server system .

As described above the alert option associated with calls from callers of a particular relationship status including a particular ringtone sound can be designated by the recipient and stored by the electronic device . Thus any appropriate alert option can be output to indicate the relationship of the caller to the recipient . Call alerts may indicate a relationship in a social networking platform without explicitly stating or otherwise objectively indicating the relationship. Indeed the significance of the alert e.g. the social networking relationship to which it corresponds may be known only to the call recipient that created the association between the alert option and the relationship.

In some implementations the electronic device requests social network data from multiple different social networks that have different operators. For example the recipient may have a user identity in each of several different social networks. In this example the electronic device requests social network data from multiple of the social networks. The electronic device selects the alert option for the call based on data from any of the social networks including based on a combination of data received from different social networks.

As an example the electronic device determines that a caller and a recipient are unconnected in a first social networking platform but are connected as friends in a second independently operated social network. By requesting and receiving social network data from the first social networking platform and the second social networking platform the electronic device determines the friend relationship even though it is not present in each of the social networks. As another example the electronic device determines that a caller is a friend of a particular user in a first social networking platform and the recipient is a friend of the particular user in a second different social network. Even if the caller and the recipient do not have any mutual friends in a single social network the electronic device obtains information identifying the friends of the caller and the friends of the recipient in both social networks. By combining the data from the two social networks the electronic device can determine that the recipient is a friend of a friend of the caller even though the information is not reflected in data from any single social network.

In response to receiving the call the electronic device compares the identifier with the stored social network data . From the results of the comparison the electronic device determines that the identifier is associated with a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform. Because the stored social network data indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient and because the social network data is present at the electronic device when the call is received the electronic device does not need to request or receive additional social network data over the network .

Having determined that the caller is a friend of the recipient within the social networking platform the electronic device selects an appropriate call alert option from among the alert options specified by the various alert rules . In the illustrated example the electronic device selects the alert option indicated by the alert rule audio from the song You ve Got a Friend by James Taylor. The electronic device then outputs an alert that provides the audio as a ringtone for the call.

Although the examples of illustrate call alerts in response to initiation of an interactive communication e.g. a voice call or video call an alert that indicates a relationship in a social networking platform can be selected and provided in response to other communication events e.g. the termination of a call or a discrete event such as the receipt of a text message or e mail message .

In addition in some implementations the same call alert option can be associated with two or more different types of relationships in the social networking platform. For example a user may designate a particular ringtone to play when calls are received from callers designated as family members within the social networking platform and the user may designate the same ringtone to play when calls are received from friends of the recipient within the social networking platform. Accordingly an alert can indicate that the caller has a relationship to the recipient in the social networking platform that is one of a set of multiple relationships.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. As described above Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be launched in the future.

Electronic social networking platforms frequently enable individual user identities e.g. users who have registered with a platform and or who have been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond to the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms a user identity may be able to unilaterally form a connection with another user identity. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by specifying a desire to form a connection to the second user identity and without requiring approval of the connection by the second user identity. Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may be a bilateral process. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection only after the second user identity approves the formation of the connection between the first user identity and the second user identity.

The connections formed between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. Such a graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time as new user identities join and old user identities quit the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections are formed and old connections are dissolved. Proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two user identities. For example proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of edges required to form a path between the two user identities within the graph representing the connections between user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

A user identity of an electronic social networking platform may form connections to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform thus forming a personal social network defined within the overall social network. As used herein the social network of a particular entity refers to the connections and entities for the particular entity which form a subset of the broader social network which encompasses the user identities for all entities and the connections among them. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity within the graph.

Electronic social networking platforms commonly facilitate sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between user identities and other user identities who are part of their social networks. In some implementations an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access information about the hometowns and or the current cities of residence of other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network but the electronic social networking platform may not allow the particular user identity to access this same information for user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide communication conduits between a particular user identity and the other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network that the electronic social networking platform does not otherwise provide between the particular user identity and other user identities who are not part of the particular user identity s social network.

Furthermore some electronic social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information within the electronic social networking platforms about locations they have visited. In addition these electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to access such information about locations that members of the particular user identity s social network have registered with the social networking platforms. However these electronic social networking platforms may not allow a particular user identity to access similar information about locations that other user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network registered with the social networking platforms. In some electronic social networking platforms when a user identity registers a location that the user identity has visited messages may be broadcast to members of the user identity s social network reporting that the user identity has registered the location as a location that the user identity has visited.

As discussed above in some cases an electronic social networking platform may define a particular user identity s social network as the group of other user identities to whom the user identity is directly connected. If this definition is applied within the electronic social networking platform illustrated in the social network for the user identity represented by node would be defined as the group of other user identities represented by nodes .

In addition to enabling a user identity to establish connections to other user identities and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to divide the user identity s social network into one or more subsets of user identities who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user identity. For example a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user identities within the particular user identity s social network that reflect other user identities with whom the particular user identity has a familial relationship a professional relationship or a social relationship. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

As further discussed above an electronic social networking application may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are part of the particular user identity s social network. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking application may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are part of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking application also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all such as for example one or more Friendlists of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity that is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may determine whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities some electronic social networking platforms enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. For example some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about their hometowns current places of residence or places they have visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. by establishing connections to location objects within the electronic social networking platforms.

Additionally or alternatively some social networking platforms may enable user identities to generate event objects within the electronic social networking platforms that represent events that they are hosting. After creating event objects for such events user identities may be provided with mechanisms for inviting other user identities to the events. Furthermore a connection may be established between an event object and a user identity within an electronic social networking platform as a result of the user identity being invited to the event and or as a result of the user identity registering with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event.

Similarly some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record endorsements of various different types of interests for example by establishing connections to interest objects that represent these interests. Such interest objects may include a variety of different types of objects including for example non personal enterprise objects. Examples of such non personal enterprise objects may include among others local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. In some electronic social networking platforms interest objects including non personal enterprise objects may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as so called pages. These pages especially pages associated with non personal enterprise interest objects may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. In addition among other features these pages may provide information about the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. These pages also may provide conduits for enabling interaction between the interest or non personal enterprise objects and the user identities that have formed connections to the objects that represent them.

Furthermore some social networking platforms may enable user identities to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf.

An edge that connects two nodes represents a connection that has been formed between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the non personal enterprise object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such a non personal enterprise object in order to record an endorsement of the non personal enterprise represented by the object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and a non personal enterprise object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects.

For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence.

Moreover in order to store a record of a place the user identity visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a place that the user identity visited. In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS and or map data available to the mobile computing device.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection that has been formed between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object node . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as event connections. There may be various different types of event connections between user identities and event objects in a social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity tentatively will be attending the event.

In some electronic social networking platforms that enable user identities to form connections with object types like location objects event objects and interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects such location objects event objects and or interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects each may be associated with one or more representatives. Furthermore the electronic social networking platforms may enable these representatives to interact with the user identities to whom the objects are connected using the manifestation of the object within the electronic social networking platform.

For example a non personal enterprise object within an electronic social networking platform may be manifested as a page that provides information about the non personal enterprise that the object represents and the electronic social networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the page to share information and exchange electronic communications with the user identities connected to the non personal enterprise object in a manner in which such shared information or exchanged communications appear to involve the page as opposed to an individual user identity. In one particular example the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables one or more representatives associated with the non personal enterprise to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all of the user identities to which the non personal enterprise object is connected.

Additionally or alternatively an event object within an electronic social networking platform also may be manifested as an event page that provides information about the event the object represents e.g. date time and location information for the event and the electronic networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user identities who have been invited to the event via the event page. In some electronic social networking platforms both personal user identities and non personal enterprise objects and their representatives may be able to create and host events.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable user identities to maintain user profiles or other collections of data that include information about the user identities to whom they correspond. Such a profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include among other information information about the user identity s hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. Additionally or alternatively the profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include records of various different interests of the user identity e.g. endorsements of non personal enterprises or other interests .

In some implementations a profile for a user identity may include one or more phone numbers electronic communication addresses e.g. electronic mail addresses Twitter feed address etc. or other identifiers. When a particular identifier is provided to the social networking platform the social networking platform can look up the user identity associated with that particular identifier. For example users may store their telephone numbers in their social networking profiles thereby associating their phone numbers with their user identities in the social networking platform. To obtain information about a user identity associated with a phone number an electronic device or a third party server system may provide the phone number to the social networking platform. The social networking platform searches among the user profiles for a user profile that includes the provided phone number. If a profile in the social networking platform includes the provided phone number the social networking platform may provide information about the user identity having the profile that includes the phone number.

In some implementations a third party server system rather than a social networking platform identifies a user identity or profile that corresponds to an identifier such as a phone number. For example a third party server may store cached data that has been extracted from one or more social networking platforms. The third party server searches among the cached data to identify a profile that includes or is otherwise associated with a particular phone number. The cached data may include cached user profiles or other data that associates identifiers for user identities e.g. usernames with corresponding phone numbers. In response to a request for data associated with a particular phone number the third party server finds the phone number in the cached data. The third party server may then provide cached profile data associated with the phone number if available. Alternatively the third party server may use an identifier for the user identity that is associated with the particular phone number to obtain social network data about the user identity from a social networking platform and provide the obtained social network data.

In some electronic social networking platforms at least some of the profile information recorded for an individual user identity may be represented by connections between the user identity and other types of objects within the electronic social networking platforms. For example information about a user identity s hometown and or current residence may be represented as a connection between the user identity and one or more different location objects for example as described above in connection with . Additionally or alternatively information about a user identity s interests may be represented as connections between the user identity and one or more different interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects for example as also described above in connection with .

As illustrated in the communications system includes an electronic social networking platform that is accessible to a number of computing devices or other electronic devices including for example a laptop computer a tablet computer and a smartphone over a network . In addition the communications system also includes a computing system . The computing system may be external to the electronic social networking platform . As such the electronic social networking platform may be accessible to the computing system over the network . Additionally the computing system may be accessible to the electronic devices over the network .

The electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. electronic devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. The electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

The electronic devices may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants laptop tablet and netbook computers and desktop computers including personal computers special purpose computers general purpose computers and or combinations of special purpose and general purpose computers. Each of the electronic devices typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for each of the electronic devices may store a client application for interfacing with the electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with the computing system . Additionally or alternatively the electronic devices may be configured to interface with the electronic social networking platform or the computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser.

Each of the electronic devices also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . Each of the electronic devices also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. the network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

The network may provide direct or indirect communication links between the electronic social networking platform the electronic devices and the computing system . Examples of the network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

The computing system may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which the computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over the network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

The computing system may host an application that leverages electronic social networking platform . As such the computing system may be configured to extract and process data from electronic social networking platform . For example the computing system may be configured to exploit the API to extract data from the electronic social networking platform . Among other features the computing system may be configured to extract data about multiple different user identities social networks including i information identifying the members of each user identity s social network ii communications shared with each user identity as well as communications shared with each member of the user identity s social network iii information about locations where each user identity has checked in as well as information about locations where each member of the user identity s social network has checked in and iv contact information e.g. telephone numbers for each member of the user identity s social network. Information from the extracted data is used to select appropriate call alert options for received calls. As an example information about members of a caller s social network and information about members of a recipient s social network permits an electronic device or server system to determine whether there are common members and thus that the caller is a friend of a friend of the recipient. As another example information about locations where a caller has checked in can be used to select or modify a call alert option based on location as described further below.

In some implementations the electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to grant the computing system a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user identities social networks that computing system may access and extract from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system may extract information about the user identity and the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network as well as demographic information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. . For each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with the user identity information about interest objects the user identity has endorsed information about locations where the user identity has checked in and or information about events to which the user identity has been invited. Additionally or alternatively for each individual user identity for which the computing system has a token the computing system also may extract communications that have been shared with members of the user identity s social network information about interest objects that members of the user identity s social network have endorsed and or information about locations where members of the user identity s social network have checked in. The extracted information can be provided to the electronic devices which can use the extracted information to determine for example whether a caller is within a threshold distance of the call recipient or whether the caller has recently experienced a significant event either or both of which may be used to select or modify a call alert option as described further below. In some implementations after extracting data from the electronic social networking platform the computing system may store the extracted data in one more databases.

In the computing system may represent the server system that provides social network data to the electronic device of enabling the electronic device to select alert options based on social networking relationships. The electronic devices may each perform the functions of the electronic devices of . That is any of the electronic devices may initiate calls or other communications as described for the electronic device . Further any of the electronic devices may select and output call alerts based on social network data as described for the electronic device .

The electronic device receives a call from a caller . The electronic device is associated with a call recipient. For instance the call can be an incoming phone call received at a phone associated with the call recipient.

The electronic device identifies an identifier associated with a calling device from which the call originated . For instance the electronic device may identify a phone number associated with a phone from which the call originated.

The electronic device uses the identifier to access social network data that is descriptive of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in a social networking platform . For instance the electronic device may access from a storage unit of the electronic device social network data received prior to receiving the call from a social networking service that operates the social networking platform the social network data being descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient. As another example after receiving the call and before using an alert option to output an alert associated with the call the electronic device may i provide the identifier to a social networking service that operates the social networking platform and receive over a network and from the social networking service that operates the social network the social network data. In addition or as an alternative the electronic device may provide the identifier to and receive social network data from a server system that is not part of a social networking service that operates the social networking platform e.g. a server system for a third party service or application .

In some implementations the electronic device requests from each of multiple social networking services that each operate a different social networking platform social network data that is indicative of a relationship of the caller to the call recipient. The electronic device receives social network data from each of the multiple different social networking services. In some instances the electronic device receives social network data from a first social networking service and a second social networking service of the at least two of the multiple different social networking services where the data from the first social networking service and the data from the second social networking service are descriptive of a relationship between the caller and the call recipient. The electronic device determines a relationship between the caller and the call recipient based on the social network data received from the first social networking service and based on the social network data received from the second social networking service.

In some implementations the electronic device interfaces with server systems for various different social networking platforms to obtain social network data. In other implementations the electronic device obtains social network data from one or more third party server systems and the third party server systems obtain social network data from social networking platforms. As an example the electronic device requests social network data from a third party server system. The third party server system obtains social network data from each of multiple social networking platforms or accesses stored data from each of multiple social networking platforms. The electronic device receives from the third party server system aggregated social network data from the multiple different social networking platforms.

The electronic device selects an alert option for the call based on the social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform . The electronic device selects the alert option from among multiple different alert options. The electronic device may select the alert option from among a plurality of alert options that are each associated prior to receiving the call with a different relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. For instance the electronic device can select from among multiple different audible alerts an audible alert for the call based on the social network data that is descriptive of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device may select a ringtone from among multiple different ringtones.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data a relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform e.g. determines the relationship between their respective user identities in the social networking platform . The electronic device accesses alert data that associates each of the multiple different alert options with a particular relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device compares the determined relationship to the call recipient to the accessed alert data. Based on comparison results the electronic device selects an alert option designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data a connection type of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The connection type is selected from a set of connection types including at least connection types of directly connected indirectly connected and unconnected. In response to determining the connection type of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects as the alert option for the call an alert option that was associated with the determined connection type prior to receiving the call. The alert option is selected from among a set of alert options that includes at least an alert option associated with the connection type of directly connected an alert option associated with the connection type of indirectly connected and an alert option associated with the connection type of unconnected. The caller can be indirectly connected to the call recipient when for example the caller has at least a threshold proximity to the call recipient in the social networking platform and is not directly connected to the call recipient. The caller can be unconnected to the call recipient when for example the caller does not have a minimum threshold proximity to the call recipient in the social networking platform e.g. the caller and call recipient are separated by more than a threshold number of intermediate connections .

In some implementations the electronic device receives first user input designating a first alert option for calls received from callers having a first relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device receives second user input designating a second alert option for calls received from callers having a second relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform where the second alert option is different from the first alert option and the second relationship being different from the first relationship. To select the alert option for the call the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller has the first relationship to the call recipient the electronic device selects the first alert option.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from callers that are not friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is included in a predefined subset of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are included in the predefined subset and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are not included in the predefined subset. In response to determining that the caller is included in the predefined subset of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform that are included in the predefined subset.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of a friend of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from callers having a relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform other than being a friend of a friend. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of a friend of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from friends of friends of the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is designated as a family member of the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from callers designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from callers not designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller is designated as a family member of the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from callers designated as family members of the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller is not a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform. The electronic device determines based on the social network data that the caller and the call recipient are both members of a group defined within the social networking platform e.g. an alumni group a social club or another organization or affiliation . The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from members of the group defined within the social networking platform and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from callers that are not members of the group defined within the social networking platform. In response to determining that the caller and the call recipient are both members of the group defined within the social networking platform the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from members of the group defined within the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller does not have any relationship to the call recipient. The electronic device accesses data that indicates i a first alert option that is designated for calls received from callers that do not have any relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform and ii at least one other alert option designated for calls received from callers that have a relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform. In response to determining that in the social networking platform the caller does not have any relationship to the call recipient the electronic device selects from among at least the first alert option and the at least one other alert option the first alert option that is designated for calls received from callers that do not have any relationship to the call recipient in the social networking platform.

In some implementations the electronic device selects the alert option for the call based on a location associated with the caller. For instance the electronic device may identify based on the social network data a first location associated with the caller. The first location may be a location of the caller at a time of the call or an estimate of location of the caller at the time of the call e.g. a recent or last known location of the caller a likely location of the caller an approximate location of the caller etc. . The electronic device identifies a second location associated with the call recipient. The second location may be a location of the call recipient at the time of the call or an estimate of the location of the recipient at the time of the call. The electronic device determines a distance between the first location and the second location. The electronic device accesses a threshold distance and compares the distance between the first location and the second location to the threshold distance. Based on comparison results the electronic device determines that the distance between the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance. The electronic device selects the alert option for the call based on determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance.

In some implementations to select the alert option for the call based on determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance the electronic device determines based on the social network data a relationship of the caller to the call recipient. The electronic device identifies a first alert option designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient. The electronic device modifies the first alert option in response to determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold distance. The electronic device selects the modified alert option as the alert option for the call.

In some implementations the electronic device selects the alert option for the call based on a location associated with the caller. For instance the electronic device selects the alert option based on a location of the caller in response to determining based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller has a particular relationship with the call recipient or that the caller has one of a predefined set of relationships with the call recipient. As an example in some implementations the electronic device determines based on the social network data that in the social networking platform the caller is a friend of the call recipient. In response to determining that the caller is a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform the electronic device selects the alert option based on the location of the caller. The electronic device may receive a second call from a second caller and determine that the second caller is not a friend of the call recipient. In response to determining that the second caller is not a friend of the call recipient the electronic device can select the alert option for the second call without using a location of the second caller.

The electronic device uses the selected alert option to output an alert associated with the call . For instance when a particular ringtone is the selected alert option the electronic device outputs the selected ringtone in response to receiving the call. As another example the electronic device outputs a selected audible alert after the call has terminated e.g. a missed call alert etc. . The electronic device outputs one or more of audible output visual output haptic output or other output.

In some implementations the electronic device displays while the selected alert option is output as an alert associated with the call information that indicates the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform. In these implementations the electronic device supplements the display to provide information that confirms the relationship designated by an audible alert.

The alert includes audio output by the electronic device where the particular audio produced has previously been designated to be played when calls are received from callers designated as being family members in social network data. The alert includes an event indicator that identifies a communication event corresponding to the alert. In the illustrated example the event indicator is a visual indicator that denotes that an incoming call has been received and that the incoming call is still active. The alert also includes a relationship indicator that indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient in a social networking platform. For instance the relationship indicator visually indicates that the caller is a family member of the recipient. The alert also includes a social network indicator that indicates a social networking platform in which the caller has the relationship with the recipient.

In the illustrated example the electronic device has determined that the caller and the recipient are both members of a group defined within a social networking platform. For instance the electronic device determines that the caller is a member of a college alumni group in the social networking platform and that the recipient e.g. the user identity associated with the electronic device is a member of the same alumni group. The electronic device also determines for example that the caller and the recipient do not have any connections in the social networking platform that are closer than a common group membership e.g. the caller is not a friend family member etc. of the recipient .

The alert includes audio output by the electronic device and the audio produced has previously been designated to be played when calls are missed from members of the group. The alert includes an event indicator that identifies a communication event corresponding to the alert. In the illustrated example the event indicator is a visual indicator that denotes that a call has been missed e.g. that an incoming call was received but terminated without being answered . The alert also includes a relationship indicator that indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient. For instance the relationship indicator visually indicates that the caller is a member of the same alumni group as the recipient. The alert also includes a social network indicator that indicates a social networking platform in which the caller has the relationship with the recipient.

In some implementations the user interface is a rendered web page or an interface of an application running on the electronic device. Alert rules defined using the user interface can be used to select alerts for calls received by the electronic device that provides the user interface and or other electronic devices. For example a user may set alert rules using one electronic device and the alert rules may be transmitted to one or more different electronic devices.

The user interface includes elements that identify sets of users defined within the social networking platform. The different sets of users can be defined by different relationship types in the social networking platform or by classifications based on connections within the social networking platform. For example in each of the elements identifies a different set of users respectively friends friends of friends co workers family members friends in a subset of the user s friends and unknown users. By interacting with one or more of the elements the user can select a set of users. The selected set of users can include combinations of the sets of users shown such as a group including friends and family.

The user interface also includes a ringtone selection control that permits a user to select one of multiple ringtone sounds. In some implementations the user interface permits selection of other outputs such as vibration or visual output in addition to or instead of audible output. Similarly some user interfaces permit the user to associate an alert with communication events other than receipt of an incoming call for example a call being missed or receipt of a text message. After selecting the set of callers for which the alert applies using the elements and after selecting the desired ringtone or other alert a user can interact with a button or other control to create the association between the selected set of callers and the desired ringtone or other alert.

In the illustrated example sets of users defined by relationships include friends friends of friends family a subset of the friends e.g. a set of friends who are also designated as poker players unknown callers e.g. users that are more distant than a friend of a friend and co workers

In addition the relationships include users having a particular relationship in a particular social networking platform e.g. Facebook friends . In some implementations a particular relationship status such as friend status is associated with a different ringtone for callers connected to the recipient through different social networking platforms. For example a first ringtone may be provided for friends in a first social networking platform and a second different ringtone may be provided for calls from friends in a second different social networking platform e.g. a social networking platform operated independently from the first social networking platform .

In some social networking platforms groups are defined such that users may be included in or affiliated with the group without being formally connected to each other. The alumni group and the professional organization are examples of relationships that reflect membership in such groups. Other relationships and thus other sets of potential callers also may be defined.

In the illustrated example each of the relationships is associated with a different corresponding ringtone . In some implementations however the same ringtone may be associated with multiple of the relationships 

The electronic device determines a relationship of a caller to a call recipient based on social network data . As described above the social network data indicative of the relationship can be data stored at the electronic device before the call is received or the social network data indicative of the relationship can be data obtained over a network in response to the call or another communication event.

The electronic device determines that the caller is a friend of the call recipient in the social networking platform . In some implementations the use of location information can be conditioned on the relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform. For example in some implementations the electronic device provides an alert indicative of the location of a caller only when the caller is determined to be a friend of the recipient. Thus in such implementations when the caller is determined to be a friend the electronic device performs the remaining operations of the process but the electronic device performs different operations if the caller is not determined to be a friend of the recipient.

The electronic device identifies a first audible alert designated for calls received from callers having the determined relationship to the call recipient. For example the electronic device identifies a ringtone corresponding to the determined relationship using one of the alerts illustrated in or .

The electronic device identifies a location associated with the caller based on the social network data. For example the electronic device identifies a check in location such as the most recent check in location for the caller that indicates a place that the caller has visited. The electronic device can identify the location using other types of social network data that associates the caller with a location such as a social networking profile for the caller status indications for the caller tags or labels for photographs shared in the social networking platform or posts or other submissions from any user to name a few examples. The identified location can be a current location of the caller or a recent location of the caller e.g. a location of the caller at a time within a threshold time period . In some implementations the location is obtained by the recipient after the caller has permitted the location to be shared e.g. by making the location public in a public post or check in or by opting in to authorize sharing of location information .

The electronic device determines that the location associated with the caller is within a threshold distance from the call recipient . The electronic device can determine a location associated with the call recipient e.g. a current location of the electronic device . For example the electronic device determines a location associated with the recipient using a Global Positioning System GPS receiver module triangulation information received from nearby devices recent user input from the recipient or social network data about the recipient e.g. the call recipient s social networking profile posts status indications etc. . The electronic device then calculates a distance between the location associated with the caller and the location associated with the call recipient and compares the distance to a threshold distance e.g. a threshold distance of 5 miles 25 miles 100 miles etc. .

In response to determining that the location associated with the caller is within a threshold distance of the location associated with the call recipient the electronic device modifies the first audible alert . For example the electronic device adds a beep tone or other audible feature to a selected ringtone. The modifications can be periodic such as a beep that repeats at a regular interval. Different modifications can additionally or alternatively be made. As another example the electronic device modifies an audible alert to be output to notify the caller of a missed call.

The electronic device selects the modified audible alert as the alert option for the call . The modified audible alert can be indicative of the relationship of the caller to the call recipient in the social networking platform and the geographic proximity of the caller to the call recipient e.g. that the call recipient is located within the predetermined threshold distance . In instances when the caller is not determined to be within the threshold distance of the call recipient the electronic device outputs the unmodified audible alert corresponding to the caller s relationship to the call recipient.

In some implementations modifying alert options includes modifying e.g. adding removing and or altering haptic output e.g. vibration visual output or other output of the alert option in addition to or instead of modifying audible output.

In some implementations location information is used to select an alert option rather than modify an already selected alert option. Further while examples are provided showing alert options that are indicative of both a relationship of the caller and geographic proximity of the caller the techniques described above can be used to provide call alerts that are indicative of geographic proximity only. For example a ringtone or modification of a ringtone may be indicative of geographic proximity of the caller to the recipient where geographic proximity is determined using social network data without the ringtone or other alert option being indicative of a social relationship in the social networking platform.

In the illustrated example the electronic device modifies the alert option based on proximity of the caller to the recipient . In the example of the electronic device modifies alert options only when the caller is a friend. Because the caller is a friend of the recipient the electronic device determines whether the location of the caller is such that the alert option for the call should be modified to indicate proximity of the caller. Using social network data the electronic device determines that the caller is in Los Angeles Calif. The electronic device also determines that the recipient is in Los Angeles Calif. or is otherwise within a threshold distance of the caller . In response the electronic device modifies the selected alert option by inserting beeps into a ringtone of the selected alert option.

According to the modified alert option the electronic device outputs the ringtone and the beeps that indicate proximity of the caller . Thus the ringtone indicates the relationship of the caller to the recipient in the social networking platform and the beeps indicate that the caller is located within a threshold distance. As a result the recipient is informed that the caller is a friend who is located nearby which assists the recipient in determining whether to answer the call.

In the illustrated example the electronic device also provides a visual indicator that indicates the location of the caller or otherwise indicates that the caller is nearby. The electronic device may additionally or alternatively indicate a distance of the caller to the recipient and or the threshold distance used to assess geographic proximity of the caller .

In some implementations an electronic device can provide an alert indicative of the social networking platform from which a relationship was determined. For example the electronic device provides a visual indicator indicating that the relationship determined between the caller and the recipient was identified in a particular social networking platform. The alert option for a call can be selected or modified based on the social networking platform in which a relationship is determined to exist. For example different alerts can be provided for calls from callers that have the same relationship to the caller but the relationships are defined in different social networking platforms.

In the example of some alert rules designate modifications to their associated ringtones that may be made based on the location of a caller for example when a caller having the specified relationship has a location within a threshold distance. The call alerts are each associated with a different relationship . The relationships specify sets of users defined by social networking connections namely friends friends of friends family and poker players which is a subset of the friends in the social networking platform

The alert rules each specify an associated distance threshold which permits the distance threshold for each call alert rule to be different. The alert rules also specify a modification to the respective ringtones that should occur when the distance threshold is satisfied. For instance the modification designates that a beep should be added to the ringtone when a caller who is a friend is located within 25 miles of the call recipient. The modification designates that a bell sound should be added to the ringtone when a caller who is a family member is located within 100 miles of the call recipient.

The other alert rules do not specify that any modification should occur based on distance. Accordingly these alert rules indicate that the same alert should be provided regardless of proximity of the caller and the recipient.

Referring to in some implementations call alerts can be selected or modified based on other social network data in addition to or instead of data indicative of the social networking relationship of the caller and the recipient and the geographical proximity of the caller to the recipient. Just as an alert may be indicative of geographical proximity an alert may additionally or alternatively be indicative of for example an event in the caller s life a status change in a caller s social networking profile or other information derived from social network data.

In some implementations a server system provides information about significant events or attributes of the caller that are reflected in the social networking platform. In these implementations a server system analyzes social network content to identify a significant event or change in status associated with the caller. For example the server system may infer based on a caller s activity within a social networking platform e.g. message posts within the social networking platform by the caller and or other users that various events have occurred such as 1 positive romantic relationship developments e.g. new boyfriend or girlfriend engagement marriage etc. 2 negative romantic relationship developments e.g. breakup divorce etc. 3 birth of new child 4 acquisition of a new pet 5 illness 6 upcoming or recent trip or vacation 7 starting a new job 8 moving to a new city 9 obtaining a new home and 10 obtaining a new vehicle.

An electronic device can use information that the server system infers about events associated with the caller e.g. changes in status or events to select or modify an alert for the caller. As a result the alert can be indicative of the event indicated by the social network data. For example when information from the server system indicates that the caller is a friend who has recently become engaged the electronic device can play Mendelssohn s Wedding March as a ringtone. In a similar manner ringtones or other alert options or modifications of alert options can be associated with any of the events described above or other events inferred from social network data.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

