---

title: Mitral spacer
abstract: A heart valve implant may include a shaft and an anchor configured to be coupled to an end of the shaft. A spacer may be coupled to a portion of the shaft and comprise a plurality of individual segments including a first and at least a second individual segment. The first segment may be coupled to the shaft. The second segment may be coupled to at least a portion of an exterior surface of the first segment and may have at least one cross-section dimension which is greater than an internal cross-sectional dimension of a delivery lumen. Additional segments may be coupled to an inner, adjacent segment. The segments may include a collapsible body portion to facilitate percutaneously delivery through a lumen. The segments may define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232999&OS=09232999&RS=09232999
owner: CardioSolutions Inc.
number: 09232999
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130716
---
The subject application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 872 228 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 486 136 filed Aug. 31 2012 which is 5 a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 940 674 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 785 366 filed Nov. 15 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 092 525 filed entitled Heart Valve Implant filed on Oct. 26 2005 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure. Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency.

Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement is carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and is carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a mitral valve implant is depicted. As shown mitral valve implant may generally include a spacer or valve body portion which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to at least one anchor portion configured to couple attach and or otherwise secure the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. In general at least a portion of the spacer may be configured to be disposed proximate a mitral valve as generally shown in such that the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation through the mitral valve .

The spacer of the mitral valve implant shown in may comprise at least two individual segments or components . As will be explained in greater detail hereinbelow the plurality of segments may be configured to be individually delivered and assembled proximate an implant site of the mitral valve implant to form a spacer having an overall size and shape configured to accommodate at least in part a patient s anatomy etiology of valve regurgitation and or the limitations of the implant delivery system. The plurality of segments may be configured to form a mitral valve implant having a spacer with at least one cross sectional dimension that is larger than the internal cross sectional dimensions of the implant delivery system used to deliver the mitral valve implant . The plurality of segments may also allow a mitral valve implant to be constructed including a spacer having an external size contour and shape based on at least in part the patient s anatomy and etiology of the regurgitate valve. As such the mitral valve implant according to one aspect of the present disclosure may provide an enhanced sealing surface for the leaflets of the mitral valve for reducing and or eliminating excessive regurgitation.

As can be seen the spacer may be comprised of at least two segments that may be coupled to each other and ultimately to the shaft . Consequently a mitral valve implant according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may be built up or constructed from multiple segments such that the resulting constructed spacer may have various cross sectional shapes sizes configurations or contours based on at least in part the patient s anatomy and etiology of the regurgitant valve. The cross sectional shapes sizes configurations or contours of the resulting spacer may be varied by design and by quantity of the plurality of segments . Moreover a mitral valve implant may be constructed including a spacer having at least one external cross sectional dimension that may be larger than the internal cross sectional dimensions of the implant delivery system.

According to one aspect one embodiment of an exploded unassembled mitral valve implant and spacer is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment the plurality of segments are shown having a generally tubular or cylindrical shape. However one or more of the segments may include other shapes and or configurations. The overall shape configuration of each of the segments may be varied such that the spacer when constructed provides a desired outer surface for interacting and or cooperating with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation through the mitral valve . Moreover the overall shape configuration of each of the segments may also be varied such to facilitate delivery of the plurality of segments through the implant delivery device to the implant site.

For example one or more of the segments of the spacer may include a symmetrical or non symmetrical geometry. At least one segment may also have a tapered and or a bell like shape. In another aspect one or more of the segments may be configured to be disposed substantially concentric with an adjacent segment and or the shaft . Alternatively one or more of the segments may be configured to be non concentric with an adjacent segment and or the shaft .

According to another aspect one or more of the segments may be configured to be disposed substantially coextensively with one or more adjacent segments . Alternatively at least one of the segments may be configured to be non coextensive with one or more adjacent segments . For example at least one segment may be configured to be disposed about only a portion of an adjacent segment . In one instance one or more of the segments may be configured such that a single surface of a segment is in substantially direct contact with at least a portion of the surfaces of two or more adjacent segments . For example a first segment may include a surface having a first portion which is in substantially direct contact with at least a portion of the surface of a first adjacent segment and a second portion which is in substantially direct contact with at least a portion of a surface of a second adjacent segment . As shown the first segment may include an outer or exterior surface that substantially directly contacts two adjacent segments and . Those skilled in the art may now appreciate that the surface may also include an inner or interior surface of the first segment

According to one aspect at least one of the plurality of segments may be coupled mounted or otherwise secured to at least a portion of the shaft using any known technique and or device. In the illustrated embodiment a first segment may be coupled to a distal end of the shaft generally opposite the anchor portion . However other configurations are also possible. For example the shaft may extend longitudinally beyond the spacer in both directions as generally shown in . For instance one or more segments may be disposed proximate a central region of the shaft . Additionally two or more segments may be coupled mounted or otherwise secured to at least a portion of the shaft .

One or more segments may be coupled to at least a portion of the shaft by way of an adhesive or cement for example but not limited to a biologically acceptable adhesive or cement bonding molding for example but not limited to overmolding and the like or welding for example but not limited to ultrasonic welding or the like . The segments may also be coupled to at least a portion of the shaft using a fastening mechanism. The fastening mechanism may substantially fix the position of one or more of the segments and the spacer with respect to the mitral valve implant and specifically with respect to the shaft . According to another aspect the fastening mechanism may allow one or more of the segments and the spacer to move relative to the shaft . For example the fastening mechanism may allow the one or more of the segments and spacer to move generally along the longitudinal axis L and or radially with respect to the shaft .

One example of a fastening mechanism may include one or more detents or protrusions as shown in . The detents may be provided as a spring biased detent a resilient elastically deformable detent or a substantially solid detent. As illustrated the shaft may be provided with one or more detents extending generally outwardly from the shaft . Alternatively or in addition one or more of the segments may be provided with detents for coupling with the shaft . One or more of the detents may be integrally formed with the shaft and or segment . Furthermore one or more of the detents may be provided as a separate feature coupled to and or formed on the shaft and or segment .

In an embodiment in which one or more of the detents are formed as a spring biased or resilient elastically deformable detent coupled to the shaft the segment may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the segment over at least one of the detents which may at least partially retract or deform to permit passage of at least one of the detents through an opening and into a cavity of the segment . The spring biased or resilient elastically deformable detent may at least partially expand and or recover thereby resisting passage of the one or more spring biased detents back through the opening . For example the shaft and or the cavity may be provided with a recessed region not shown configured to at least partially receive and engage the detent . The size and shape of the detent the opening cavity and or recessed region as well as the force provided by the spring biased or resilient detent may be configured to engage each other such that the segment may either permit movement of the segment or substantially prevent movement of the segment

In an embodiment in which one or more of the detents are formed as a substantially solid detent coupled to the shaft the segment may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the segment over at least one of the detents . The opening of the segment may at least partially elastically deform to permit passage of at least one of the detents into the cavity . Once the detent has been pressed through the opening the opening may at least partially elastically recover thereby resisting passage of the detent back through the opening . Again the size and shape of the detent the opening and or cavity as well as the elastic properties may be configured to engage each other such that the segment may either permit movement of the segment or substantially prevent movement of the segment . Various other arrangements may be employed for providing detents on the shaft and or the segments for coupling controlling and or limiting translation of the spacer along the shaft . It will be appreciated that the segments may be selectively removable from the shaft by applying a force along the longitudinal axis L sufficient to overcome the holding force of the detents .

At least one segment may be configured to be at least partially disposed about and coupled to the first segment as generally depicted in . Additional segments may also be configured to be at least partially disposed about and coupled to an inner adjacent segment for example segment . As discussed above the number and configuration of segments may be based on at least in part the patient s anatomy and etiology of the regurgitant valve as well as the physical limitations of the implant delivery system such as but not limited to the internal cross sectional dimensions of the implant delivery system .

According to one aspect the additional segments may include an internal cavity for example as seen in which may be configured to at least partially receive at least a portion of an inner adjacent segment . As used herein the term inner adjacent segment or the like is intended to refer to a segment which is at least partially disposed radially inwardly e.g. generally towards the shaft . Additionally the term additional segments and the like is intended to refer to segments which are at least partially coupled to at least one inner adjacent segment. For example in the embodiment illustrated in a second segment may include a cavity configured to at least partially receive the first segment . Optionally a third segment may include a cavity configured to at least partially receive the second segment . While three segments are shown the spacer may include a greater or less number of segments .

One or more of the cavities may have an internal contour configured to substantially correspond to the outer surface of one or more of the inner adjacent segments to be received therein. For example the cavity may include an inner surface that is substantially coextensive with the outer surface of one or more of the inner adjacent segments to be received therein. One or more of the cavities and outer surfaces may be configured to provide an interference and or friction fit. For example one or more of the cavities may be deformable such that the cavity stretches either permanently or resiliently deformable to receive at least a portion of the inner adjacent segments to be received therein.

One or more of the cavities and or segments may be configured to reduce or substantially eliminate the rotation of one segment relative to an adjacent segment . For example a cavity and an inner adjacent segment may be provided with a non cylindrical shape such that the inner adjacent segment may be received in the cavity in substantially only a single orientation. Other configurations for reducing and or eliminating the rotational movement of adjacent segments are also possible.

While the illustrated cavities are shown having a configuration which may substantially entirely circumscribe at least a portion of the outer surface of an inner adjacent segment to be received therein one or more of the cavities may be configured to be disposed only about a portion of the outer surface of the inner adjacent segment to be received therein. For example one or more of the cavities may be configured to be radially disposed about less than degrees of the outer surface of the inner adjacent segment to be received therein as shown in .

In any case the additional segments may be coupled to an inner adjacent segment using any known technique and or device. For example the additional segments may be coupled to an inner adjacent segment using an interference fit between the cavity and the outer surface of the inner adjacent segment as discussed above. Alternatively or in addition one or more of the additional segments may be coupled to an inner adjacent segment using an adhesive or cement for example but not limited to a biologically acceptable adhesive or cement bonding molding for example but not limited to overmolding and the like or welding for example but not limited to ultrasonic welding or the like . The additional segments may also be coupled to at least a portion of an inner adjacent segment using a fastening mechanism. The fastening mechanism may substantially fix the position of one or more of the segments with respect to the mitral valve implant . According to another aspect the fastening mechanism may allow one or more of the segments and the spacer to move relative to the shaft . For example the fastening mechanism may allow the one or more of the segments and spacer to move generally along the longitudinal axis L and or radially with respect to the shaft .

One example of a fastening mechanism may include one or more detents or protrusions as shown in . The detents may be disposed out the outer surface of one or more of the segments and or may be disposed at least partially within the cavity of one or more of the segments . The detents may include any of the various detent configurations discussed above such as but not limited to spring biased detents resilient elastically deformable detents or substantially solid detents.

According to one aspect at least a portion of the body of one or more of the plurality of segments may be expandable retractable collapsible and or reducible in volume to facilitate percutaneous and or transluminal delivery of the mitral valve implant . In such a manner one or more of the segments of the mitral valve implant may include a collapsible member which may be reduced in volume and or reduced in maximum cross section during delivery to the heart and or during placement and or attachment of the anchor to native coronary tissue. After delivery to the heart the segments may be expanded inflated and or otherwise increased in volume or size. Accordingly the mitral valve implant may be delivered to an implantation site via a smaller diameter catheter and or via smaller vessels than would otherwise be required.

The deformable segments may be collapsed to a reduced size which may for example facilitate loading the mitral valve implant into a lumen of a catheter delivery system as generally shown in . Such a catheter delivery system may be suitable for transluminal delivery of a mitral valve implant including the segments to the heart as will be explained further below. In addition to being collapsed the segments may be deformed to facilitate loading into a catheter delivery system . For example the segments may be collapsed and may be rolled and or folded to a generally cylindrical shape allowing the segments to be loaded in a catheter having a generally circular lumen as generally depicted in .

A collapsed and or rolled or folded segments may be inflated restoring the segments to expanded configuration. For example a collapsed and or rolled or folded segments may be inflated and restored to an expanded configuration once the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart and deployed from a catheter delivery system . Inflating the segments may be carried out by introducing a fluid such as saline into the at least one cavity of the segments . In addition to a liquid such as saline the segments may be inflated with a setting or curable fluid. The setting or curable fluid may set and or be cured to a solid and or semi solid state within the cavity of the segments . An example of such a material may be a thermoset polymer resin a gel material such as silicone gel etc.

At least a portion of the segments may also be constructed from a shape memory material. For example at least a portion of the segments may include a shape memory alloy such as but not limited to copper zinc aluminum copper aluminum nickel and nickel titanium NiTi alloys. The shape memory alloy may include either one way or two way shape memory and may be introduced in to the delivery catheter lumen having a shape which does not exceed the interior dimensions of the delivery catheter lumen . For example the segments may have a generally elongated or generally helical shape. Upon delivery to proximate the mitral valve the shape memory segments may be heated to cause the segments to deform into the desired shape for installation.

Alternatively or in addition one or more of the plurality of segments may have generally solid geometry. As used herein the phrases generally solid geometry substantially solid geometry or the like are intended to mean a geometry having an outer surface that defines a substantially fixed or constant volume. That is a volume of the segments does not substantially change before and after implantation of the mitral valve implant . A generally solid geometry may include without limitation a solid semi solid or porous e.g. micro or nano scale pores material. The use a plurality of segments having a generally solid geometry may reduce the complexity and or cost associated with the fabrication and or implantation of the mitral valve implant . According to one embodiment a segment having a generally solid geometry may be provided having an outer cross section which is no larger than the inner cross section of the delivery lumen . For example the first segment may be provided having a generally solid geometry while additional segments may be provided having a deformable geometry.

One or more of the segments may also be coupled to the shaft prior to delivery of the mitral valve implant to the heart. In such an embodiment the segments coupled to the shaft may be provided having external cross sectional dimensions when either expanded or collapsed that are no larger than the internal cross sectional dimensions of the implant delivery system.

At least a portion of the plurality of segments may be constructed from a synthetic and or biological material depending on the application and the patient condition. The segments may include a plurality of layers. For example the segments may include an open or closed cell foam substrate for example but not limited to Invalon polyvinyl and an outer layer of a material that is biologically acceptable. The outer layer may also include a material that is soft and or deformable either permanently or resiliently deformable that may reduce and or eliminate further scarring and or damage to the leaflets of the mitral valve . According to one aspect the substrate of the segments may be coated with or formed substantially from a silicone urethane composite such as but not limited to Elasteon or the like.

The plurality of segments when assembled as generally depicted in may form a mitral valve implant including a spacer having an outer surface that may be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve e.g. the leaflets to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as illustrated in . According to one aspect the mitral valve implant and in particular the plurality of segments forming the spacer may be selected from a range or set of sizes and shapes. For example a standard set may be utilized where a set of consensus sizes and shapes of segments are pre manufactured and provided to health care providers as a kit. This particular aspect has the advantage of being the most uniform and therefore the least expensive for the patient. Alternatively a custom design may be fabricated where the exact size and shape of one or more of the segments is determined only after precise and or detailed measurements of the dimensions of a patient s mitral valve are obtained. As a result the overall size and or shape of the spacer may be contoured to a specific patient if necessary.

In practice the plurality of segments may be aligned serially along at least a portion of the shaft i.e. one segment after another segment and inserted into the implant delivery system a portion of which is generally depicted in . As mentioned above the implant delivery system may include a catheter having a generally circular inner lumen . Those skilled in the art will recognize that the catheter may include any catheter known to those skilled in art. While only a single lumen is shown for clarity the catheter may include a plurality of lumens . According to one aspect one or more of the segments may have an outer cross section that is larger than the internal cross section of the lumen . In such a case the plurality of segments may be deformed or otherwise reduced in cross section and or volume such that each of the segments may fit within the lumen .

Once loaded into the delivery catheter system the mitral valve implant may be moved or delivered proximate the implant site using any device know to those skilled in the art. While moving the mitral valve implant through the delivery catheter system the plurality of segments may be individually rotated to facilitate movement of the plurality of segments . This may be particularly useful to facilitate navigating the plurality of segments about curves bends or the like in the catheter . The shaft may include a generally rigid shaft and or a generally flexible shaft.

According to another aspect shaft and the plurality of segments may be separately loaded into the catheter delivery system and delivered to the implant site. According to this aspect the shaft which may optionally include the anchor portion may be first loaded into the catheter delivery system and the plurality of segments may be subsequently serially loaded into the catheter delivery system . Of course the order of loading and or delivering the shaft and or plurality of segments to the implant site may be changed.

Once the shaft and the plurality of segments are proximate the implant site the plurality of segments may be disposed or arranged about the shaft and inner adjacent segments to construct a spacer having a desired size and shape. While the spacer is illustrated having a generally cylindrical outer surface the size and shape of the spacer and each of the plurality of segments may be varied by design and by quantity to accommodate the patient anatomy etiology and limitations of the delivery system e.g. the internal dimensions of the catheter lumen .

According to an embodiment a first segment of the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft . The segment may include an opening extending from a first end of the spacer through the spacer and to a second end . In one such embodiment the opening may extend generally axially through the spacer and may be sized to slidably receive at least a portion of the shaft therethrough. The shaft may include one or more stops . The stops may be sized and or shaped to control and or restrict translation of the spacer along the shaft beyond the respective stops . In this manner in the illustrated embodiment translation of the spacer along the shaft may be restricted to the expanse of the shaft between the stops .

One or more of the stops may be integrally formed with the shaft . Furthermore one or more of the stops such as but not limited to stop may be provided as a separate member coupled to and or formed on the shaft . In an embodiment in which one or more of the stops are integrally formed with the shaft the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the spacer over at least one of the stops which may at least partially elastically deform the opening to permit passage of at least one of the stops . Once the one or more of the stops have been pressed through the opening the opening may at least partially elastically recover thereby resisting passage of the one or more stops back through the opening . Various other arrangements may be employed for providing stops on the shaft and or for controlling and or limiting translation of the spacer along the shaft .

The anchor portion may include a helical member coupled to the shaft . As shown the helical member may be loosely wound such that adjacent turns of the helical member do not contact one another for example resembling a corkscrew type configuration. The anchor portion may be engaged with tissue by rotating the anchor portion about the axis of the helical member thereby advancing the anchor portion into tissue. Consistent with such an embodiment the anchor portion may resist pulling out from the tissue. The anchor portion may be provided as an extension of the shaft wound in a helical configuration. Consistent with related embodiments the anchor portion may be formed as a separate feature and may be coupled to the shaft e.g. using mechanical fasteners welding adhesive etc.

According to various alternative embodiments the anchor portion may include various configurations capable of being coupled to and or otherwise attached to native coronary tissue. For example the anchor portion may include one or more prongs adapted to pierce coronary tissue and to alone or in conjunction with other features resist removal of the anchor portion from tissue. For example the anchor portion may include a plurality of prongs which may engage native coronary tissue. According to various other embodiments the anchor portion may include features that may facilitate attachment by suturing. Exemplary features to facilitate suturing may include rings or openings suture penetrable tabs etc. Various other anchor portions that may allow attachment or coupling to native coronary tissue may also suitably be employed in connection with the present disclosure.

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown implanted within a heart . The mitral valve implant may be disposed at least partially within the left ventricle of the heart . As shown the anchor portion may be engaged with native coronary tissue within and or adjacent to the left ventricle . The shaft coupled to the anchor portion may extend into the left ventricle . The shaft may further extend at least partially within the mitral valve i.e. the shaft may extend at least partially between the cusps or leaflets of the mitral valve and may also extend at least partially into the left atrium . The spacer of the mitral valve implant may be positioned at least partially within the left ventricle with the bottom portion within the left ventricle and with the upper portion positioned at least partially within and or pointed towards the left atrium .

Sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft may at least partially withdraw the spacer from the mitral valve to an open position as shown. When the spacer is at least partially withdrawn from the mitral valve a passage may be opened between the spacer and the mitral valve allowing blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Translation of the spacer away from the mitral valve may be controlled and or limited by the stop . In the open position the stop may maintain the spacer in general proximity to the mitral valve while still permitting sufficient clearance between the mitral valve and the spacer to permit adequate blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Additionally the flow of blood from left atrium to the left ventricle may cause the mitral valve to flare and or expand outwardly away from the mitral valve implant permitting blood flow between the implant and the cusps of the mitral valve .

As the left ventricle contracts the pressure of blood in the left ventricle may increase such that the blood pressure in the left ventricle is greater than the blood pressure in the left atrium . Additionally as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle initially increases above the pressure of the blood in the left atrium blood may begin to flow towards and or back into the left atrium . The pressure differential and or initial flow of blood from the left ventricle into the left atrium may act against the spacer and may translate the spacer toward the left atrium . For example pressurized blood within the left ventricle may act against the bottom of the spacer inducing sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft toward the left atrium .

In the closed position as shown in the spacer may be translated toward and or at least partially into the left atrium . At least a portion of the spacer may interact with engage and or be positioned adjacent to at least a portion of the mitral valve . For example at least a portion of at least one cusp of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . Engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve may restrict and or prevent the flow of blood from the left ventricle back into the left atrium .

In addition to the translation of the spacer the mitral valve may also at least partially close around the spacer thereby also restricting and or preventing the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium . For example as mentioned above at least a portion of one or both of the cusps of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . In some embodiments as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle increases the pressure against the bottom of the spacer may increase. The increase in pressure against the bottom of the spacer may in turn increase the engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve .

Sliding translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may at least partially be controlled and or limited by the stop coupled to the shaft . Additionally translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may be at least partially limited and or controlled by engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve . One or both of these restrictions on the translation of the spacer may in some embodiments prevent the spacer from passing fully into the left atrium . Furthermore the diameter and or shape of the spacer may limit and or restrict the movement of the spacer into the left atrium .

The preceding embodiment may therefore provide a mitral valve implant that is slidably translatable relative to the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate regurgitation. Additional embodiments of a mitral valve implant are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 entitled Heart Valve Implant filed on Oct. 26 2005 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 748 147 entitled Safety for Mitral Valve Plug filed on May 14 2007 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 748 138 entitled Solid Construct Mitral Spacer filed on May 14 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 748 121 entitled Balloon Mitral Spacer filed on May 14 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. For example the mitral valve implant may include a generally stationary spacer and may include more than one anchoring portions.

The implant herein has been disclosed above in the context of a mitral valve implant. An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present invention should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

According to one aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant. The heart valve implant may include a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant. A spacer may comprise a plurality of individual segments including at least a first segment configured to be coupled to the shaft and at least a second segment configured to be coupled to a least a portion of an outer surface of the first segment. The plurality of individual segments may define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The heart valve implant may also include at least one anchor configured to be coupled to a first end region of the shaft.

According to another aspect the present disclosure features a method of introducing a heart valve implant with respect to a heart valve. The method may include providing a heart valve implant comprising a shaft at least one anchor configured to be coupled to the shaft and a spacer including a plurality of individual segments including a first and at least a second segment. The plurality of individual segments may define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The plurality of individual segments may be serially aligned. The shaft and the first and the plurality of segments may be percutaneously delivered proximate the heart and the first segment may be coupled to the shaft. The second segment may be coupled to at least a portion of an outer surface of the first segment to define the spacer and the heart valve implant may be secured within the heart.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant system. The heart valve implant system may comprise a catheter including a lumen and a heart valve implant. The heart valve implant may comprise a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant. A spacer may comprise a plurality of individual segments including at least a first segment configured to be coupled to the shaft and at least a second segment configured to be coupled to a least a portion of an outer surface of the first segment. The second segment may include at least one cross sectional dimension that is larger than an internal cross section of the lumen. The plurality of individual segments may define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. At least one anchor may be configured to be coupled to a first end region of the shaft.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the claims when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

