---

title: Systems, apparatuses, methods and computer executable code for facilitating broadcast, publication and/or sharing of video from a user device to one or more other user devices in a social networking environment
abstract: The present invention includes systems, apparatuses, methods and computer executable code for facilitating broadcast, publication and/or sharing of video from a user device to one or more other user devices in a social networking environment. According to some embodiments of the present invention, there may be provided systems, apparatuses, methods and computer executable code for facilitating live broadcast of video captured by a user device image sensor to one or more other users associated with the broadcasting user within a social networking site (e.g. facebook).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038120&OS=09038120&RS=09038120
owner: LIVE LENS LTD.
number: 09038120
owner_city: Tel Aviv
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20130623
---
The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 663 659 titled Systems Apparatuses Methods and Computer Executable Code for Facilitating Broadcast Publication and or Sharing of Video from a User Device to one or more Other User Devices in a Social Networking Environment filed by the inventors of the present application on Jun. 25 2012 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 670 684 titled Systems Apparatuses Methods and Computer Executable Code for Providing an Interactive Friends and or Contacts Graphic User Interface filed by the inventors of the present application on Jul. 12 2012 and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 726 591 titled Systems Apparatuses Methods and Computer Executable Code for Providing an Interactive Friends and or Contacts Graphic User Interface filed by the inventors of the present application on Nov. 15 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to mobile communications. More specifically the present invention relates to systems apparatuses methods and computer executable code for facilitating broadcast publication and or sharing of video from a user device to one or more other user devices in a social networking environment.

Over the past couple decades the use of mobile communication devices has spread like wildfire throughout human civilization. The permeation of these devices into human society has been so complete that nearly every individual on the planet now carries a mobile communication device. As mobile devices became more and more common their sophistication has advanced in leaps and bounds such that nowadays most modern mobile devices provide all the functionalities of a home computer including multimedia and data networking.

These advances in mobile technology alongside its evergrowing use have produced an endless plethora of social networking platforms. Throughout the world people use these platforms to share their everyday experiences thoughts and interests with each other. Platforms such as Facebook and Instagram have become so popular that it is now extremely difficult to find an individual who is not at least a semi active member whereas many are extremely active and even continuously monitoring their profiles posting and liking .

The desire to share with others and receive their approval disapproval as well as their thoughts and opinions appears to be a very fundamental human trait. There is therefore a need to provide further functionalities to social networking platforms and create further venues and mediums for users to share their everyday experiences thoughts and interests with each other and receive their feedback.

The present invention includes systems apparatuses methods and computer executable code for facilitating broadcast publication and or sharing of video from a user device to one or more other user devices in a social networking environment. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided systems apparatuses methods and computer executable code for facilitating live broadcast of video captured by a user device image sensor to one or more other users associated with the broadcasting user within a social networking site e.g. facebook . It should be understood that live broadcast described in this disclosure may include according to some embodiments broadcast of video currently being captured video currently being captured with a delay buffered and or broadcast of previously captured video. The present invention may further provide for the viewing users to input live feedback e.g. like comments ratings etc. to the broadcasted video and may yet further provide for integrating live feedback into or alongside the broadcasted video. According to yet further embodiments the present invention may provide for viewing and or broadcasting users to view data relating to the status of other users associated with them on a social networking site within or alongside the video and may further provide for inviting such users to view the live video and or to request to view a currently broadcasted video. The present invention may further provide for users viewing and or broadcasting a live broadcast to view indicators within or alongside the video indicating which other users are currently viewing were previously viewing and or are not viewing the broadcast.

According to some embodiments there may be provided a Live Broadcasting Application hereinafter referred to as a LB App adapted to reside within or be functionally associated with a user device which user device includes distributed data network access functionality e.g. a mobile phone . A LB App may be adapted to interact with a user of the associated user device via the device s user interface and once instanced may be adapted to activate and or receive data from an image sensor of the device. A LB App may be further adapted to communicate by use of the device s communication functionalities via a distributed data network e.g. the internet possibly via a LB App server with a social networking site or service and with other users who are members of the social networking site or service social networking sites and services hereinafter collectively referred to as SNS . The LB App may be adapted to receive from SNS data relating to members of the SNS e.g. photo and online status and may further display data retrieved from the SNS to a user of the associated device. According to further embodiments a LB App may be adapted to display data retrieved from SNS alongside or within upon e.g. as an overlay a video being viewed and or being captured by the user. A LB App may be further adapted to receive and include in displayed data identities of parties currently viewing the video and or feedback to the video received from the viewing parties.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

It should be understood that the accompanying drawings are presented solely to elucidate the following detailed description are therefore exemplary in nature and do not include all the possible permutations of the present invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The term server may refer to a single server or to a functionally associated cluster of servers.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to memory cards for example SD card SIM cards any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.

The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer communication device or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language or markup language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages or techniques may be used to implement the teachings of the inventions as described herein.

The present invention includes systems apparatuses methods and computer executable code for facilitating broadcast publication and or sharing of video from a user device to one or more other user devices in a social networking environment. According to some embodiments of the present invention there may be provided systems apparatuses methods and computer executable code hereinafter collectively referred to as LB Systems for facilitating live broadcast of video captured by a user device image sensor to one or more other users associated with the broadcasting user within a social networking site e.g. facebook . The present invention may further provide for the viewing users to input live feedback e.g. like comments ratings etc. to the broadcasted video and may yet further provide for integrating live feedback into or alongside the broadcasted video. According to yet further embodiments the present invention may provide for viewing and or broadcasting users to view data relating to the status of other users associated with them on a social networking site within or alongside the video and may further provide for inviting such users to view the live video and or to request to view a currently broadcasted video.

According to some embodiments there may be provided a Live Broadcasting Application hereinafter referred to as a LB App adapted to reside within or be functionally associated with a user device which user device includes distributed data network access functionality e.g. a mobile phone . A LB App may be adapted to interact with a user of the associated user device via the device s user interface and once instanced may be adapted to activate and or receive data from an image sensor of the device. A LB App may be further adapted to communicate by use of the device s communication functionalities via a distributed data network e.g. the internet possibly via a LB App server with a social networking site or service and with other users who are members of the social networking site or service social networking sites and services hereinafter collectively referred to as SNS . The LB App may be adapted to receive from SNS data relating to members of the SNS e.g. profile picture and online status and may further display data retrieved from the SNS to a user of the associated device. According to further embodiments a LB App may be adapted to display data retrieved from SNS alongside or within upon e.g. as an overlay a video being viewed and or being captured by the user and or a display of the current view from the device image sensor. A LB App may be further adapted to receive and include in displayed data identities of parties currently viewing the video and or feedback to the video received from the viewing parties. It should be understood that an LB app according to some embodiments may be integral and or adapted to be installed in functional association with a SNS application residing locally on the device or on a remote server communicatively coupled to the device and all descriptions herein should be viewed to include such embodiments.

According to some embodiments a LB System may further include a LB App Server adapted to communicate with LB Applications and or SNS and to provide via a distributed data network e.g. the internet support and or communication functionalities to LB Applications. According to further embodiments some or all of the functionalities of a LB App Server may be performed by modules or servers hosted by embedded in or otherwise functionally associated with SNS and all descriptions herein relating to a LB App Server should be understood to apply equally to such embodiments with the relevant modifications. Equally according to yet further embodiments some or all of the functionalities of a LB App Server may be performed by an LB App itself and all descriptions herein relating to a LB App Server should be understood to apply equally to such embodiments with the relevant modifications

According to some embodiments upon instancement a LB App may contact one or more SNS of which the user of the device is a member possibly via an appropriate application programming interface of the SNS and login the user to the SNS or confirm the user is already logged in to the SNS. For this purpose upon initial instancement installment of the LB App a user may input the SNS of which he she is a member and the associated credentials required for logging in e.g. username and password and or an LB app may be adapted to automatically determine which SNS services are provided to the device e.g. by determining which SNS applications run on the device or by a synchronizing functionality of the device . Alternatively a LB App may prompt the user to login to one or more SNS. According to yet another alternative this information may be automatically retrieved from the user device memory. According to further embodiments a LB App may contact a LB App server which may perform the communications with the SNS in place of the LB App.

Upon contacting the SNS the LB App or LB App Server may retrieve from the SNS data relating to the user s contacts on the SNS e.g. online status current profile picture etc. and may display to the user the retrieved data upon the user device display. According to further embodiments a LB App may further retrieve and display to the user which of the user s contacts also has a LB App and accordingly may view or broadcast live broadcasts as described herein. According to yet further embodiments a LB App may also retrieve a list of broadcasts currently available for viewing from the user s contacts possibly including data relating to the available broadcasts e.g. source of the broadcast location feedback from other users relating to the broadcast etc. .

According to further embodiments upon instancement a LB App may also activate an image sensor of the user device and display to the user a current view of the image being sensed by the image sensor. According to some embodiments the data retrieved from the SNS may be displayed upon aside the current view of the image sensor e.g. as an overlay .

According to some embodiments a LB App may include a Broadcast mode. Upon instancement of the Broadcast mode a LB App may if not previously activated activate an image sensor of the user device and display to the user a current view of the image being sensed by the image sensor. Again the data retrieved from the SNS may be displayed upon aside the current view of the image sensor.

Within Broadcast mode a LB App may include a record control element. Upon instancement of the record control element a LB App may commence recording a video clip. According to further embodiments a LB App may stream by uni cast and or multi cast or otherwise broadcast the clip being recorded to the SNS e.g. as a post on the user profile or the LB App may broadcast the clip to an associated LB App server which may in turn stream or otherwise broadcast the clip being recorded to the SNS. According to further embodiments streaming of video content as described in this disclosure may include buffering of the video stream.

According to yet further embodiments a LB App or an associated LB App server may send a notification of the broadcast to contacts of the broadcasting user possibly via the SNS which notification may include an invitation to view the live Broadcast. Alternatively a LB App or associated LB App server may send a notification and or invitation only to contacts specified by the user individually or collectively . According to further embodiments the user may select whether to send a notification invitation to all contacts a specific group of contacts or only specified contacts i.e. select public group or private broadcast .

According to some embodiments upon receiving a notification invitation to view a live Broadcast a user may request to view the live broadcast. Alternatively a user may request to view a live broadcast from a list of current live broadcasts displayed by a LB App. When a user requests to view a live broadcast the LB App of the broadcaster may directly or via a LB App server or via a SNS stream or otherwise broadcast the live broadcast to the requesting user. In those embodiments in which a LB App transmits the broadcast directly to the other users it may first retrieve contact data for the intended viewer devices e.g. IP Address from a LB App Server or a SNS. According to further embodiments a LB App may uni cast the broadcast to an associated LB App server which may in turn multi cast the broadcast to the viewer devices. According to yet further embodiments a LB App server may uni cast the broadcast to each of the viewer devices and may modify the broadcast to match the capabilities and or preferences of the viewing device and user.

According to further embodiments the LB App may broadcast the live Broadcast to the requesting users only after authorization from the Broadcasting user. The need for authorization may depend on the type of broadcast e.g. public or private the relationship with the requesting user some users may be pre authorized whether the user is responding to an invitation or has selected the broadcast from a list i.e. invited users may not need authorization etc and or any other relevant criteria. A LB App may include options for a user to pre define the circumstances under which authorization is needed to view his her broadcasts.

According to some embodiments the LB App of a Broadcasting user may display aside upon the video display an indication of the current viewers of his her live broadcast. For example icons associated with user contacts may change color or background when the associated user contact is viewing the broadcast. According to further embodiments a LB App of a viewing user may include options to input feedback to the broadcast e.g. like dislike ratings comments etc. possibly in real time. According to further embodiments a LB App of a broadcasting user may display aside upon the video display received feedback possibly including the source of the feedback. For example a profile picture of the viewing user that sent the feedback may appear upon the video along with the comment. According to further embodiments indications of currently viewing users and or their feedback may be displayed to all users currently viewing the Broadcast.

According to some embodiments a LB App may be further adapted to determine a geographical location of the broadcasting user e.g. may retrieve geo data from a GPS unit of the user device and may display this data upon aside the broadcast video.

According to some embodiments data displayed upon aside a broadcast viewing users online users feedback geo data etc may be inserted by the broadcasting LB App into the streaming video. According to further embodiments this data may be attached to the streaming video as metadata or transmitted separately and may be inserted into the display by the receiving LB App of the viewer. Alternatively a combination of the two may be performed. According to some embodiments an LB App may include a data integration unit adapted to aggregate data to be integrated into a LB display from different sources e.g. SNS other users device GPS unit etc. and integrate the data into the display based on a pre defined and or user defined rule set.

Upon completion of the broadcast e.g. upon termination of recording by the broadcasting user a LB App of the broadcasting user or an associated LB App server may post the complete broadcast upon SNS profiles of the broadcasting user with or without the list of viewers and or received feedback to the broadcast.

According to some embodiments a LB App or an associated LB App Server may include image processing circuitry which may be adapted to modify the broadcast based on the requirements of viewing users e.g. modify bit rate resolution etc. and or upon request selection of the broadcasting user. For example upon selection by a broadcasting user a LB App or an associated LB App Server may be adapted to add visual effects to the broadcast. Furthermore a LB App or an associated LB App Server may include image processing circuitry adapted to modify the image data received from the image sensor based on user preference user selection and or automatically. For example the image processing circuitry may be adapted to apply color filters to the received data adjust brightness contrast of the images apply digital magnification to the images etc.

According to further embodiments of the present invention a user of a LB App may subscribe to specific broadcasters such that the user is notified whenever a broadcaster to which he is subscribed posts a new broadcast. Similarly users may form broadcasting groups such that each member of a group is automatically invited to any broadcast of a member of the group.

According to further embodiments of the present invention a LB App or an associated LB App Server may include Tagging options allowing users to identify persons or objects appearing in a broadcast. Tagged users may receive notifications of broadcasts in which they were tagged and or a post of the broadcast may be added to their SNS profile s .

According to yet further embodiments a LB App may include options to view previous broadcasts with or without associated data e.g. the list of viewers received feedback geo tags etc. . Viewing of previous broadcasts may be facilitated by the Broadcaster s LB App an associated LB App server and or the SNS.

According to further embodiments a LB App may further include options to link a broadcast to one or more other broadcasts either current or previous either from the same broadcaster or from different broadcasters. Linked broadcasts may share a commonality e.g. broadcasts from the same location broadcasts of similar events etc . An indication of a Broadcast s links may be displayed within alongside a broadcast and may further include a characterization of the link commonality. Furthermore a LB App may include an option to view linked broadcasts simultaneously or in succession.

According to yet further embodiments a LB App may provide for viewing two or more broadcasts linked or not linked simultaneously. For example if two users are broadcasting a live broadcast of an event from different angles these broadcasts may be linked or otherwise associated with each other automatically by the broadcasters and or by a viewer. The viewers may then be able to view both broadcasts of the event side by side. In embodiments providing for viewing of multiple broadcasts simultaneously simultaneous viewing may involve 1 displaying one broadcast beside another i.e. a divided screen 2 toggling between broadcasts 3 picture in picture type broadcast 4 any other method of displaying multiple broadcasts and or 5 any combination thereof. Simultaneous viewing of multiple broadcasts may be provided for 1 by the viewing LB App i.e. the broadcasts may be sent to the viewer separately and combined by the local LB application 2 by a broadcasting LB App i.e. the LB App of the broadcasters who has linked his broadcast to one or more other broadcasts may combine the videos and send them as a single video stream 3 by a LB App Server i.e. an LB App server may receive each broadcast separately combine them and transmit the combined videos as a single video stream to the viewing LB Apps.

According to further embodiments a LB App may be adapted to broadcast a live broadcast via multiple SNS simultaneously. In such embodiments an LB App may be yet further adapted to aggregate data regarding contacts viewers and feedback and display the data to the user in an aggregated form possibly including indications of the source of data.

The present invention can be practiced by employing conventional tools methodology and components. Accordingly the details of such tools component and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be recognized that the present invention might be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth.

In the description and claims of embodiments of the present invention each of the words comprise include and have and forms thereof are not necessarily limited to members in a list with which the words may be associated.

Only exemplary embodiments of the present invention and but a few examples of its versatility are shown and described in the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concept as expressed herein.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

