---

title: Systems and methods determining a merchant persona
abstract: The method of processing an analysis cycle to determine interest merchants may include selecting a seed merchant relevant to a topic interest, identifying consumers that have completed a transaction with the seed merchant to generate a list of identified consumers, determining merchants visited by the identified consumers, scoring all the merchants based on network connectivity, activity, and merchant over-index, updating the seed merchant in response to the list of scored merchants relative to a scoring threshold, and scoring the list of identified consumers based on the number of distinct merchants in transaction and over-indexing. Additionally, the method may further comprise producing a list of updated interest merchants and a list of updated identified consumers, where the updated interest merchants and the updated identified consumers are relevant to the topic interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361627&OS=09361627&RS=09361627
owner: AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES COMPANY, INC.
number: 09361627
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130104
---
This application is a continuation of claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 715 792 filed on Dec. 14 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AN ANALYSIS CYCLE TO DETERMINE INTEREST MERCHANTS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 715 770 filed on Dec. 14 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS DETERMINING A MERCHANT PERSONA. The 792 and 770 applications each claim priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 610 461 filed on Mar. 13 2012 and entitled GENERATING MERCHANT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CONSUMERS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 646 778 filed on May 14 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TAILORED MARKETING BASED ON FILTERING and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 700 850 filed on Sep. 13 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AN ANALYSIS CYCLE TO DETERMINE INTEREST MERCHANTS. All of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present disclosure generally relates to filtering and more particularly to processing an analysis cycle to determine interest merchants.

With the proliferation of the Internet as well as the growing popularity of mobile communication devices marketplaces in which deals e.g. offers are exchanged e.g. purchased and or sold have grown over time. This deals marketplace has grown quickly but has encountered a number of challenges. For example offers are usually poorly tailored to consumers e.g. these offers are irrelevant or less relevant to consumers which may lead many consumers to opt out of an option to receive such offers and or a tendency of consumers to tune out or ignore offers that are received. Attempts to tailor offers to general interests e.g. sports or automotive may be too generic to generate a response from a consumer. Furthermore recommendations of merchants to consumers based on generic interests or poorly tailored information results in the recommendations having lower creditability and being ignored or not valued. It would therefore be advantageous to have a system in which one or more merchants are able to accurately tailor relevant offers to one or more consumers. Likewise it would be advantageous to have a system in which merchant recommendations are more accurately determined and provided to the consumers.

The present disclosure includes a system method and or article of manufacture collectively systems for processing an analysis cycle to determine interest merchants. In various embodiments the method may comprise selecting seed merchant relevant to a topic interest identifying consumers that have completed a transaction with the seed merchant to generate a list of identified consumers determining merchants e.g. all merchants visited by the identified consumers scoring the merchants based on at least one of network connectivity activity and merchant over index where the scoring generates a list of scored merchants updating the seed merchant in response to the list of scored merchants relative to a scoring threshold and scoring the list of identified consumers based on at least one of a number of distinct merchants in transaction and over indexing. In various embodiments the method may further comprise determining whether to perform a second analysis cycle in response to a turnover index. Additionally the method may further comprise producing a list of updated interest merchants and a list of updated identified consumers where the updated interest merchants and the updated identified consumers are relevant to the topic interest.

In various embodiments a group of boost consumers may also be determined. The group of boost consumers may be determined by evaluating consumer transactions across a consumer database and retrieving consumers that have transactions with two or more distinct merchants. The determination of boost consumers may be included in and broaden the step of determining all the merchants visited by the identified consumers.

In various embodiments the systems are capable of providing recommendations. The systems may be capable of determining a plurality of personas for a first plurality merchants. The plurality of personas may be based on predetermined activates transaction information from transaction accounts and or any other suitable data source e.g. social data . The systems may allow a user to select a persona from the plurality of personas. Based on the selection the system may determine a subset of total merchants associated with the selected persona and recommend at least a portion of the subset of merchants based on the selected persona.

The system may also allow a user to provide a preference in addition to the selected persona. The preference may further define the subset of merchants or a portion of the subset of merchants. In various embodiments the recommending may be adjusted by any suitable factors such as for example time of day location channel and or the like.

The persona may be defined by at least one of a hobby and activity. That hobby or activity may not be related to the user but may be of interest to the user as a way to try a new hobby or activity. The system may further refine merchants associated with a persona based on transaction information and user information.

In various embodiments the system may be capable of ranking the subset of merchants associated with the selected persona. The system may rank the subset of merchants in any suitable fashion. For example the ranking may be defined by a plurality of offers associated with the subset of merchants. A first subset of the plurality of offers may comprise a first redemption channel and a second subset of the plurality of offers may comprise a second redemption channel. The ranking may be based on or adjusted by the first redemption channel and or the second redemption channel. For example the first redemption channel may require no additional action from the user to receive a benefit and the second redemption channel may require an additional action from the user to receive the benefit. As such the system may rank the first redemption channel higher than the second redemption channel to promote benefits that are easy for the user to receive. Benefits may include any suitable benefit or reward such as for example a monetary credit e.g. a statement credit instant discount or rebate and or the like or loyalty points.

In various embodiments the system may be capable of analyzing the transaction information from the transaction accounts where the transaction accounts are associated with the first plurality of merchants. Based on this analysis the system may determine a second plurality of merchants associated with the transaction information. The second plurality of merchants may also be selected based on the transaction information and a SEED merchant. The plurality of total merchants may also comprise the first plurality of merchants and the second plurality of merchants.

The present disclosure generally relates to filtering and more particularly to tailored marketing to consumers based on filtering. The detailed description of various embodiments herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings which show the exemplary embodiments by way of illustration. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented. Moreover any of the functions or steps may be outsourced to or performed by one or more third parties. Furthermore any reference to singular includes plural embodiments and any reference to more than one component may include a singular embodiment.

Transaction data and network connectivity of both merchants and consumers may be analyzed to generate an interest score for a merchant on a topic at a granular level. The granular level analysis is able to focus on specific topics instead of simply general topics. For example a granular level of analysis can score the relevancy of merchants for topics such as baseball or tennis versus simply determining that a merchant is related to sports generally. Further such a granular level of analysis is capable of capturing a merchant s network specializing in the specific topic. The specific topic scoring and network analysis can be used to create more relevant consumer interactions by having more relevant results. In accordance with various embodiments systems and methods are disclosed for identifying consumers and merchants in a systematic automated unsupervised manner without the need to interview consumers and based on initial meaningful input.

In general an item e.g. a merchant and or an offer may be tailored to a consumer based upon a recommender system. In various embodiments the recommender system e.g. a collaborative filtering algorithm an interest analyzer and or the like may identify items that are relevant to one or more consumers and or one or more merchants. For example a recommender system may assign a score to one or more items where the score may be based on information such as a consumer profile a transaction history associated with a consumer social data e.g. data associated with a social media channel such as FOURSQUARE FACEBOOK TWITTER and the like demographic data clickstream data consumer feedback data merchant profile merchant transaction history and the like. Thus a score may identify relevant items based upon a variety of information associated with a consumer and or with a merchant. Moreover in various embodiments an item may be tailored to a consumer based on a merchant s needs e.g. that the merchant is interested in rewarding existing loyal consumers and or that the merchant would like to acquire new consumers . In other embodiments an item may be tailored to a consumer based on a consumer s needs. Further still in various embodiments an item may be tailored to a particular consumer based upon a business rule such as for example that it is a holiday that it is a particular time of day that the consumer is traveling that the item is associated with a merchant who is some distance away and or near to from the consumer s location that the consumer has indicated a preference not to receive the item e.g. the consumer has given the item a thumbs down and the like.

As used herein a merchant may be any person or entity capable of providing a service or an item. A merchant may distribute the item in any way for example by exchanging the item for payment. The merchant may be capable of accepting the payment through any suitable payment channel including traditional payment channels including for example POS terminals online payments terminals transaction account networks and the like. The merchant may also accept payment through non traditional payment terminals including for example social media channels person to person payments. Further information about person to person payments is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 540 216 entitled Systems and Methods for Transferring Value via a Social Network which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In various embodiments and with reference to an analysis cycle system and method may be any system or method for associating or characterizing items consumers and or merchants. For example system may be configured to associate items consumers or merchants with a persona or a specific interest. System may comprise a process of receiving an input seed of a topic interest A processing the input seed through various steps B E and generating interest merchants and enthusiast consumers. An interest merchant may be a merchant determined to be sufficiently active and or related to the topic of interest. An interest merchant group may be determined by a combination of one or more groupings which will be described in greater detail below. For example initially a list of initial merchants may be retrieved from a merchant database where a merchant is typically included as a result of a keyword association. Small merchants that were removed from the initial merchant list may be reinstated if the small merchants have sufficient consumer activity. Merchants from a consumer booster merchant list may also be included. The merchants on the consumer booster merchant list may be added if those merchants have sufficient connectivity to specific topic related consumers to be deemed an interest merchant. For example consumer booster merchants may be merchants that score higher than a threshold value.

With respect to Step A of initial aspects of generating a list of interest merchants and enthusiast consumers include determining an initial seed. The initial seed or search input may include an industry code one or more specific merchants items offers behaviors transaction information and or keywords cumulatively referred to as SEED Merchants . The examples discussed below present various recommendations based on SEED Merchants however those skilled in the art will appreciate that after reading this application a SEED Customer may also be used. The SEED Merchants are used to identify consumers that have past transactions with the SEED merchants in order to generate a list of identified consumers. The list of identified consumers is used to retrieve a list of merchants visited by the identified consumers Step B . The list of merchants may include SEED merchants and non SEED merchants. A time limitation may be included for either the list of identified consumers or the list of merchants. For example the searches may be limited to transactions occurring within the past 6 months or the past 12 months. Limiting the transaction time period maintains the relevancy of the results to current offerings.

Analysis cycle may further comprise merchant scoring Step C the merchants in the list of merchants. The merchant scoring facilitates filtering the list of merchants down to appropriate topic interest merchants based on a selected topic thereby generating a scored merchant list. The scoring may be based on network connectivity activity and merchant over index. The scoring may take into account common consumers and various connectivity metrics.

In Step D the scored merchant list may then be reduced by removing low scoring merchants in order to focus the scored merchant list on the selected topic. In various embodiments merchants may be removed based on a scoring threshold within a percentage of the scored merchants or set number of total merchants. For example the scoring threshold may be implemented to remove merchants below the scoring threshold from the scored merchant list. In another example the process may include keeping the top N merchants and removing the rest from the scored merchant list. In yet another example the percentage criterion may include keeping a set percentage e.g. 50 . In a further example the percentage criterion may include keeping all merchants within a percentage of the top merchant score for example all merchants within 75 of the top merchants score.

In various embodiments and with reference to Step E analysis cycle may include scoring the merchants in the scored merchant list based on a number of distinct merchants and over indexing. In operation analysis cycle quantifies a customer s enthusiasm for a particular interest. More particularly analysis cycle considers the number of distinct merchants where a particular customer shops e.g. transacts with and the merchant strength of each transacting merchant. The merchant strength or over indexing noted above is the ratio of customers with one or more transactions at a given merchant compared to the baseline population of customers. A larger ratio indicates that the merchant provides items that are more relevant to the particular item or interest e.g. the merchant sells more goods and or services that are related to a SEED merchant . For example if customer A and customer B both shop for martial arts supplies and customer A shops at a merchant with a strength of 100 and customer B shops at a merchant with a strength of 25 analysis cycle will assign more points or weight to customer A s spending behavior e.g. transactions with respect to the particular merchant and the analysis as a whole when identifying boost merchants. In response to the list of merchants being generated at Step F the analysis cycle can either be repeated or the finalized merchant list may be used in various other processes.

In accordance with various embodiments illustrates an example of the described analysis cycle for one cycle . The various exemplary values and combinations will be used below to add further disclosure to the process. In the example the SEED Merchants are two keywords coffee and Company A. The keywords generate a list of merchant that are relevant to the SEED Merchant. The result in the example include Company A Store Company B Company C and Company D. At Step A the Identify Consumers table shows a list of identified consumers who have past transactions with the SEED Merchants input. In the example the identified consumers are Ben Jim Boris Monique Anthony and Kendell. At Step B other merchants visited by the identified consumers are retrieved from a transaction database. Here the identified consumer Ben visited Company E in addition to the merchants identified based on the SEED Merchant. The identified consumer Jim also visited Company E and Company F in addition to the merchants identified based on the SEED Merchant. A list of merchants is compiled using both the SEED Merchants and the additional merchants of Company E and Company F.

In various embodiments the list of merchants can be scored in different ways such as illustrated in Steps C C. Step C illustrates a table of merchants scored based on connectivity. The connectivity of a merchant may be determined based on the number of distinct interest merchants connected to the merchant via common consumers. This score may be a z score or normalized score a given value the number of distinct merchants connected by a common customer subtract the average score the average distinct merchants connected by a common customer then divide by the standard deviation. For example in the context of Company B the number of distinct merchants connected by a common customer may be 2 the average distinct merchants connected by a common customer may be 1 and the standard deviation may be 0.816497. As a result the z score is 2 1 0.816497 1.22. The z score provides multiple measures on a common scale e.g. activity or connectively of large and small merchant can be compared on the same scale . The z score may also standardize measurements across multiple interests. For example the z score provides threshold values that may be applied to interests with different levels. Golf is an interest where golf enthusiast often shop at multiple golf merchants. A higher number of connectivity is used to separate golf merchants from non golf merchants. In contrast amateur piloting is an interest where amateur pilots often shop at only a few aviation merchants. A lower number of connectivity may be used to separate amateur pilot merchants from non amateur pilot merchants. Applying a z score in both situations enables a threshold value to move with interest since both averages and standard deviations are taken into account when calculating the z score. The threshold value may be based on normalized values and therefore adjusts to the type of interest being calculated.

Step C illustrates a table of merchants scored based on activity. The activity of a merchant may be determined by how active the merchant s consumers are at other interest merchants. For example Company C has an activity score of 2 because its consumer Monique was active with two transactions at other interest merchants two transactions at Company B . By determining a z score for Company C e.g. 0.15 the system ensures that the activity or connectivity comparison is evaluated on the same scale.

Step C illustrates a table of merchants scored based on a strength index. The strength index of a merchant may be determined by comparing the percentage of the identified consumers visiting the merchant and the percentage of a group of control consumers visiting the merchant. In the illustrated table the column of Baseline with ROC represents a percentage of a group of control consumers visiting the merchant. For example 2.5 of the control consumer group has transactions with Company A. Therefore the strength index of Company A is that 50 of the identified consumers have transactions with Company A and 2.5 of the general group has Company A transactions yielding a strength index of 20.0 50 2.5 .

Step D illustrates a step of processing an updated merchant list. A merchant score can be compiled by summing the merchant scores of connectivity activity and strength as disclosed in Steps C C C. Various merchants can be removed or added to the interest merchant list based on the individual merchant score. For example merchants with an aggregate score less than 3 may be removed. Merchants with a strength index of greater than 10 may be added to the interest merchant list.

In addition to scoring merchants the identified consumers may also be scored. As noted above the customer s enthusiasm for an interest may be calculated. For example Ben and Shurti each had at least one transaction at two seed merchants e.g. Company A Company B and one new added merchant Company E . The customer s enthusiasm for the identified interest or the average merchant strength for each of Ben and Shurti may be determined by finding the average strength index for all of the merchants used by Ben or Shurti e.g. 20 Company A 100 Company B 30 Company E 3 50 . This value allows the system to quantify how strong a particular consumer s activity is in a particular interest as compared to other consumers. In this way the system may consider the strength of the particular consumer s activity when making recommendations or providing tailored offers.

After an analysis cycle is completed and merchants are added and removed a determination may be made whether to conduct another analysis cycle or output the finalized lists. In the example the determination of whether to conduct a second cycle is based on the turnover of the lists. In this example one merchant Company E was added and one merchant Company D was removed. Combining for a turnover of two of the four initial merchants resulting in a turnover score of 0.50. A turnover score threshold may be used in the determination. For example a turnover score threshold of 0.05 is less than the turnover score of 0.50 in the example and so another analysis cycle will be conducted. The different in the second cycle is that the identified consumer list and the interest merchant list are populated from the results of the first analysis cycle.

In order to provide a better understanding of the disclosed system and method each of the steps in the analysis cycle will be described in greater detail. In various embodiments generating an initial list of SEED Merchants begins with selecting the initial seed or search input which may include an industry code one or more specific merchants or keywords. The selected keywords may be used to generate an initial list of merchants from various data sources. In accordance with various embodiments the analysis cycle may access merchant and consumer data relating to spend data transaction information for purchases of items non transactional data such as social media loyalty account activity location data internet usage tracking data user profile data e.g. demographic information and other suitable data e.g. time of day season of year and the like .

In various embodiments and with respect to baseball is the topic interest and baseball keywords may be used to create an initial list of merchants 2643 merchants in this example . The initial list of merchants may be filtered to generate a list of active merchants by matching transactions records of a random sample from a consumer database with the initial merchants. In the example a random sample of 5 million consumers from a consumer database having 20 million consumers is used. By cross referencing the 5 million consumer sample with the 2643 merchants it is determined that 937 merchants have a least one transaction with a consumer from the random sample. The timeframe of relevant transactions may be a design variable as well for example two years as described in .

The list of active merchants may be further filtered by deriving whether the merchant conducts sufficient consumer activity with distinct consumers. For example and with reference to active merchants with a limited record of distinct spending consumers such as less than 11 are removed from the merchant list. This threshold may provide other relevant information to the system including for example whether an identified merchant is still in business whether an identified merchant accepts a particular form of payment e.g. an American Express Card and or the like.

In various embodiments and with reference to an additional filtering step may include calculating a preliminary merchant score in order to determine the most connected and active merchants remaining in the merchant list. In various embodiments the preliminary merchant score is the sum of a merchant network connectivity MNC value and a merchant network activity MNA value. The MNC value represents the average number of other Interest Merchants shopped at by an interest merchant s consumers. A specific merchant s MNC value may be calculated as follows 

Furthermore the MNA value represents the notice of transactions made by an interest merchant s consumers at other merchants. A specific merchant s MNA value may be calculated as follows where 1 and where 1 where Ci is Specific Consumer i Mj is Specific Merchant j and Tint is Set of Interest Transactions.

In various embodiments and with reference to in response to the merchants being ranked by the preliminary merchant score a preliminary merchant score threshold level is set. The preliminary merchant score may be used to determine which merchants may have done business with a booster consumer. A booster consumer is a consumer that is active and connected to the original interest keyword. For example a booster consumer may be any consumer that conducted transactions at two or more distinct interest merchants. The booster consumer can help facilitate finding other relevant interest merchants that may not have been included in the initial merchant list. The other relevant interest merchants may have been left off the initial list for a variety of reasons such as an unrelated business name. In the example illustrated in the merchants with a higher preliminary score are well connected to other interest merchants and the merchants with a lower preliminary score are not well connected to other interest merchants. The bottom 10 of merchants may be removed as being insufficient connected to warrant inclusion in the remaining analysis.

As illustrated in a list of booster consumers may be generated by cross referencing the remaining interest merchants and a consumer database. The consumer database may include the entire consumer database from which the random consumer sample was selected. The cross referencing may return all consumers which meet criteria such as transactions with at least two distinct interest merchants or any other suitable rule. The example in shows 0.10 million booster consumers from the cross referencing of the entire consumer database of 20 million consumers.

After a list of booster consumer is generated non keyword merchants may be added to the interest merchant list. In various embodiments and with reference to new additions may be made to the current list of interest merchants based on the updated consumer list which includes the original consumer list and newly included booster consumers. All transactions including for example the transactions from the consumers on the updated consumer list are initially retrieved and a list of merchants is formed. Typically and as illustrated by the list of merchants is much larger than the pending interest merchant list. For example 763 317 non keyword merchants are included with the 480 keyword interest merchants.

In various embodiments and with reference to a merchant interest network score MINS facilitates selecting the appropriate interest merchants from the large list of keyword and non keyword merchants. Merchants with a higher MINS are over indexed on consumers have a topic interest such as baseball. In various embodiments MINS can be calculated as follows 

The MINS of a merchant can be used to filter the merchant list based on various criteria. The determination of whether a MINS is sufficient for selection can vary by topic. In various embodiments the selection may be a MINS threshold value an industry type a combination thereof and or any other suitable threshold selection. By way of example and with reference to an overall MINS threshold value may be set at 29.1. All the merchants with a MINS value exceeding 29.1 are selected regardless of the industry type. Further if the merchant is part of an appropriate industry type then acceptable MINS value may be lower for the merchant associated with the appropriate industry type. For example if the merchant s industry type is related to sports and the MINS value is at least 27.1 then all merchants matching both criteria e.g. sports and a MINS value of at least 27.1 are selected. Merchants with an associated appropriate industry type e.g. sports and a MINS value of less than 27.1 are eliminated. As such the system may be configured to provide tiered filtering based on various factors. In this way a merchant with several relevant factors may be included even though the strength or value of a particular factor may be lower than a threshold for an individual factor.

In various embodiments and with reference to a final merchant score can be calculated for the filtered merchant list. The final merchant score may be a sum of the preliminary merchant score and a normalized MINS. An example of final merchant scores is provided in .

After various calculations of the analysis cycle the interest merchant group is determined by a combination of three groupings. First a list of initial merchants is retrieved from a merchant database where a merchant is typically included in the results due to keyword association. Merchants with a low final merchant score may be removed from the list. Second small merchants that were removed from the initial merchant list may be reinstated if the small merchants have sufficient consumer activity. Third merchants from the consumer booster merchant list may be included. The merchants on the consumer booster merchant list have sufficient connectivity to specific topic related consumers to be deemed an interest merchant.

In addition to merchant scoring the consumers used in the analysis cycle may also be scored. In accordance with various embodiments and with reference to a consumer score provides insight into consumers that are active in a specific topic based on transactions associated with the consumers. In various embodiments a consumer score measures consumer spend activity among interest merchants combined with an average MINS per consumer. The consumer spend activity calculates the number of distinct interest merchants where the consumer has conducted a transaction. A specific time period of activity may be selected to control the scope of the analysis. One exemplary determination of the number of distinct interest merchants may be calculated as follows 1 where is Specific Consumer is Specific Merchant and is Set of Interest Transactions.

After the consumer score is calculated by summing the consumer spend activity and the average MINS the consumer score may be compared to a consumer threshold value. The consumer is removed from the boost consumer list if the consumer score is less than the consumer threshold value. In one example the consumer threshold value may be set at 0.85. provides an example of consumer scoring and illustrates how consumer scoring can distinguish between a baseball enthusiast and baseball non enthusiast. 

More specifically and with reference to the threshold value establishes a benchmark that allows consumers to be ranked. Where the consumer is above the threshold the consumer is considered a baseball enthusiast. Where the consumer is below the threshold the consumer is considered a baseball non enthusiast. This delineation or grouping of consumer allows the system to tailor promotions and or offer to specific groups or population e.g. baseball enthusiast and baseball non enthusiast or use the activities of a group or population to understand the interests spending patterns and other behaviors of the group e.g. baseball enthusiast and baseball non enthusiast or consumers that may be placed in the group based on future spending activity or other behaviors. For example the system may tailor offers based on a specific category e.g. baseball or spending or activity for an identified group. The system may identify and provide offers to the group by any suitable method including for example the system and methods described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 857 389 filed Aug. 16 2010 and entitled System and Method for E Mail Based Rewards which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

In various embodiments and with reference to the analysis cycle can be repeated multiple times until a predetermined limitation is reached. The predetermined limitation may be a set number of iterations to be completed. In various embodiments the predetermined limitation may be reached once a turnover index falls below a specific threshold. In various embodiments turnover index number of merchants added number of merchants dropped number of merchants starting in the cycle. The turnover index indicates the impact of another cycle on the interest merchant list. A lower turnover index value implies that undergoing another cycle in the process is likely to have a minimal impact on the interest merchant list.

The threshold associated with the turnover index may be any suitable value established by the system. The threshold associated with the turnover index may also be established as a function of the change of the turnover index between iterations. For example where the percentage of changes or one or more iterations is less than a predetermined value e.g. 0.050 or a percentage changes e.g. 20 the system may automatically indicate that the turnover index is sufficiently low. This indication that the turnover index is sufficiently low indicates that all or the vast majority of interest merchants have been identified. For example in the example illustrated in as changes to the turnover index become turnover index decreases over seven cycles until it reaches 0.042 e.g. below a predetermined value such as for example 0.050 .

In various embodiments and as discussed herein a SEED Customer may be used to one or more interest merchants. Information or characteristics of a customer may be used to determine an appropriate SEED Customer for a selected interest. The system may analyze demographic information about a customer social data associated with a customer transaction information associated with a customer or any other suitable information associated with a customer may be used to select a customer as a SEED Customer. For example an interest such as for example 20 something restaurants may be identified. Based on the interest the system may analyze any suitable data e.g. social data transaction data demographic data and or the like associated with customers. The system may identify one of more customer as SEED customers based on the data associated with the customers. Based on the one or more SEED Customers the system may identify transactions with merchants that would be associated with the interest. Those merchant could be analyzed as discussed herein to create a list or pool of interest merchants that would be suitably recommendable for the identified interest and the identified customer group e.g. 20 something customers .

Merchants often desire to select specific consumers for providing offers as providing offers that are relevant to consumers may result in a higher rate of response. In various embodiments an assessment of an offer s relevance to a consumer may be determined or adjusted based on a selection of the consumer. For example the previously described analysis to determine interest enthusiasts and interest merchants is one manner of determining the relevance of specific merchants to specific consumers. Typically recommendation processes and methods are designed to inform a consumer of offers or merchants that may be of interest based on prior transactions and user information. However there may be times where a user is looking for a merchant out of the norm. The consumer may be going to dinner with people having different interests. The consumer may also be looking to try something vastly different. Whatever the case may be often times a consumer will seek recommendations for such unfamiliar merchants. In various embodiments consumer information and general merchant transaction data may be processed in order to provide recommendations for various categories or personas. With reference to a consumer may request recommendations for family friendly merchants or may request recommendations that fit a Rock Star persona.

In various embodiments certain account holder attributes and merchant attributes may be used to determine the persona of a merchant. For example the systems and methods described in greater detail below may be configured to capture and characterize consumer data in one or more personas. For example demographic data or transaction information of a consumer may be initially analyzed to determine what consumer fit predefined personas. The predefined personas may be any lifestyle interest hobby activity and or the like. These initial consumers may be identified as the interest consumers used to identify interest merchants as discussed above. Spending patterns and other behaviors of the interest consumers may be used to initial create and then refine an associated list of merchants for each persona.

Persona may be defined in any suitable fashion. Personas may be predetermined based on known demographic data based on spend data from interest consumers or based on a combination of interest consumer data and predetermined data. For example a Hipster persona may include demographic data typically associated with a hipster that may be further augmented or adjusted based on spend data associated with interest consumers. The interest consumers may be selected and or associated with a particular persona based on the predefined demographic data or transaction information that indicates that the interest consumer could if the Hipster persona.

Once the persona has been created and populated with associated merchants that are relevant to the persona the persona may be stored such that it is searchable presentable and or selectable by a consumer. The consumer selecting the persona may be any suitable consumer. Typically the consumer will be a non interest consumer that is seeking a recommendation for an item that the consumer would not normally seek. By selecting a particular persona e.g. a Hipster persona the consumer may be presenting with recommendations for various items e.g. restaurants leisure activities goods services and or the like . The recommendations may be tailored based on predetermined inputs or preferences e.g. a search that lead to the initial persona selection or dynamically determined inputs e.g. inputs from the consumer in real time and after the initial selection of the persona .

Based on these selections and inputs the system provides recommendations for various merchants that have been previously associated with the persona. For example and with reference to the Hipster persona may result in recommendations for merchants that are trending upwards in loyalty have been tagged with retro and clever are at a price range of and are frequented by account holders in the age range of 19 34. Similarly a Starving Artist persona may result in recommendations for merchants that are trending upwards in loyalty tagged with good value are at a price range of or and are frequented by account holders with an income less than 100 000 or other range. The trending characteristics helps differentiate between data that is recent versus data that is 6 12 months old or older.

As a part of persona recommendations a consumer may be presented not only with a merchant that fits a persona such as a restaurant but also with various types of merchants that meet the same persona. In various embodiments and with reference to a persona categorization method may include generating a list of consumers who meet a certain interest topic such as yoga. The method may include finding a list of restaurants at which these selected consumers have dined and calculating what percentage of each restaurant s consumers are the selected account holders e.g. yoga enthusiasts . Further the method may include removing various restaurants from the list that do not meet a threshold for total number of selected consumers rank ordering the restaurants by percentage of selected consumers e.g. yoga enthusiasts and generating a final list of restaurants categorized by the certain interest. In addition to restaurants the method may also be applied to retailers and other merchants frequented by a sufficient number and percentage of consumers to qualify as having a persona . Moreover a merchant may have more than one persona depending on the overall consumer type.

As described herein recommendations or offers may be ranked using any suitable factors. For example a persona may comprise a plurality of recommendations. These recommendations may be ranked and or presented to a consumer using any suitable factors based on the channel being accessed by the consumer. The channel may also contribute through the ranking. For example the system presenting the personas may also monitor activity of a user associated with the channel such that the system understands that the particular consumer s tendencies in response to the consumer accessing the channel. For example if a threshold percentage e.g. 90 of consumer activity in a particular channel is related to a particular item e.g. restaurant reconditions buy one get one offers item discounts and or the like the system may adjust the ranking of identified offers for a particular persona based on the channel.

The system may also consider whether a restaurant recommendation includes an associated reward offer or discount. For example the system may identify for recommendation 20 restaurants associated with a particular persona. The system may then identify that a certain number of those restaurants also offer a discount that can be associated with the recommendation. The system may rank recommendations with associated offers higher than recommendations without offers to encourage a customer to use the system or take advantage of a particular offer.

The system may also rank or sort recommendations based on the sponsoring entity. For example if a particular merchant is associated with or partnered with the system the system may elevate the ranking of a recommendation for the partner merchant. Similarly the system may consider whether an offer is sponsored by a merchant or sponsored by an entity associated with the system and rank the offer based on that factor accordingly. The system may also consider a reward associated with the offer as part of the ranking of various offers. For example the system may identify that a certain subset of offers include a reward of loyalty points and others include a reward of a discount e.g. a statement credit authorization credit instant rebate discount POS discount and or the like . If the consumer is not a loyalty account member the system may rank offers that provide a discount higher than offers that provide loyalty point rewards. The system may also rank offers that provide loyalty points higher to encourage the consumer to join the loyalty program.

In various embodiments of recommendation processes and operations social data may be used to determine how an item is displayed to a consumer or to modify a predetermined ranking. Such data may be used to adjust or revise persona recommendations as previously described. The social data may be incorporated to generate a more robust timely persona to include in the persona recommendations. Furthermore in accordance with various embodiments social data may also be incorporated into recommendation engines for generating recommendations for a consumer based on the consumer s transaction data and or social data. In various embodiments social data alone may be sufficient to generate specific consumer recommendations.

For example in various embodiments an offer presented through FACEBOOK may comprise or be associated with criteria e.g. keywords metadata and or the like . Social data from FACEBOOK may be captured and compared to the criteria. Where there is a match between the criteria and the social data the offer may be ranked higher or be displayed more prominently based on the match. Business rules may be employed to define how a match is determined. The business rules may require that the social data partially match the criteria. The business rules may require that the social data exactly match the criteria. An exact match may be required to adjust the ranking of an offer where the offer was previously ranked based on other data associated with the consumer to ensure that the social data adjusts the ranking in a manner that is relevant and desirable for the consumer.

For example company A may have a FACEBOOK page that a consumer can like. Another party may also have a FACEBOOK page that is critical of company A that a consumer can like. If the consumer likes company A s FACEBOOK page that social data may be used to promote or adjust the rankings of an offer from company A based on the direct match. However if the consumer likes the FACEBOOK page that is critical of company A the social data may be ignored with respect to the ranking of an offer from company A or may be used to lower the ranking of the offer from company A.

Rankings of offers may also be adjusted based on other types of social data such as consumer broadcasts. For example a consumer using TWITTER may broadcast tweets comprising hashtags or particular keywords e.g. baseball without a hashtag or . The hashtag or keyword data may be captured and used to adjust offers associated with the hashtag or keyword. The hashtag or keyword may be compared to criteria associated with the offer. The hashtag or keyword may also be evaluated to identify a consumer s interest hobby or preference. This knowledge of the consumer may affect the ranking of particular offers associated with the interest hobby or preference e.g. if an offer is relevant to a particular consumer the ranking of the offer may be increased .

Accordingly and with reference to an exemplary system for tailoring or recommending an item e.g. an offer a merchant a restaurant etc. to a consumer is disclosed. In various embodiments system may comprise an item database an item eligibility system a scoring system a real time system network a web client a fulfillment system and or a merchant system .

An item database may comprise hardware and or software capable of storing data. For example an item database may comprise a server appliance running a suitable server operating system e.g. MICROSOFT INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES or IIS and having database software e.g. ORACLE installed thereon. In various embodiments an item database may store one or more items such as one or more offers associated for example with one or more merchants information associated with one or more merchants and the like.

An item eligibility system may comprise hardware and or software capable of determining whether a consumer is eligible to receive an item and or information related to an item e.g. an offer information associated with a merchant . For example in various embodiments an item eligibility system may determine that a consumer is ineligible to receive an offer based upon a partnership and or an affiliation associated with a transaction account of the consumer e.g. an AMERICAN EXPRESS DELTA SKYMILES consumer may be ineligible to receive an offer on an airline that is not DELTA AIRLINES .

A scoring system may comprise hardware and or software capable of scoring an item. For example in various embodiments as described herein a scoring system may analyze a variety of consumer information to score an item such as an offer and or a merchant. Moreover in certain embodiments scoring system may comprise a variety of closed loop or internal data associated with a consumer e.g. as described herein .

A real time system may comprise hardware and or software capable of adjusting the relevance of an item e.g. a scored offer and or merchant based upon a variety of criteria such as one or more merchant criteria one or more business rules and the like. For example as described herein a real time system may adjust the relevance of an offer based upon a merchant interest in acquiring new consumers a merchant interest in rewarding loyal consumers a holiday a particular time of day that the consumer is traveling that the offer is associated with a merchant who is some distance away from and or near to the consumer s location that the consumer has indicated a preference not to receive an offer e.g. the consumer has given the offer a thumbs down and the like.

A network may include any electronic communications system or method which incorporates hardware and or software components e.g. a cloud or cloud computing system as described herein . Communication among parties via network may be accomplished through any suitable communication channels such as for example a telephone network an extranet an intranet Internet point of interaction device point of sale device personal digital assistant e.g. IPHONE PALM PILOT BLACKBERRY cellular phone kiosk etc. online communications satellite communications off line communications wireless communications transponder communications local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN networked or linked devices keyboard mouse and or any suitable communication or data input modality. Moreover although the system is frequently described herein as being implemented with TCP IP communications protocols the system may also be implemented using IPX APPLETALK IP 6 NetBIOS OSI any tunneling protocol e.g. IPsec SSH or any number of existing or future protocols. If network is in the nature of a public network such as the Internet it may be advantageous to presume network to be insecure and open to eavesdroppers. Specific information related to the protocols standards and application software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the art and as such need not be detailed herein. See for example Dilip Naik Internet Standards and Protocols 1998 Java 2 Complete various authors Sybex 1999 Deborah Ray and Eric Ray Mastering HTML 4.0 1997 and Loshin TCP IP Clearly Explained 1997 and David Gourley and Brian Totty HTTP The Definitive Guide 2002 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The various system components may be independently and separately or collectively suitably coupled to network via data links which include for example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over the local loop as is typically used in connection with standard modem communication cable modem Dish networks ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or various wireless communication methods see e.g. Gilbert Held Understanding Data Communications 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference. It is noted that network may be implemented variously such as for example as an interactive television ITV network. Moreover this disclosure contemplates the use sale or distribution of any goods services or information over any network having similar functionality described herein.

As used herein a cloud or cloud computing may describe a model for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing may include location independent computing whereby shared servers provide resources software and data to computers and other devices on demand. For more information regarding cloud computing see the NIST s National Institute of Standards and Technology definition of cloud computing at http csrc.nist.gov publications nistpubs 800 145 SP800 145.pdf last visited June 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Web client may include any device e.g. a personal computer a mobile communications device and the like which communicates via any network for example such as those discussed herein. Web client may include one or more browsers or browser applications and or application programs including browser applications comprising Internet browsing software installed within a computing unit or a system to conduct online transactions and or communications. For example in various embodiments web client may include and run MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX GOOGLE CHROME APPLE SAFARI and or any software package available for browsing the Internet.

A computing unit or system may take the form of a computer or set of computers although other types of computing units or systems may be used including tablets laptops notebooks hand held computers personal digital assistants cellular phones smart phones set top boxes workstations computer servers main frame computers mini computers PC servers pervasive computers network sets of computers personal computers such as IPADs IMACs and MACBOOKS kiosks terminals point of sale POS devices and or terminals televisions GPS receivers in dash vehicle displays and or any other device capable of receiving data over a network. The computing unit of the web client may be further equipped with an Internet browser connected to the Internet or an intranet using standard dial up cable DSL or any other Internet protocol known in the art. Transactions originating at a web client may pass through a firewall in order to prevent unauthorized access from users of other networks. Further additional firewalls may be deployed between the varying components of system to further enhance security.

In various embodiments web client may or may not be in direct contact with an application server. For example web client may access the services of an application server through another server and or hardware component which may have a direct or indirect connection to an Internet server. For example web client may communicate with an application server via a load balancer and or a web server. In an exemplary embodiment access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package.

Web client may further include an operating system e.g. WINDOWS NT 95 98 2000 XP VISTA 7 8 CE MOBILE OS2 UNIX Linux SOLARIS MACOS PALMOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers. Web client may be in a home or business environment with access to a network. Web client may implement security protocols such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL and Transport Layer Security TLS . Web client may further implement several application layer protocols including http https ftp and sftp.

A fulfillment system may comprise any hardware and or software capable of fulfilling and or facilitating the fulfillment. For instance a fulfillment system may in various embodiments comprise hardware and or software capable of fulfilling and or facilitating fulfillment of an offer. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 779 734 filed Jul. 18 2007 and entitled Loyalty Incentive Program Using Transaction Cards which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition in various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 857 389 filed Aug. 16 2010 and entitled System and Method for E Mail Based Rewards which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 153 890 filed Jun. 6 2011 and entitled System and Method for Administering Marketing Programs which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 021 327 filed Feb. 4 2011 and entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Location Based Coupon Less Offers to Registered Account holders which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 153 890 filed Jun. 6 2011 and entitled System and Method for Administering Marketing Programs which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 188 693 filed Jul. 22 2011 and entitled System and Method for Coupon Less Product Level Discounts which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 411 281 filed Mar. 2 2012 and entitled System and Method for Providing Coupon Less Discounts Based on a User Broadcasted Message which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various embodiments a fulfillment system may comprise a system such as a system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 439 768 filed Apr. 4 2012 and entitled System and Method for Providing International Coupon Less Discounts which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A merchant reporting system may comprise any hardware and or software capable of generating a report and or providing a report to a merchant. For example in various embodiments a merchant reporting system may generate a report illustrating a ROI received by the merchant as the result of a tailored marketing campaign.

In various embodiments the recommendations and or interests may be configured as an input of an output. For example the recommendations and or interests may be configured as initial inputs to a system that is configured to provide specific tailored offers for individual customers consumers members users and or the like including the system described in U.S. Provisional Application 61 646 778 filed on May 14 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TAILORED MARKETING BASED ON FILTERING hereinafter the 778 Provisional which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The specific tailored offers and or recommendations produced by an appropriate system may also be inputs or SEED Merchants for a recommender system such as the system described in 778 Provisional.

In various embodiments and with reference to a process for tailoring and or recommending a relevant item such as an offer and or merchant to a consumer is described. In addition to the processes described below in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 245 636 filed Sep. 26 2011 and entitled Systems and Methods for Targeting Ad Impressions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented. Similarly in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 172 676 filed Jun. 29 2011 and entitled Spend Based Digital Ad Targeting and Measurement which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented. Further in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 348 432 filed Jan. 11 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods for Digital Spend Based Targeting and Measurement which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented.

Further still in various embodiments and in addition to the processes described below a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 262 filed Dec. 23 2005 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Collaborative Filtering of Account holder Transactions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented. In addition in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 500 492 filed Aug. 8 2006 and entitled System and Method for Predicting Account holder Spending Using Collaborative Filtering which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented.

Further still in various embodiments and in addition to the processes described below a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 610 461 filed Mar. 13 2012 and entitled Generating Merchant Recommendations for Consumers which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented. In addition in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 610 981 filed Mar. 14 2012 and entitled Generating a Consumer Review Using Customized Tags which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented. Moreover in various embodiments a process for tailoring marketing to a consumer as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 610 983 filed Mar. 14 2012 and entitled Transaction Rewards List which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be implemented.

Referring broadly to each of the steps may be performed alone and or in combination with any other step . Accordingly as shown in various embodiments a consumer s eligibility may be assessed step . As described herein an item eligibility system may assess a consumer s eligibility to receive an item such as an offer and or information e.g. a recommendation associated with a merchant. Furthermore a consumer may be ineligible to receive an item for many reasons but to give one example a consumer may be ineligible to receive an item because the consumer holds a branded or partner transaction account e.g. an AMERICAN EXPRESS DELTA SKYMILES account that is associated with a partner and or merchant e.g. DELTA AIRLINES that is unaffiliated with and or a competitor of an item associated with another merchant e.g. SOUTHWEST AIRLINES .

Further in various embodiments a consumer relevance value or score may be determined as described herein e.g. by a scoring system step . For instance in various embodiments a consumer relevance value or CRV may be determined based on content and or an industry associated with one or more items. Similarly in various embodiments a consumer relevance value may be determined based on a collaborative filtering algorithm as described herein. Further in various embodiments a consumer relevance value may be based on either or both of content and or a collaborative filtering algorithm.

Further still in various embodiments a consumer relevance value associated with an item such as an offer and or merchant may be adjusted and or determined based on one or more merchant goals and or one or more business rules e.g. by a real time system step . For example as described herein a consumer relevance value may be adjusted based on a merchant goal to acquire only new consumers tailor existing consumers of the merchant and or tailor all consumers. Equally in various embodiments a consumer relevance value may be adjusted based on a holiday a particular time of day a determination that the consumer is traveling a determination that the item is associated with a merchant who is some distance away and or near to from the consumer s location because the consumer has indicated a preference not to receive the item e.g. the consumer has given the offer a thumbs down and the like.

The phrases consumer customer user account holder account affiliate cardmember or the like may be used interchangeably and shall include any person group entity business organization business software hardware machine and or combination of these and may in various embodiments be associated with a transaction account buy merchant offerings offered by one or more merchants using the account and or be legally designated for performing transactions on the account regardless of whether a physical card is associated with the account. For example a consumer or account affiliate may include a transaction account owner a transaction account user an account affiliate a child account user a subsidiary account user a beneficiary of an account a custodian of an account and or any other person or entity affiliated or associated with a transaction account.

In various embodiments a consumer may receive a tailored offer as described below. A bank may be part of the system but the bank may represent other types of card issuing institutions such as credit card companies card sponsoring companies or third party issuers under contract with financial institutions. It is further noted that other participants may be involved in some phases of the transaction such as an intermediary settlement institution but these participants are not shown.

Phrases and terms similar to business merchant service establishment or SE may be used interchangeably with each other and shall mean any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a merchant may be a grocery store a retail store a restaurant a travel agency a service provider an on line merchant and or the like. In various embodiments a merchant may request payment for goods sold to a consumer or consumer who holds an account with a transaction account issuer.

As used herein terms such as transmit communicate and or deliver may include sending electronic data from one system component to another over a network connection. Additionally as used herein data may include information such as commands queries files data for storage and the like in digital or any other form.

Phrases and terms similar to item may include any good service offer merchant type of merchant demographic data consumer profile data consumer profile type of transaction account transaction account period of time e.g. a period of time a consumer has been a consumer of a transaction account issuer size of wallet share of wallet information and the like. Further in various embodiments an item may comprise an output or result of a collaborative filtering algorithm an algorithm for matching a consumer with a particular interest or set of interests e.g. baseball or yoga to provide a few examples and the like. In various embodiments such an algorithm may be referred to as an interest graph or an interest graphing algorithm. 

As used herein an offer may comprise any data and or information. As described herein an offer may comprise one or more items. In addition an offer may comprise data associated with one or more items also as discussed herein. An offer may further comprise one or more characteristics or metadata. The characteristics or metadata associated with an offer may describe one or more attributes associated with the offer. Further in various embodiments an offer may comprise an offer to purchase good or service offered for sale by a merchant or SE. Similarly in various embodiments an offer may be associated with a merchant or SE.

As used herein record of charge or ROC may comprise a record of a transaction or charge by a consumer with a particular merchant. In various embodiments a ROC may comprise a cumulative value which may indicate a number of total transactions or purchases a consumer has made from a particular merchant. Further in various embodiments a ROC may simply comprise an indication that a consumer has made at least one purchase from a merchant e.g. within a particular time period . For instance where a consumer s transaction history shows that the consumer has made at least one purchase from a merchant e.g. within 12 months a ROC may simply comprise a binary value such as a 1 or a yes. Conversely where a consumer s transaction history indicates that a consumer has not made a purchase from a merchant a ROC may simply comprise a value such as a 0 or a no .

A channel may include any system or method for delivering content and or the content itself. The content may be presented in any form or medium and in various embodiments the content may be delivered electronically and or capable of being presented electronically. For example a channel may comprise a website a uniform resource locator URL a document e.g. a Microsoft Word document a Microsoft Excel document an Adobe pdf document etc. an ebook an emagazine an application or micro application as described below a text message an email and the like. In various embodiments a channel may be hosted or provided by a data partner. Further in various embodiments a channel may comprise a social media channel such as FACEBOOK FOURSQUARE TWITTER and the like.

A consumer profile or consumer profile data may comprise any information or data about a consumer that describes an attribute associated with the consumer e.g. a preference an interest demographic information personally identifying information and the like .

In various embodiments a consumer profile may be based upon a variety of data. For example a consumer profile may be based upon data that is received culled collected and or derived from a variety of sources such as a consumer s transaction history data associated with or available via a consumer s social networking profile e.g. a consumer s FACEBOOK profile data associated with a consumer s physical location and or other publicly and or privately available sources of information about a consumer. In various embodiments a consumer profile may not be based upon such data unless a consumer opts in or requests that such data be used.

Further in various embodiments a consumer profile may be based upon data contributed by a consumer a merchant a third party and or an SE as described below . Such data may comprise for example a consumer s personal information e.g. demographic information a consumer s date of birth a consumer s residence information an address of the consumer s work a specific preference associated with the consumer e.g. a preference for a certain type of vacation such as a preference for a tropical vacation a website in which the consumer is interested and the like. Further a consumer may contribute data towards a consumer profile by way of a form and or questionnaire such as for example a web based form or questionnaire.

With further regard to the types of data which may be contributed to a consumer profile in general any information that a consumer would like to serve as a basis for a consumer profile may be contributed. For instance a consumer profile may comprise location data e.g. data associated with a global positioning system a home address a work address family location data data about a consumer s most shopped or favorite shopping locations data about a consumer s most visited or favorite places data associated with a consumer s favorite websites digital destinations or magazines e.g. blogs news websites shopping websites research websites financial websites etc. personal data e.g. email addresses physical addresses phone numbers age information income information expenses information etc. data associated with a consumer s status or mode of travel e.g. vacation data business data personal data airline data lodging data etc. data associated with a consumer s favorite items e.g. food restaurants groceries electronics music gaming clothing types hobbies fitness etc. and the like.

In addition in various embodiments a consumer profile may include online tracking cookie data web beacon data web tracking data web packet trace data digital fingerprint data clickstream data purchase or transaction history data data entered by a consumer in a web based form data purchased by a merchant about a consumer social networking data banking and or credit card data stock keeping unit SKU data transactional and or budget data coupon data retail data e.g. items purchased wish lists etc. data from third party personal data aggregators search engine data and or any other data which the merchant may have in its possession or to which the merchant may gain access.

In various embodiments a consumer may specify that a consumer profile may be based upon certain data but that the profile should not be based upon other data. For example a consumer may specify that the consumer s profile may be based upon data associated with the consumer s transaction history but may not be based upon data culled from the consumer s social networking profile.

Phrases and terms similar to account transaction account account account number account code and or consumer account may include any account that may be used to facilitate a financial transaction. These accounts may include any device code e.g. one or more of an authorization access code personal identification number PIN Internet code other identification code and or the like number letter symbol digital certificate smart chip digital signal analog signal biometric or other identifier indicia suitably configured to allow the consumer to access interact with or communicate with the system. The account number may optionally be located on or associated with a rewards account charge account credit account debit account prepaid account telephone card embossed card smart card magnetic stripe card bar code card transponder radio frequency card or an associated account.

Systems methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed description herein references to various embodiments one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

In various embodiments the methods described herein are implemented using the various particular machines described herein. The methods described herein may be implemented using the below particular machines and those hereinafter developed in any suitable combination as would be appreciated immediately by one skilled in the art. Further as is unambiguous from this disclosure the methods described herein may result in various transformations of certain articles.

For the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical system.

The various system components discussed herein may include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor and a plurality of databases. Various databases used herein may include client data merchant data financial institution data and or like data useful in the operation of the system. As those skilled in the art will appreciate user computer may include an operating system e.g. Windows NT Windows 95 98 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 OS2 UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers. A user may include any individual business entity government organization software and or hardware that interact with a system.

In various embodiments various components modules and or engines of system may be implemented as micro applications or micro apps. Micro apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile operating system including for example a Palm mobile operating system a Windows mobile operating system an Android Operating System Apple iOS a Blackberry operating system and the like. The micro app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of various operating systems and hardware resources. For example where a micro app desires to communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system the micro app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover where the micro app desires an input from a user the micro app may be configured to request a response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro app.

The system contemplates uses in association with web services utility computing pervasive and individualized computing security and identity solutions autonomic computing cloud computing commodity computing mobility and wireless solutions open source biometrics grid computing and or mesh computing.

Any databases discussed herein may include relational hierarchical graphical or object oriented structure and or any other database configurations. Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM Armonk N.Y. various database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. MySQL by MySQL AB Uppsala Sweden or any other suitable database product. Moreover the databases may be organized in any suitable manner for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors. Various database tuning steps are contemplated to optimize database performance. For example frequently used files such as indexes may be placed on separate file systems to reduce In Out I O bottlenecks.

More particularly a key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example certain types of data may be designated as a key field in a plurality of related data tables and the data tables may then be linked on the basis of the type of data in the key field. The data corresponding to the key field in each of the linked data tables is preferably the same or of the same type. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be linked by using AGREP for example. In accordance with one embodiment any suitable data storage technique may be utilized to store data without a standard format. Data sets may be stored using any suitable technique including for example storing individual files using an ISO IEC 7816 4 file structure implementing a domain whereby a dedicated file is selected that exposes one or more elementary files containing one or more data sets using data sets stored in individual files using a hierarchical filing system data sets stored as records in a single file including compression SQL accessible hashed via one or more keys numeric alphabetical by first tuple etc. Binary Large Object BLOB stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC 7816 6 data elements stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC Abstract Syntax Notation ASN.1 as in ISO IEC 8824 and 8825 and or other proprietary techniques that may include fractal compression methods image compression methods etc.

In various embodiments the ability to store a wide variety of information in different formats is facilitated by storing the information as a BLOB. Thus any binary information can be stored in a storage space associated with a data set. As discussed above the binary information may be stored on the financial transaction instrument or external to but affiliated with the financial transaction instrument. The BLOB method may store data sets as ungrouped data elements formatted as a block of binary via a fixed memory offset using either fixed storage allocation circular queue techniques or best practices with respect to memory management e.g. paged memory least recently used etc. . By using BLOB methods the ability to store various data sets that have different formats facilitates the storage of data associated with the financial transaction instrument by multiple and unrelated owners of the data sets. For example a first data set which may be stored may be provided by a first party a second data set which may be stored may be provided by an unrelated second party and yet a third data set which may be stored may be provided by an third party unrelated to the first and second party. Each of these three exemplary data sets may contain different information that is stored using different data storage formats and or techniques. Further each data set may contain subsets of data that also may be distinct from other subsets.

As stated above in various embodiments the data can be stored without regard to a common format. However in one exemplary embodiment the data set e.g. BLOB may be annotated in a standard manner when provided for manipulating the data onto the financial transaction instrument. The annotation may comprise a short header trailer or other appropriate indicator related to each data set that is configured to convey information useful in managing the various data sets. For example the annotation may be called a condition header header trailer or status herein and may comprise an indication of the status of the data set or may include an identifier correlated to a specific issuer or owner of the data. In one example the first three bytes of each data set BLOB may be configured or configurable to indicate the status of that particular data set e.g. LOADED INITIALIZED READY BLOCKED REMOVABLE or DELETED. Subsequent bytes of data may be used to indicate for example the identity of the issuer user transaction membership account identifier or the like. Each of these condition annotations are further discussed herein.

The data set annotation may also be used for other types of status information as well as various other purposes. For example the data set annotation may include security information establishing access levels. The access levels may for example be configured to permit only certain individuals levels of employees companies or other entities to access data sets or to permit access to specific data sets based on the transaction merchant issuer user or the like. Furthermore the security information may restrict permit only certain actions such as accessing modifying and or deleting data sets. In one example the data set annotation indicates that only the data set owner or the user are permitted to delete a data set various identified users may be permitted to access the data set for reading and others are altogether excluded from accessing the data set. However other access restriction parameters may also be used allowing various entities to access a data set with various permission levels as appropriate.

The data including the header or trailer may be received by a stand alone interaction device configured to add delete modify or augment the data in accordance with the header or trailer. As such in one embodiment the header or trailer is not stored on the transaction device along with the associated issuer owned data but instead the appropriate action may be taken by providing to the transaction instrument user at the stand alone device the appropriate option for the action to be taken. The system may contemplate a data storage arrangement wherein the header or trailer or header or trailer history of the data is stored on the transaction instrument in relation to the appropriate data.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of the system may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption decryption compression decompression and or the like.

Encryption may be performed by way of any of the techniques now available in the art or which may become available e.g. Twofish RSA El Gamal Schorr signature DSA PGP PKI and symmetric and asymmetric cryptosystems.

The computing unit of the web client may be further equipped with an Internet browser connected to the Internet or an intranet using standard dial up cable DSL or any other Internet protocol known in the art. Transactions originating at a web client may pass through a firewall in order to prevent unauthorized access from users of other networks. Further additional firewalls may be deployed between the varying components of CMS to further enhance security.

Firewall may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to protect CMS components and or enterprise computing resources from users of other networks. Further a firewall may be configured to limit or restrict access to various systems and components behind the firewall for web clients connecting through a web server. Firewall may reside in varying configurations including Stateful Inspection Proxy based access control lists and Packet Filtering among others. Firewall may be integrated within an web server or any other CMS components or may further reside as a separate entity. A firewall may implement network address translation NAT and or network address port translation NAPT . A firewall may accommodate various tunneling protocols to facilitate secure communications such as those used in virtual private networking. A firewall may implement a demilitarized zone DMZ to facilitate communications with a public network such as the Internet. A firewall may be integrated as software within an Internet server any other application server components or may reside within another computing device or may take the form of a standalone hardware component.

The computers discussed herein may provide a suitable website or other Internet based graphical user interface which is accessible by users. In one embodiment the Microsoft Internet Information Server IIS Microsoft Transaction Server MTS and Microsoft SQL Server are used in conjunction with the Microsoft operating system Microsoft NT web server software a Microsoft SQL Server database system and a Microsoft Commerce Server. Additionally components such as Access or Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Sybase Informix MySQL Interbase etc. may be used to provide an Active Data Object ADO compliant database management system. In one embodiment the Apache web server is used in conjunction with a Linux operating system a MySQL database and the Perl PHP and or Python programming languages.

Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a website having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to interact with the user. For example a typical website might include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS AJAX Asynchronous Javascript And XML helper applications plug ins and the like. A server may include a web service that receives a request from a web server the request including a URL http yahoo.com stockquotes ge and an IP address 123.56.789.234 . The web server retrieves the appropriate web pages and sends the data or applications for the web pages to the IP address. Web services are applications that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means such as the internet. Web services are typically based on standards or protocols such as XML SOAP AJAX WSDL and UDDI. Web services methods are well known in the art and are covered in many standard texts. See e.g. AN IT WS A RE 2003 hereby incorporated by reference.

Middleware may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate communications and or process transactions between disparate computing systems. Middleware components are commercially available and known in the art. Middleware may be implemented through commercially available hardware and or software through custom hardware and or software components or through a combination thereof. Middleware may reside in a variety of configurations and may exist as a standalone system or may be a software component residing on the Internet server. Middleware may be configured to process transactions between the various components of an application server and any number of internal or external systems for any of the purposes disclosed herein. WebSphere MQTM formerly MQSeries by IBM Inc. Armonk N.Y. is an example of a commercially available middleware product. An Enterprise Service Bus ESB application is another example of middleware.

Practitioners will also appreciate that there are a number of methods for displaying data within a browser based document. Data may be represented as standard text or within a fixed list scrollable list drop down list editable text field fixed text field pop up window and the like. Likewise there are a number of methods available for modifying data in a web page such as for example free text entry using a keyboard selection of menu items check boxes option boxes and the like.

The system and method may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the system may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the system may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C C Java JavaScript VBScript Macromedia Cold Fusion COBOL Microsoft Active Server Pages assembly PERL PHP awk Python Visual Basic SQL Stored Procedures PL SQL any UNIX shell script and extensible markup language XML with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the system could be used to detect or prevent security issues with a client side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like. For a basic introduction of cryptography and network security see any of the following references 1 Applied Cryptography Protocols Algorithms And Source Code In C by Bruce Schneier published by John Wiley Sons second edition 1995 2 Java Cryptography by Jonathan Knudson published by O Reilly Associates 1998 3 Cryptography Network Security Principles Practice by William Stallings published by Prentice Hall all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

With further regard to terms such as consumer customer merchant and the like each of these participants may be equipped with a computing device in order to interact with the system and facilitate online commerce transactions. A consumer or consumer may have a computing unit in the form of a personal computer although other types of computing units may be used including laptops notebooks hand held computers set top boxes cellular telephones touch tone telephones and the like. A merchant may have a computing unit implemented in the form of a computer server although other implementations are contemplated by the system. A bank may have a computing center shown as a main frame computer. However the bank computing center may be implemented in other forms such as a mini computer a PC server a network of computers located in the same of different geographic locations or the like. Moreover the system contemplates the use sale or distribution of any goods services or information over any network having similar functionality described herein

A merchant computer and or a bank computer may be interconnected via a second network referred to as a payment network. The payment network which may be part of certain transactions represents existing proprietary networks that presently accommodate transactions for credit cards debit cards and other types of financial banking cards. The payment network is a closed network that is assumed to be secure from eavesdroppers. Exemplary transaction networks may include the American Express VisaNet and the Veriphone networks.

An electronic commerce system may be implemented at the consumer and issuing bank. In an exemplary implementation the electronic commerce system may be implemented as computer software modules loaded onto the consumer computer and the banking computing center. The merchant computer may not require any additional software to participate in the online commerce transactions supported by the online commerce system.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the system may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product a processing apparatus executing upgraded software a standalone system a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly any portion of the system or a module may take the form of a processing apparatus executing code an internet based embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of the internet software and hardware. Furthermore the system may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROM optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or the like.

The system and method is described herein with reference to screen shots block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus e.g. systems and computer program products according to various embodiments. It will be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows webpages websites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise in any number of configurations including the use of windows webpages web forms popup windows prompts and the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single webpages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple webpages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

The term non transitory is to be understood to remove only propagating transitory signals per se from the claim scope and does not relinquish rights to all standard computer readable media that are not only propagating transitory signals per se. Stated another way the meaning of the term non transitory computer readable medium should be construed to exclude only those types of transitory computer readable media which were found in to fall outside the scope of patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any elements that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of the disclosure. The scope of the disclosure is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. Moreover where a phrase similar to at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B or C is used in the claims or specification it is intended that the phrase be interpreted to mean that A alone may be present in an embodiment B alone may be present in an embodiment C alone may be present in an embodiment or that any combination of the elements A B and C may be present in a single embodiment for example A and B A and C B and C or A and B and C. Although the disclosure includes a method it is contemplated that it may be embodied as computer program instructions on a tangible computer readable carrier such as a magnetic or optical memory or a magnetic or optical disk. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present disclosure for it to be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore no element component or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. As used herein the terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus.

The system may include or interface with any of the foregoing accounts devices and or a transponder and reader e.g. RFID reader in RF communication with the transponder which may include a fob or communications between an initiator and a target enabled by near field communications NFC . Typical devices may include for example a key ring tag card cell phone wristwatch or any such form capable of being presented for interrogation. Moreover the system computing unit or device discussed herein may include a pervasive computing device which may include a traditionally non computerized device that is embedded with a computing unit. Examples may include watches Internet enabled kitchen appliances restaurant tables embedded with RF readers wallets or purses with imbedded transponders etc. Furthermore a device or financial transaction instrument may have electronic and communications functionality enabled for example by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card a fob having a transponder and an RFID reader and or near field communication NFC technologies. For more information regarding NFC refer to the following specifications all of which are incorporated by reference herein ISO IEC 18092 ECMA 340 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 1 NFCIP 1 ISO IEC 21481 ECMA 352 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 2 NFCIP 2 and EMV 4.2 available at http www.emvco.com default.aspx.

The account number may be distributed and stored in any form of plastic electronic magnetic radio frequency wireless audio and or optical device capable of transmitting or downloading data from itself to a second device. A consumer account number may be for example a sixteen digit account number although each credit provider has its own numbering system such as the fifteen digit numbering system used by American Express. Each company s account numbers comply with that company s standardized format such that the company using a fifteen digit format will generally use three spaced sets of numbers as represented by the number 0000 000000 00000 . The first five to seven digits are reserved for processing purposes and identify the issuing bank account type etc. In this example the last fifteenth digit is used as a sum check for the fifteen digit number. The intermediary eight to eleven digits are used to uniquely identify the consumer. A merchant account number may be for example any number or alpha numeric characters that identify a particular merchant for purposes of account acceptance account reconciliation reporting or the like.

Phrases and terms similar to financial institution or transaction account issuer may include any entity that offers transaction account services. Although often referred to as a financial institution the financial institution may represent any type of bank lender or other type of account issuing institution such as credit card companies card sponsoring companies or third party issuers under contract with financial institutions. It is further noted that other participants may be involved in some phases of the transaction such as an intermediary settlement institution.

The terms payment vehicle financial transaction instrument transaction instrument and or the plural form of these terms may be used interchangeably throughout to refer to a financial instrument.

Phrases and terms similar to internal data or closed loop data may include any data a credit issuer possesses or acquires pertaining to a particular consumer. Internal data may be gathered before during or after a relationship between the credit issuer and the transaction account holder e.g. the consumer or buyer . Such data may include consumer demographic data. Consumer demographic data includes any data pertaining to a consumer. Consumer demographic data may include consumer name address telephone number email address employer and social security number. Consumer transactional data is any data pertaining to the particular transactions in which a consumer engages during any given time period. Consumer transactional data may include for example transaction amount transaction time transaction vendor merchant and transaction vendor merchant location. Transaction vendor merchant location may contain a high degree of specificity to a vendor merchant. For example transaction vendor merchant location may include a particular gasoline filing station in a particular postal code located at a particular cross section or address. Also for example transaction vendor merchant location may include a particular web address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL an email address and or an Internet Protocol IP address for a vendor merchant. Transaction vendor merchant and transaction vendor merchant location may be associated with a particular consumer and further associated with sets of consumers. Consumer payment data includes any data pertaining to a consumer s history of paying debt obligations. Consumer payment data may include consumer payment dates payment amounts balance amount and credit limit. Internal data may further comprise records of consumer service calls complaints requests for credit line increases questions and comments. A record of a consumer service call includes for example date of call reason for call and any transcript or summary of the actual call.

Phrases similar to a payment processor or processor may include a company e.g. a third party appointed e.g. by a merchant to handle transactions for merchant banks. Payment processors may be broken down into two types front end and back end. Front end payment processors have connections to various transaction accounts and supply authorization and settlement services to the merchant banks merchants. Back end payment processors accept settlements from front end payment processors and via The Federal Reserve Bank move money from an issuing bank to the merchant bank. In an operation that will usually take a few seconds the payment processor will both check the details received by forwarding the details to the respective account s issuing bank or card association for verification and may carry out a series of anti fraud measures against the transaction. Additional parameters including the account s country of issue and its previous payment history may be used to gauge the probability of the transaction being approved. In response to the payment processor receiving confirmation that the transaction account details have been verified the information may be relayed back to the merchant who will then complete the payment transaction. In response to the verification being denied the payment processor relays the information to the merchant who may then decline the transaction.

Phrases similar to a payment gateway or gateway may include an application service provider service that authorizes payments for e businesses online retailers and or traditional brick and mortar merchants. The gateway may be the equivalent of a physical point of sale terminal located in most retail outlets. A payment gateway may protect transaction account details by encrypting sensitive information such as transaction account numbers to ensure that information passes securely between the consumer and the merchant and also between merchant and payment processor.

