---

title: Mint plant ‘Everest Mint’
abstract: Mint selection 11-A35-3, denominated ‘Everest Mint’, is a new sp. cultivar that produces an essential oil different in composition, produces a high oil yield, has an upright, bush type plant habit and has resistance to mint rust () and mint wilt ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=PP025138&OS=PP025138&RS=PP025138
owner: Essex Laboratories, Inc.
number: PP025138
owner_city: Napavine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130325
---
The present invention relates to a new and distinct variety of peppermint plant developed from a parent of the species . The new variety will be identified as Everest Mint .

This new mint was developed in a mint breeding program in which the primary objective was to develop a new peppermint variety having a specific oil composition acceptable yield and resistant to mint diseases. The new variety is as resistant to mint wilt soil borne fungus as its parent but more resistant to mint rust air borne fungus . Selection 11 A35 3 has a higher yield of oil than the control variety Black Mitcham in test plots since 2011. This plant was selected from a population of mint seedlings in research plots on land near Monmouth Oreg. and initially identified as 11 A35 3.

Selection 11 A35 3 originated as a seedling from an open pollinated female parent 09 Blanco OP X OP included with male fertile polyploid Black Mitcham plants in a polycross breeding program. Diploid Black Mitcham is sterile and only becomes fertile in the polyploidy state. The parent plants in the polycross breeding system were composed of selected fertile male and female genotypes based on certain desirable characteristics.

Selection 11 A35 3 is asexually propagated by stem tip cuttings to maintain the cultivar s genetic integrity and as a means of increasing the selection for commercial planting. Asexual propagation by tip cuttings or stolon sections is a common practice in commercial mint cultivation and serves as a means of propagating the normally sterile mint plant. Under the inventor s direction Premier Botanicals has conducted asexual propagation of 11 A35 3 for greenhouse and field planting in Monmouth Oreg. each year since 2011 and the genotype comes true to form with each generation.

Mint selection 11 A35 3 denominated Everest Mint is a new sp. cultivar that produces an essential oil different in composition than commercially grown mint varieties. The essential oil is similar to standard mint oil in components composition but differs in the typical ratio of components. Organoleptically it differs from typical Black Mitcham peppermint oil. It is more resistant to mint rust than current commercially grown varieties.

My new mint plant improves upon and is distinct from other mint plants in several characteristics including but not limited to the following 

The essential oil extracted from 11 A35 3 has a composition of components more like that of oil produced by commercial than that of commercial as illustrated in Table 1. However the ratio of oil components in 11 A35 3 is different from those of both commercial varieties of and . The concentration of menthone in oil of 11 A35 3 is greater than that of commercial oil. There is only a trace of menthofuran present in the oil of 11 A35 3 and absent in oil of its parent and commercial . Menthyl acetate concentration is lower in the essential oil of 11 A35 3 than that in whereas the menthol is higher in 11 A35 3 than . Organoleptically the oil of 11 A35 3 is different from that of Black Mitcham and Shivalik reflecting the difference in oil component ratios.

One of the primary selection pressures in the breeding program is for disease resistance primarily for mint rust and mint wilt . No symptoms of either disease were observed in 11 A35 3 in multiple plant plots over a three year period. Blanco and Black Mitcham mint varieties served as control plants in the evaluation.

This new plant under greenhouse and field growing conditions is an upright bush type plant Photograph with lateral branches at each node of the main stem. It spreads from underground stolons. The height of 11 A35 3 is greater than Black Mitcham growing under similar conditions and will vary based on fertilizer soil quality water application amongst other known factors that affect growth patterns. The height of 11 A35 3 under field conditions and at the flowering stage is 0.76 to 1 m Photograph . The height of 11 A35 3 grown as a single plant is between 0.75 to 1.3 m and has a width of 0.3 to 0.45 m Photograph . Secondary and tertiary branching occurs to form a compact upright growth habit. The main stem at mid plant approximately between the eleventh and twelfth node of a mature plant is 4.2 5.2 mm in width. The secondary and tertiary branch stems are 2.0 3.4 mm and 1 2 mm in width respectively.

Mature leaves at the bottom of the plant are ovate lanceolate as are leaves on secondary branch stems. Leaves on upper mature plants both main and secondary stems are more lanceolate Photographs and . Leaf surface is sub glabrose on upper surface with very small hairs uniformly covering the surface. Small hairs are present on vein ridges on the underside of the leaf. Oil glands are distributed across the underside of the leaf. Fragrance of the leaf is a strong peppermint with a menthol note. Mid main stem leaf size at flowering is 30 34 mm in width and 55 65 mm in length. Leaf size on secondary branches at flowering is 18 24 mm in width and 35 40 mm in length. Leaf petioles on the main stem leaves are 10 13 mm in length while petioles on secondary branch stem leaves are 4 7 mm in length. Leaves on the mid main and lower stem tend to be less dentate than Black Mitcham peppermint leaves while the leaves on the upper plant tend to be more dentate and similar to Black Mitcham peppermint leaves. The main stem leaves have from 8 11 teeth on each side while the secondary branch leaves have 7 11 teeth on each side. The leaf is green in color ranging from Fifth Edition Royal Horticultural Society Colour Chart N137C to N137D in the Fan 3 green group classification. The leaf has 6 9 lateral veins more or less in parallel off the main vein that runs from the petiole to the tip of the leaf. The veins are prominent in all leaves of 11 A35 3. Seed produced by 11 A35 3 varies in color from brown Fifth Edition Royal Horticultural Society Colour Chart 177A Fan 4 Greyed Orange Group to black Fifth Edition Royal Horticultural Society Colour Chart 203B Fan 4 Black Group oval in shape with a width of 0.4 to 0.6 mm and a length of 0.6 to 0.8 mm.

The inflorescence is a conspicuous spike with capitate flowers developing at the nodes of the spike stem. The cylindrical spikes are about 30 mm in diameter and indeterminate in growth. The capitate flowers are 15 20 mm in width and 10 15 mm in length. The flowers consist of five petals fused into a two lipped corolla. The corolla is white light violet in color as illustrated in The Fifth Edition Royal Horticultural Society Colour Chart 91D in the Fan 2 Violet Blue Group. The calyx is generally yellow green and is 142A to 142B RHS Fan 3 Green Group as illustrated in The Fifth Edition Royal Horticultural Colour Chart index. The gynoecium consists of a single pistil with two lobed stigma that is exserted. The androecium consists of four stamens each with a distinct filament and anther.

While the plant that comprises the present invention has been described in connection with a specific embodiment thereof it will be understood that this application is intended to cover any variation uses or adaptation of the invention particular those induced by cultivation under different environmental conditions following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and as fall within the scope of the invention and the limits of the appended claim.

