---

title: Separation of client identification composition from customization payload to original equipment manufacturer layer
abstract: A mobile communication device. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link, a memory, a processor, and an operating system. The mobile communication device further comprises a client identification composition application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor at activation, blocks the activation of the mobile communication device, and after looks up the service provider identification, stores the service provider identification in the memory, composes a client identification (ID) based on the service provider identification, and stores the client identification, unblocks the activation of the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363622&OS=09363622&RS=09363622
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09363622
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
Mobile telephones are electronic devices that are used for mobile voice and or data communications based on wireless network connectivity which can be provided by base stations known as cell towers or sites. Such electronic devices may be associated with an electronic serial number ESN a stock keeping unit SKU number and other identifying information. Mobile telephones and similar electronic communications devices may be packaged with operating manuals warning documents charging devices and other accessories in a point of sale package suitable for distributing to end users. A plurality of point of sale packages each containing an electronic device may be shipped together to a retail store or business location. Electronic devices may be configured prior to shipping with unique packaging hardware and software branding features and functionality.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link a memory a processor and an operating system. The mobile communication device further comprises a client identification composition application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor at activation blocks the activation of the mobile communication device and after looks up the service provider identification stores the service provider identification in the memory composes a client identification ID based on the service provider identification and stores the client identification unblocks the activation of the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method of composing a client identification for a mobile communication device upon the change of a provisioning profile by a client identification composition application is disclosed. The method comprises detecting a change in a service provider identification in the provisioning profile reading the service provider identification from the changed provisioning profile and composing a second client identification based on the changed service provider identification. The method further comprises storing the second client identification in a memory of the mobile communication device to replace a first client identification and sending a notification to mobile services applications with the second client identification whereby user customization elements may be preserved after the change of service provider due to no reset of the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method of composing a client identification at an original equipment manufacturer level of an operating system on a mobile communication device by a client identification composition application is disclosed. The method comprises when a mobile services application that operates differently with different client identifications is executed for the first time after the initial activation of the mobile communication device after a reset of the mobile services application or upon the receipt of a notification from the client identification composition application reads the stored client identification on the mobile communication device. The method further comprises stores the client identification with the mobile services application in a memory of the mobile communication device and operates based on the client identification whereby the client identification is separated from a customization payload and thus a reset of the entire operating system after a new customization payload with a new client identification as in current systems may be avoided.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Problems may be caused by sending client identifications to a mobile communication device for example within a customization payload. As used herein a client identification identifies a wireless communication service provider. The client identification may be a unique identification that comprises at least an identification assigned to individual wireless communication service providers or carriers. For example Sprint may be assigned with a unique client identification that comprises a carrier identification that is different from other carriers. Other client identifications may be associated with different wireless bands and or mobile virtual network operator brands that are supported by a wireless communication service provider. A problem may result from resetting the mobile communication device to factory default upon the receipt of the customization payload so that the cached client identification in the device may be cleared for example the client identification cached in Google mobile services applications may be cleared. While various ANDROID and GOOGLE examples are discussed through the present disclosure it is understood that the functionality and teachings described herein may be applicable to other mobile operating systems and to other computing constructs.

Some Google mobile services applications operate differently with different client identifications and so maintaining the client identification current or up to date is desired by those Google mobile services applications. However previous user customization elements such as user downloaded applications and user preferences may be deleted during the process of resetting the mobile communication device to factory default when the customization payload is sent after user s customizing the mobile communication device. The present disclosure teaches a system and method for separating the client identification from the customization payload and composing it on the mobile communication device under predefined circumstances.

For example a client identification composition application on the mobile communication device may monitor the relevant identifications compose the client identification based on the relevant identifications and send the composed client identification to corresponding Google mobile services applications. The operating system of the mobile communication device may be an Android operating system. The client identification composition application may be a component of an original equipment manufacturer layer of the Android operating system. For example the client identification composition application may periodically examine relevant identifications for example a wireless communications service provider identification a country identification an operating system identification or another relevant identification on the mobile communication device or on the network that the mobile communication device is communicatively coupled to. The client identification composition application may also examine the relevant identifications after the initiation the initial activation or reset of the mobile communication device.

The client identification composition application may compose the client identification based on obtained relevant identifications and store the composed client identification to a memory of the mobile communication device. For example the client identification composition application may conduct the initial composition of the client identification at the first power up of the mobile communication device. When the mobile communication device is at activation the client identification composition application may block the activation process and obtain the client identification with a reduced delay. The client identification composition application may unblock the activation of the mobile communication device when the composition of the client identification is done. The mobile communication device may reset during the process of the client identification composition or during activation. However no reset of the mobile communication device upon the receipt of customization payload may be conducted because no customization payload is utilized to deliver the client identification. Thus previous user customization of the mobile communication device may be preserved.

The client identification may be stored at the original equipment manufacturer layer in Android system properties or both. The client identification composition application may also send a notification to Google mobile services applications that operate differently with different client identifications. The notification may comprise the client identification or the notification may just notify the Google mobile services applications of the generation of the client identification. In the latter case the Google mobile services applications may access the newly generated client identification after they receive the notifications. The Google mobile services applications may also examine the stored client identification when the Google mobile services applications are executed for the first time after the initiation after activation of the mobile communication device or after a reset of the Google mobile services application. The Google mobile services applications may be able to access the client identification at the original equipment manufacturer layer directly when the client identification is stored at the original equipment manufacturer layer. The Google mobile services applications may be able to access the client identification in the Android system properties directly when the client identification is stored in the Android system properties. Alternatively the Google mobile services applications may be able to access the client identification in the Android system properties through an application programming interface API built by the original equipment manufacturer layer.

The Google mobile services application may store the client identification in its settings for future reference. The Google mobile services application may operate based on the newly obtained client identification. Since no customization payload is utilized to deliver the client identification no reset to the factory default of the mobile communication device is conducted upon the receipt of any customization payload with a new client identification. While a Google client identification is used throughout as an example and preferred embodiment it is understood that the teachings of the disclosure may be applied to other client identifications.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices . The mobile communication device may comprise a processor a radio transceiver a memory an operating system a client identification composition application and one or more Google mobile services applications . The memory may comprise a client identification . The operating system may comprise a base operating system layer and an original equipment manufacturer OEM layer . The device is configured to use the radio transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the base transceiver station provides communications connectivity of the device to a network . One or more servers may also have access to the network . The network may comprise any combination of private and public networks.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide a radio communication link to the mobile communication devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The radio transceiver may communicate with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer or another mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

In a preferred embodiment the mobile communication device may be an Android driven device. The operating system of the Android driven mobile communication device may be an Android operating system that may be divided into several layers that comprise a base Android operating system an original equipment manufacturer layer and or another operating system layer. Additionally the client identification in the preferred embodiment may be a Google client identification . The base operating system may be the core of the Android operating system that is distributed by Google Inc. In other words the base Android operating system with the same version number distributed to different original equipment manufacturers may be exactly the same. The original equipment manufacturer layer may be the layer of the operating system that is above the core base operating system layer . In an embodiment the original equipment manufacturer layer may function as a control panel to handle wireless communication service provider specific customizations or carrier specific customizations. For example the original equipment manufacturer layer may be utilized to build a carrier specific user interface UI on top of the Android operating system .

The Google mobile services GMS is developed and promoted by Google Inc. as a component of the Android operating system. Google mobile services may provide one or more of search search by voice Gmail contact sync talk maps street YouTube play store and or another application. At least one of the Google mobile services applications may be preinstalled in the memory of the mobile communication device before the mobile communication device is distributed to the end user. Other Google mobile services applications may be available for purchasing and or downloading from the Google play store. In an embodiment when executed by the processor a Google mobile services application may operate based on the Google client identification . For example a Google mobile services application may have a different look and feel with different Google client identifications . A Google mobile services application may have different functionalities with different Google client identifications . For example the Google play store may offer different applications based on different Google client identifications .

The Google mobile services application that operates differently with different client identifications may read the Google client identification stored on the mobile communication device at different times. For example the Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification when the Google mobile services application is executed for the first time after the initial activation or reset of the mobile communication device . The Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification when the Google mobile services application is executed for the first time after the reset of the Google mobile services application . Additionally the Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification upon the receipt of a notification from the client identification composition application for a change in the Google client identification . The Google mobile services application may then store the Google client identification in its memory for later operation and operate based on the stored Google client identification . The Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification from different locations on the mobile communication device . For example the Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification in Android system properties directly or via a middleware when the Google client identification is stored in the Android system properties. Alternatively the Google mobile services application may read the Google client identification in the original equipment manufacturer layer when the Google client identification is stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer .

The Google client identification may be a unique identification that comprises at least an identification assigned to individual wireless communication service providers or carriers by Google Inc. For example Sprint may be assigned with a unique Google client identification that comprises a carrier identification that is different from other carriers. The Google identification may further comprise a country identification in which the mobile communication device is distributed and an operating system identification. In an embodiment the Google client identification may be created or composed and stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer or in the Android system properties by the client identification composition application . When the Google client identification is obtained by a Google mobile services application after its composition the Google client identification may be stored in the memory of the Google mobile services application for future reference. Google mobile services applications may have different look and feel and or operate differently with different Google client identifications . In other words a Google mobile services application may have different versions for carriers with different Google client identifications .

In most currently existing systems the Google client identification is distributed within a customization payload to the mobile communication device . The Google client identification is then cached by a Google mobile services application . When the mobile communication device receives a customization payload the mobile communication device may conduct a factory reset so that the Google mobile services application may clear its cache where the Google client identification is stored. However the previous user customization may be cleared with the reset of the mobile communication device . For example user settings may be reset to factory default user preferences may be reset to factory default user downloaded applications may be reset or cleared or other user customization may be cleared. The present disclosure teaches separating the Google client identification from the customization payload whereby the factory reset of the mobile communication device after the receipt of the customization payload is avoided.

In an embodiment the client identification composition application may be a component of the operating system . For example the client identification composition application may be a component of the original equipment manufacturer layer of the operating system . The client identification composition application may be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . The client identification composition application may examine the relevant identifications either on the mobile communication device or on the network at certain stages of the lifecycle of the mobile communication device . For example the initial composition of the client identification may occur at the first power up of the mobile communication device . When the mobile communication device is initially activated reset or when a change in any of the relevant identifications occurs the client identification composition application may compose a Google client identification based on the newly obtained or updated relevant identifications. For example the client identification composition application may compose a Google client identification based on a carrier identification a country identification an operating system identification and or another identification. The client identification composition application may store the composed Google client identification in the Android system properties or the original equipment manufacturer layer for future reference. The client identification composition application may also send a notification to relevant applications that utilize the Google client identification for example Google mobile services applications.

The client identification composition application may search for the relevant identifications remotely on the network or locally on the mobile communication device . For example the client identification composition application may examine the wireless communication service provider identification the operating system identification the country identification or another relevant identification remotely on the network or on the mobile communication device itself. For example the client identification composition application may examine provisioning information stored on the mobile communication device for the wireless communication service provider identification the operating system identification the country identification or another relevant identification.

The client identification composition application may examine the relevant identifications at different stages of the lifecycle of the mobile communication device. For example the client identification composition application may examine the relevant identifications at the initial activation or reset of the mobile communication device . The client identification composition application may periodically examine the relevant identification for a change in any of the relevant identifications for example once every month every ten days every week or in another time interval.

The client identification composition application may compose a Google client identification string based on the obtained relevant identifications. For example the client identification composition application may cascade the relevant identifications in a predefined order to generate a Google client identification string for example in the same order as delivered in the customization payload which is currently a common way to deliver the Google client identification . For example the operating system identification the wireless communication service provider identification and the country identification may be cascaded in order to generate the Google client identification .

When a mobile communication device is initially activated or when the mobile communication device resets the client identification composition application may search on the network or on the mobile communication device for the relevant identifications for example the country identity the operating system identity the wireless communication service provider identity or another relevant identity to compose a first Google client identification . In an embodiment when the mobile communication device is at activation the client identification composition application may block the activation of the mobile communication device until the end of the composition process of the Google client identification for example after the Google client identification is stored by the client identification composition application . After the composed Google client identification is stored the client identification composition application may unblock the activation of the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may reset to factory default during the Google client identification composition process. However the composition process may not be affected by the reset of the mobile communication device .

For example device self service DSS and hands free activation HFA are currently the two major ways for Sprint branded mobile communication device activation. With device self service activation the mobile communication device is not fully activated and no customization payload is sent to the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device that has had a device self service activation may be prompted for a hands free activation in predefined circumstances. With hands free activation the mobile communication device will be fully activated and a customization payload with the Google client identification is sent to the mobile communication device as part of open mobile alliance OMA device management DM . With the customization payload the mobile communication device may be reset to factory default and the previous user customization may be cleared.

In an embodiment for either device self service activation or hands free activation the client identification composition application may compose a Google client identification during the activation and the reset to factory default of the mobile communication device upon the receipt of a customization payload may be avoided. Currently a mobile communication device that has finished a device self service activation but not hands free activation is considered an unbranded mobile communication device . On the other hand a mobile communication device that has finished a hands free activation is considered a branded mobile communication device . In an embodiment both an unbranded mobile communication device and a branded mobile communication device may have the Google client identification stored on the device. For example the client identification composition application may obtain the relevant identifications with a reduced delay after the activation starts and the mobile communication device may reset during the Google client identification composition process. For example the client identification composition application may compose an open mobile alliance device management node with the relevant identifications for example a customization Google carrier node as part of the device self service activation or hands free activation process to replace the customization payload. In other words instead of delivering an explicit value of the Google client identification via the customization payload the mobile communication device may compose the Google client identification on the mobile communication device .

When a change occurs in any of the relevant identifications after the initial composition of the Google client identification after the activation or reset of the mobile communication device the client identification composition application may compose a second Google client identification to replace the stored first Google client identification . For example when a change of wireless communication service provider identity is detected by the client identification composition application a second Google client identification may be composed based on the updated wireless communication service provider identity and the second Google client identification may be stored to override the first Google client identification .

The client identification composition application may store the Google client identification after composing it into the memory of the mobile communication device . The Google client identification may be stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer in the Android system properties or in both the original equipment manufacturer layer and the Android system properties. When the Google client identification is stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer the Google mobile services application may have direct access to the Google client identification . When the Google client identification is stored in the Android system properties the Google mobile services application may also have direct access to the Google client identification in the Android system properties. Alternatively an application programming interface API may be built by the original equipment manufacturer layer so that the Google mobile services application may access the Google client identification in the Android system properties through the application programming interface. For example the application programming interface may read the Google client identification in the Android system properties on behalf of the Google mobile services application .

The client identification composition application may send a notification to the Google mobile services applications . The notification may comprise the latest Google client identification so that the Google mobile services application may read the latest Google client identification directly from the notification. Or the client identification composition application may send the notification just to notify the Google mobile services application of the latest generation of the Google client identification . When the notification from the client identification composition application is just to notify the Google mobile services application of the generation of a Google client identification the Google mobile services application may then examine the proper location for the latest Google client identification . For example the Google mobile services application may examine the Android system properties in the case that the Android system properties are directly accessible to the Google mobile services application . The Google mobile services application may access the Android system properties through the application programming interface built by the original equipment manufacturer layer in the case that the Android system properties are accessible to the Google mobile services application through the application programming interface instead. Alternatively the Google mobile services application may access the original equipment manufacturer layer to fetch the updated Google client identification in the case that the Google client identification is stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer .

In an embodiment the Google mobile services applications may store the latest Google client identification in its settings for future reference. If a Google client identification already exists in the settings of the Google mobile services application the latest Google client identification is stored to replace the original Google client identification . In other words the original Google client identification may be overridden by the latest Google client identification . In an embodiment no customization payload comprising a Google client identification may be sent to the Google mobile services application . Thus the factory reset upon the receipt of the customization payload comprising the Google client identification to clear the cache of the Google client identification in the Google mobile services application may be avoided and as a result previous user customization may be preserved.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a change is detected in a service provider identification in the provisioning profile. For example in an embodiment the client identification composition application may examine the provisioning profile on a mobile communication device periodically for any change in relevant identifications to the Google client identification . It is to be noted that although at block the client identification composition application examines the provisioning profile on the mobile communication device periodically the client identification composition application may examine provisioning information on the network in the case that the relevant identifications are not available in a provisioning profile on the mobile communication device but instead on the network . When a change in any of the relevant identifications is detected the client identification composition application may take further action. It is understood that although it is stated at block that a change in a service provider identification is detected for further action any change in the relevant identifications for example a country identification an operating system identification or another relevant identification may trigger similar action by the client identification composition application .

At block the service provider identification is read from the changed provisioning profile. In the case that a change in the service provider identification was detected the updated service provider identification may be read from the provisioning profile by the client identification composition application . At block a second client identification is composed based on the changed service provider identification. In an embodiment the client identification composition application composes a second client identification based on the updated service provider identification. At block the second client identification is stored in a memory of the mobile communication device to replace a first client identification. For example the second client identification may be stored in the Android system properties or an original equipment manufacturer layer of the operating system on the mobile communication device and the first client identification may be overridden by the second client identification. The client identification may also be stored in both the Android system properties and the original equipment manufacturer layer of the operating system and in this case the first client identification is overridden by the second client identification at both the Android system properties and the original equipment manufacturer layer .

At block a notification is sent to mobile services applications with the second client identification. Since the Google mobile services applications operate based on the client identification a notification may be sent to the Google mobile services applications when the second client identification is composed. The second client identification may be included in the notification to the Google mobile services applications as stated in block . Alternatively the notification may just notify the Google mobile services applications of the change of the client identification . The Google mobile services applications may then fetch the second client identification through different ways. For example when the client identification is stored in the original equipment manufacturer layer the Google mobile services applications may be able to read the second client identification from the original equipment manufacturer layer directly. When the client identification is stored in the Android system properties the Google mobile services applications may be able to read the second client identification from the Android system properties directly. Alternatively when the client identification is stored in the Android system properties the Google mobile services applications may not have direct access to the Android system properties and instead may read the second client identification from the Android system properties through an application programming interface. The application programming interface may be built by the original equipment manufacturer layer . Some Google mobile services applications may be able to access the Android system properties directly while the rest of the Google mobile services may be able to access the Android system properties through the application programming interface.

At block user customization elements may be preserved after the change of service provider due to no reset of the mobile communication device. When a customization payload is utilized to deliver the client identification as in most current mobile communication device activation methods the mobile communication device may be reset to factory default upon the receipt of the customization payload to clear the cache of the existing client identification in the Google mobile services applications . In an embodiment the client identification is separated from the customization payload which means the client identification is composed based on relevant identifications on the mobile communication device instead of being delivered with the customization payload and thus the reset upon the receipt of the customization payload to clear the cache of the Google mobile services applications may be avoided. This way the user customization elements may be preserved.

Turning now to a method is described. At block when a mobile services application that operates differently with different client identifications is executed for the first time after the initial activation of the mobile communication device after a reset of the mobile services application or upon the receipt of a notification from the client identification composition application the stored client identification on the mobile communication device is read. For example the Google mobile services application that operates differently with different Google client identifications may read the stored Google client identification when the Google mobile services application is executed for the first time after the initial activation of the mobile communication device or after a reset of the Google mobile services application . Additionally when the Google mobile services application receives a notification from the client identification composition application about the change of the Google client identification the Google mobile services application may read the updated Google client identification stored on the mobile communication device .

At block the client identification is stored with the mobile services application in a memory of the mobile communication device. For example the Google client identification may be stored into the settings of the Google mobile services application for future reference. At block the mobile services application operates based on the Google client identification. For example the Google mobile services application may operate differently with different Google client identifications . For example the Google mobile services application may have more functionality with a first Google client identification than with a second Google client identification .

At block the client identification is separated from a customization payload and thus a reset of the entire operating system after a new customization payload with a new client identification as in current systems may be avoided. In most current systems the Google client identification is delivered within a customization payload. The mobile communication device may reset to factory default when the customization payload is received at the mobile communication device so that the cached value of the Google client identification in the Google mobile services application may be cleared. In an embodiment the Google client identification is separated from the customization payload and instead is composed on the mobile communication device based on relevant identifications by the client identification composition application . Thus a reset of the mobile communication device upon the receipt of the customization payload with the new Google client identification may be avoided. Previous user customization elements may be preserved.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

