---

title: Voltage surge and overvoltage protection by distributed clamping device dissipation
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments of voltage protectors that include a first voltage clamping device configured to clamp a voltage of an input power applied to an electrical load, and a second voltage clamping device configured to clamp the voltage applied to the electrical load. A series inductance separates the first and second voltage clamping devices. Also, a switching element is employed to selectively establish a direct coupling of the input power to the electrical load, where a circuit is employed to control the operation of the switching element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071048&OS=09071048&RS=09071048
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09071048
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131105
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 679 705 filed Nov. 16 2012 entitled VOLTAGE SURGE AND OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION USING PRESTORED VOLTAGE TIME PROFILES now U.S. Pat. No 8 593 776 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 098 226 filed Apr. 29 2011 entitled VOLTAGE SURGE AND OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION USING PRESTORED VOLTAGE TIME PROFILES now U.S. Pat. No. 8 335 068 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 062 953 filed Apr. 4 2008 entitled VOLTAGE SURGE AND OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION by Deepakraj M. Divan now U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 117 which claims the benefit pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 910 355 entitled PREVENTING DAMAGE TO TRANSIENT VOLTAGE SURGE SUPPRESSORS DUE TO OVER VOLTAGES filed on Apr. 5 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This application is also related to the following U.S. patent applications each of which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 062 953 filed Apr. 4 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 117 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 098 105 entitled Voltage Surge and Overvoltage Protection with RC Snubber Current Limiter filed on Apr. 29 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 325 455 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 098 169 entitled Voltage Surge and Overvoltage Protection with Sequenced Component Switching filed on Apr. 29 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 335 067 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 098 214 entitled Voltage Surge and Overvoltage Protection with Current Surge Protection filed on Apr. 29 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 411 403.

Voltage surges created by lightning strikes and longer duration over voltages experienced on a power distribution grid can result in significant damage to electronic equipment. Where a sustained overvoltage is severe fires have been started resulting in significant loss of property. Existing surge protection devices such as Transient Voltage Surge Suppressors TVSS are typically designed to handle short duration transients of 8 20 microseconds associated with lightning strikes. As a result TVSS devices typically provide no protection against longer duration over voltage disturbances and can often be the cause of the fires and damage to equipment that have been reported.

With reference to shown is one example of a voltage protector according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The voltage protector includes an input terminal through which an input power voltage V is received. The power voltage V comprises a nominal voltage that is a standard value specified for various purposes such as power distribution on a power grid i.e. 120 240 single phase 480 277 Wye 120 208 Wye or other specification. Nominal voltages may be generated at various frequencies such as 60 Hz. 50 Hz. 400 Hz. or any other frequency. Thus a nominal voltage may be an AC voltages specified for example in terms of peak to peak voltage RMS voltage and or frequency. Also a nominal voltage may be a DC voltage specified in terms of a voltage magnitude.

From time to time the power voltage V may experience an overvoltage that may last many milliseconds or even longer. Such overvoltages may be caused by a variety of incidents including faults in the power distribution system or the switching of capacitors into and out of the power distribution grid for purposes of voltage regulation. Also in split 240 volt single phase systems for example the loss of the neutral conductor due to a fault cut conductor or other problem can result in overvoltages. Still further the power voltage V may experience voltage sags from time to time resulting in potentially harmful inrush current into sensitive electronic equipment at the end of the voltage sag event.

The voltage protector includes phase neutral and ground conductors that are used to route the power voltage V to an electrical load that is coupled to the transient voltage surge suppressor . In this respect the voltage protector may be embodied in a power strip a load center or other location.

The voltage protector includes a thermal fuse that operates as a safety circuit interrupt as can be appreciated. The voltage protector also includes first voltage clamping device and a second voltage clamping device . As will be discussed further below the voltage clamping level of the first voltage clamping device is substantially higher than the voltage clamping level of the second voltage clamping device . The first voltage clamping device is coupled from phase to neutral N at the power input of the voltage protector . The second voltage clamping device is coupled from phase to neutral N at the power output of the voltage protector in parallel with the electrical load when coupled thereto.

The voltage protector further comprises a series inductance L a first switching element R and a second switching element R. The series inductance L is positioned in the phase conductor between the first and second clamping devices and . The first and second switching elements R and R are coupled in parallel to each other as shown. The first switching element R includes a first state and a second state. In the first state the first switching element R couples the series inductance L directly to the electrical load . In a second state the first switching element R couples a shunt resistance Racross the phase and neutral N conductors in parallel with the load . Where the electrical load is inductive the shunt resistance RS allows the inductive load to discharge and provides a pathway for leakage currents as can be appreciated.

The second switch element R includes a first state and a second state. In the first state the second switch element R couples an impedance between the series inductance L and the electrical load . In this sense the second switch element R adds an impedance to the electrical load . In a second state the second switch element R is open. The first and second switching elements R and R may comprise for example relays solid state switches such as thyristors or other types of switching circuit elements.

Coupled to the second switching element R is an impedance that comprises for example a negative temperature coefficient resistor thermistor or other impedance. In addition the voltage protector includes a voltage clamping device coupled between phase and ground G and a voltage clamping device coupled between neutral N and ground G. The voltage clamping devices and may comprise for example metal oxide varistors zener diodes gas tubes or other voltage clamping circuit dements.

Still further the voltage protector includes a processor circuit that controls the operation of the first and second switching elements R and R. The voltage protector also includes a current surge detection interface circuit a voltage detection interface circuit and a power circuit . The current surge detection interface circuit the voltage detection interface circuit and the power circuit each receive an input voltage taken across the phase and neutral N conductors between the inductance L and the first and second switches R.

The current surge detection interface circuit detects whether a voltage sag exists that can result in a potentially damaging current surge.

The voltage detection interface circuit detects the power voltage V and provides an appropriate signal to the processor circuit . By knowing the voltage at any given moment the processor circuit can take such action as is deemed necessary to protect components of the voltage protector and the electrical load from voltage surge and voltage sag activity as will be described. The current surge detection interface circuit and the voltage detection interface circuit are designed to provide a fast response to overvoltage and voltage sag conditions. The microprocessor is selected so as to provide for fast switching of the switching elements R and R.

The power circuit generates DC power that is applied to the processor circuit to power its operation as can be appreciated.

Referring next to shown is a voltage time chart that depicts several voltage time curves that act as predefined voltage time thresholds that are used by the processor circuit to control the operation of the first and second switching elements R and R The data associated with the voltage time curves is stored in a memory associated with the processor circuit .

Each curve represents a magnitude duration threshold for an overvoltage in the power voltage V that is used to determine when the processor circuit is to take action to prevent potential electrical damage to circuitry due to an overvoltage. This is to say if a magnitude of an overvoltage lasts long enough the amount of energy inherent in the overvoltage may cause damage to circuitry as will be discussed. The voltage time curves act as magnitude duration thresholds by which it may be determined that there is too much energy in an overvoltage to be handled by the first and second voltage clamping devices and .

In this respect for example assume that the power voltage V applied to the voltage protector has a nominal value of 120 volts RMS at 60 Hz. According to one embodiment any overvoltage experienced by the power voltage V that is less than 15 over the nominal 120 volt RMS value is a safe value such that the voltage protector continues to supply the power voltage V to the load through the series inductance L. However if the power voltage V is equal to or greater than the 115 of the nominal voltage for a predefined period of time for example then the voltage protector may take action to protect the voltage clamping devices and and the electrical load from the overvoltage. In this respect the voltage clamping devices and may conduct current due to the overvoltage but may become overheated or may experience other damage causing a fire hazard if the overvoltage moves beyond the specified voltage time curves .

During operation of the voltage protector the first and second voltage clamping devices and operate to dissipate voltage transients and overvoltages to protect the electrical load . Specifically when a high voltage transient such as caused by a lightning strike is experienced in the power voltage V it first encounters the first voltage clamping device that begins to conduct. The series inductance slows down the propagation of the voltage transient or overvoltage to allow the first voltage clamping device to clamp the voltage at its clamping level. The second voltage clamping device then conducts any excess voltage to ground G that passes through the series inductance L According to one embodiment since the clamping level i.e. 300 volts of the second voltage clamping device is approximately one half the clamping level i.e. 600 volts of the first voltage clamping device then the dissipation of the excess voltage experienced from a voltage transient or overvoltage is distributed between the first and second voltage clamping devices and .

As mentioned above the voltage clamping level of the first voltage clamping device may comprise for example 600 volts and the second voltage clamping device may have a clamping level of 300 volts as can be appreciated. Alternatively some other ratio of clamping voltages may exist between the first and second voltage clamping devices and . The specific voltage clamping levels of the first and second voltage clamping devices and also depend upon the nominal value of the power voltage V. It should be noted that even though the clamping voltage of the first clamping device is 600 volts the electrical load is never exposed to a voltage that is higher than the clamping voltage of the second clamping device i.e. 300 volts . Also the first voltage clamping device affords protection against voltage transients and the like even if the switching elements R and R are in an off state.

The processor circuit is configured to control the first and second switching elements R and R to selectively establish a direct coupling of the power voltage V to the electrical load . In this respect when the power voltage V experiences an overvoltage that extends beyond one or more of the voltage time curves the processor circuit is configured to manipulate the switching elements R and R in order to at least partially isolate the electrical load and the second voltage clamping device from the power voltage V until the overvoltage has abated. In one embodiment the electrical load is entirely decoupled from the power voltage V where the switching elements R and R are in the off state as will be described.

In this respect the second voltage clamping device with a lower conduction voltage dissipates the bulk of the energy in the case of sustained overvoltage from incoming line to neutral N. Where the dissipation due to the overvoltage is so great that the first or second voltage clamping device or may overheat or burn up the thermal fuse will blow thereby protecting all of the circuitry in the voltage protector . Other implementations for protecting the voltage clamping devices with thermal fuses are well known and will not be discussed in greater detail herein.

Thus the voltage protector advantageously ensures that the electrical load is protected from voltage transients and overvoltages without presenting a fire hazard. Where the voltage clamping devices and comprise metal oxide varistors they may only last 8 to 10 milliseconds under typically encountered overvoltage conditions while dissipating significant energy before overheating or damage results To this end the design of the voltage protectors as described herein take into account the limited capabilities of such voltage clamping devices.

Typical transient voltage surge suppressors do not take such limitations into account. For example even in the rare case where over voltage protection is claimed metal oxide varistors used may be subject to over voltages for as much as 100 200 milliseconds which is enough to permanently damage the metal oxide varistors.

Note that the voltage time curves are specified so as to prevent the processor circuit from implementing nuisance switching of the switching elements and to isolate the electrical load during overvoltages that may not be high enough to cause damage. In this respect some degree of overvoltage is tolerated in order to prevent unwarranted disruption of the operation of the electrical load . Such overvoltages are those that do not result in the overheating of the first and second voltage clamping devices and or cause damage to the electrical load .

In view of the foregoing the operation of the voltage protector is discussed with greater particularity with reference to the figures that follow 

With reference to shown is a state diagram that depicts the operation of logic executed within the processor circuit according to an embodiment. Alternatively the state diagram of may be viewed as depicting steps of a method implemented in the processor circuit .

The state diagram includes a power off state a nominal state a voltage sag state and an isolation state . The power off state is the state of the processor circuit when there is no power is applied to the inputs of the processor circuit . Assuming that power is applied to the voltage protector then a power up routine is implemented to transition the state of the processor circuit from the power off state to the nominal state . The nominal state represents a normal operating state of the processor circuit such that the power voltage V is nominal and no voltage anomalies such as transients or overvoltages are experienced as described above. If power is lost while the processor circuit is in the nominal stare the voltage sag state or the isolation state then the processor circuit reverts to the power off state .

If while in the nominal state a voltage sag occurs in the power voltage V then a voltage sag routine is implemented so as to transition the operation of the processor circuit to the voltage sag state . In the voltage sag state the processor circuit waits until a voltage sag has come to an end in order to transition back to the nominal state . In transitioning back to the nominal state the processor circuit will implement a voltage sag over routine .

In addition if while in the nominal state the voltage protector experiences an overvoltage the processor circuit will decide whether it is necessary to enter the isolation state depending upon whether the overvoltage exceeds a given one of the voltage time curves as described above. In some cases overvoltages may comprise moderate overvoltages that may not provide immediate harm to the electrical load . However if the duration of such moderate overvoltages lasts beyond the time specified by a given one of the voltage time curves then such moderate overvoltage may become damaging due to the excess energy involved. In such case the processor circuit transitions to the isolation state by implementing a moderate overvoltage routine . However if a severe overvoltage occurs such that imminent damage to the electrical load and the voltage clamping devices and may occur then the processor circuit will transition from the nominal state to the isolation state by implementing a severe overvoltage routine .

When in the isolation state a direct coupling between the input power voltage V and the load is disconnected such that the electrical load is at least partially isolated from the power voltage V during the duration of the potentially damaging overvoltage. When the moderate or severe overvoltage is over and the power voltage V has returned to nominal while in the isolation state then the processor circuit returns to the nominal state by implementing a restore power routine . Examples of the various routines described above in transitioning between the respective operational states will be provided in the discussion that follows. It is understood that each flow chart depicted may be viewed as depicting the operation of the processor circuit or such flow charts may be viewed as depicting steps of methods implemented in the voltage protector . In one embodiment the flow charts depict functionality that may be implemented with any one of a number of programming languages associated with processor circuits that may be employed.

Referring next to shown is one example of the power up routine that occurs upon initial power up of the processor circuit when the voltage protector is first placed into an operational state with respect to an electrical load as can be appreciated. Once the power voltage V is first applied to the input terminals of the voltage protector in box the processor circuit is initialized as can be appreciated. In this initial state the relays R and R are in the off positions the first state such that R couples the load through the resistor Rto neutral N and R presents an open circuit.

By virtue of the fact that the switching elements R and R are off when power is first applied the electrical load is isolated from the power voltage V. This is advantageous due to the fact that the power voltage V may be experiencing an overvoltage while the processor circuit is first initializing. Specifically because the processor circuit is initializing when first powered up it is not in a position to operate the switching elements R and R in order to adequately protect the electrical load . Accordingly the switching elements R and R are specified to be in an off state upon the startup of the voltage protector so as to protect the electrical load during the initialization phase.

Next in box the initialization process proceeds until it has completed. Assuming that the processor circuit is initialized then box the processor circuit determines whether the power voltage V is currently experiencing an overvoltage such as a moderate or severe overvoltage. If no overvoltage is currently being experienced then the processor circuit proceeds to box . On the other hand if an overvoltage exists then the processor circuit proceeds to box in which the processor circuit rats until the voltage has returned to nominal. Thereafter the processor circuit proceeds to box as shown.

In box the processor circuit causes the switching element R to turn on in order to place the thermistor into the circuit to limit an inrush current into the electrical load during the initial power up of the load . In box the processor circuit initiates a tinier. This timer effectively determines a period of time for the electrical load to fully power up with the thermistor in the circuit thereby ensuring that there will be no damaging inrush current to the electrical load .

In box the processor circuit determines whether the timer has reached a predefined time within which any potential inrush current into the electrical load will have been abated. Assuming that the timer has reached the predefined time in box then in box the processor circuit turns on switching element R thereby directly coupling the power voltage V to the electrical load and bypassing the thermistor . In this respect the thermistor is bypassed as the direct coupling presented through the switching element R provides the path of least resistance to the electrical load .

Then in box the switching element R is turned off thereby opening the circuit. Note that due to the fact that the switching element R is closed when switching element R was turned on the voltage seen across switching element R at such time will be the voltage across the thermistor . This voltage is relatively low given that the thermistor is added in series with the load . Where the switching element R is a relay this fact advantageously prevents a significant voltage from developing over the contacts of a relay R thereby preventing significant sparking during the switching of the relay R. Such sparking might otherwise result in damage to the relay over time that will significantly degrade its performance and lifespan. Thereafter the processor circuit enters nominal state 

With reference to shown is one example of the voltage sag routine that is implemented in order to transition from the nominal state to the voltage sag state . The voltage sag routine is implemented when the processor circuit detects a voltage sag in the power voltage V as described above. The actually magnitude and duration of a voltage sag that causes the implementation of the voltage sag routine can be predetermined. In one embodiment the magnitude and duration of such a voltage sag may be specified such that voltage sags that are more severe than the predetermined threshold would result in a significant inrush current into the electrical load when the power voltage V returns to nominal. However the threshold voltage sag should be defined so as to prevent nuisance switching etc. In one embodiment a voltage sag of less than 75 nominal voltage for more than 2 to 3 cycles might result in significant current inrush. In another example a voltage sage of 85 nominal voltage or higher for a few cycles would be ignored as a potential nuisance switching event.

The voltage sag routine begins with box in which the switching element R is turned on thereby inserting the thermistor into the circuit. At some point after R is turned on in box the switching element R is turned off. This causes the power voltage to be supplied to the electrical load through the thermistor . Assuming that the switching element R is a relay then by turning the switching element R on before turning the switching element R off the voltage across the contacts of the relay R is equal to the voltage across the thermistor thereby minimizing sparking across the contacts of the relay that can degrade the performance and lifespan of the relay as described above.

Thereafter the voltage sag routine ends and the processor circuit is placed in the voltage sag state in which the processor circuits waits until the voltage sag ends and the power voltage V returns to nominal. The level of voltage of the power voltage that qualifies as the voltage sag that would cause the implementation of the voltage sag routine may be predetermined as can be appreciated.

With reference then to FIG B shown is one example of the voltage sag over routine that is employed when transitioning from the voltage sag state back to the nominal state . The voltage sag over routine is implemented when the processor circuit detects that the power voltage V has returned to a nominal state based upon inputs from the voltage detect interface circuit .

When in the voltage sag state the switching element R is in an off state where power is supplied to the electrical load through the thermistor . Also the switching element R is in an off position such that the electrical load is in parallel with the shunt resistance R.

To begin in box the voltage sag over routine turns on R at an optimal point in the power voltage cycle. The optimal point in the power cycle is one that minimizes the creation of an inrush current in the electrical load . In particular reference is made to the discussion of that mention the timing at which a thyristor or relay is controlled to establish the application of power voltage to the electrical load while minimizing an inrush current to the electrical load . Once the switching element R is turned on at the optimal point in box then the switching element R is turned off to allow the steady state operation of the load .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the moderate overvoltage routine that is executed for example to transition the operation of the processor circuit from the nominal state to the isolation state according to various embodiments. To begin a moderate overvoltage is detected when an overvoltage experienced in the power voltage V is such that it is greater than the minimum voltage time curve but is less than a voltage time curve that would deem to be immediately damaging to the electrical load i.e. a severe overvoltage . As such moderate overvoltages may exist according for a predefined period of time before they are considered damaging. When the moderate overvoltage reaches the point where it may be potentially damaging action may be taken to protect the various components of the voltage protector and the electrical load in a manner that minimizes potential damage to switching elements R as be described.

Beginning with box the moderate overvoltage routine initiates a timer . This timer is initiated in order to measure the duration of the overvoltage so that it can be compared with a given voltage time curve stored in the memory associated with the processor circuit . In box it is determined whether to decouple the electrical load from the power voltage V based upon whether the moderate overvoltage is greater than one of the given voltage time curves stored in the memory of the processor circuit .

Assuming that the electrical load is to be decoupled from the power voltage V then in box the relay R is turned on thereby injecting the thermistor in series with the electrical load . Thereafter in box a delay is imposed upon the operation of the moderate overvoltage routine . Then in box the switching element R is switched off thereby coupling the shunt resistance Racross faced neutral in parallel with the electrical load .

In this situation the power voltage Vis applied to the electrical load through the thermistor . This is advantageous as the voltage across the thermistor is a relatively low voltage which means that the voltage across the switching element R is equal to such voltage since the switching element R is in parallel with the switching element R and the thermistor . If the switching element R comprises a relay then this lower voltage will minimize any sparking experienced at the contacts of the relay when turned off thereby preventing major damage to the relay as described above.

In box a further delay is imposed upon the implementation of the moderate overvoltage routine . Then in box the switching element R is turned off thereby completely decoupling the electrical load from the power voltage V. Thereafter the voltage protector enters the isolation state in which the electrical load is isolated from the power voltage V until the overvoltage has ended and the power voltage V has returned to nominal. This action prevents the electrical load from experiencing a potentially damaging overvoltage. Also the first and second voltage clamping devices and are prevented from overheating and or causing a fire etc. At the same time where the switching element R is a relay the lifespan of the relay is extended.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of the severe overvoltage routine according to various embodiments. The severe overvoltage routine transitions the processor circuit from the nominal state to the isolation state in response to a severe overvoltage experienced in the power voltage V. A severe overvoltage is considered to be an overvoltage that is so high that immediate damage is threatened to the electrical load and or the first and second voltage clamping devices and . In this respect a severe overvoltage may result in physical damage to the second voltage clamping device that may render it inoperative and potentially cause a fire or other malfunction.

A severe overvoltage may be defined by a predefined voltage time curve stored in a memory associated with the processor circuit . Beginning with box the severe overvoltage routine starts a timer. Then in box the severe overvoltage routine determines whether a severe overvoltage has occurred for a required predefined period of time thereby necessitating isolation of the electrical load from the power voltage V in an attempt to prevent destruction of the second voltage clamping device and to protect the electrical load . Assuming that the duration of the severe overvoltage has reached the prescribed time specified in a respective voltage time curve associated with a severe overvoltage then in box the switching element R is turned off.

It may be the case where the switching element R comprises a relay that a significant spark may occur across the contacts of the relay R when it is turned off in this context since the switching element R is turned off at the same time. However due to the potential damaging nature of the severe overvoltage the damage that potentially may occur to the relay in this context is tolerated even if such damage might result in undue degradation of the relay R and shorten its lifespan. However given that the occurrences of such severe overvoltages are relatively rare the potential damage in this context is tolerated rather than allowing the first and second voltage clamping devices and to be overheated or cause a fire as well as to prevent damage to the electrical load . Thereafter the processor circuit enters the isolation state in which the electrical load is isolated from the power voltage V.

The restore power routine is implemented to transition the processor circuit from the isolation state back to the nominal state after the power voltage V has returned to nominal having experienced either a severe or moderate overvoltage. In the isolation state both the switching elements R and R are off. In order to transition the processor circuit back to the nominal state the switching element R is turned on at an optimal point in the power voltage in much as the way described above with respect to box so as to minimize an inrush current experienced by the electrical load . Consequently the description of the restore power routine is not provided herein in detail.

Referring next to shown is a schematic of a voltage protector according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The voltage protector is similar to the voltage protector with the exception that the voltage protector does not include the current surge detection interface circuit the switching element R and the thermistor . Also the voltage protector includes a processor circuit that executes logic that differs from that executed in the processor circuit . Rather the voltage protector includes an R C snubber comprising a resistance R and a capacitance C in parallel with the switching element R as shown. The R C snubber comprises a very large impedance that provides a significant degree of isolation between the power voltage V and the electrical load when the switching element R is off thereby coupling the shunt resistance Rfrom phase to neutral N.

The operation of the voltage protector is similar to the operation of the voltage protector described above with the exception that the switching element R is eliminated. In this respect the power circuit controls the operation of the switching element R in response to overvoltages and voltage sags experienced in the power voltage V. In particular when the switching element R is on the power voltage V is applied directly to the electrical load where the direct connection through the switching element R presents the path of least resistance bypassing the R C snubber. Thus the switching element R is employed to selectively establish a direct coupling of the power voltage V to the electrical load . An overvoltage is effectively dissipated using the first and second voltage clamping devices and as described above with respect to the voltage protector .

However when the energy associated with an overvoltage either due to the high magnitude of the overvoltage or the long duration of the overvoltage reaches a point where the first and second voltage clamping devices and may be damaged or where the electrical load may experience damage as described above then the processor circuit will turn the switching element R off thereby injecting the R C snubber in series between the power voltage V and the electrical load . Also the shunt resistance Ris injected in parallel with the electrical load to prevent high stray voltage from being impressed across the electrical load .

The processor circuit is configured to turn off the switching element R upon the occurrence of an overvoltage as described above or upon the occurrence of a voltage sag. When the power voltage V returns to nominal at the end of an overvoltage the switching element R is turned on to resume normal operation. When the power voltage has returned to nominal after a voltage sag the switching element R is turned on at the optimal time during the cycle of the power voltage so as to minimize an inrush current to the electrical load in a similar manner as was described with reference to above.

In view of the foregoing the operation of the voltage protector is discussed with greater particularity with reference to the figures that follow 

With reference to shown is a state diagram that illustrates the control logic implemented in the processor circuit according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Alternatively the state diagram of may be viewed as depicting steps of a method implemented in the processor circuit . The control logic includes a power off state a nominal state and an isolation state . The power off state represents the state of the processor circuit when no power voltage V is applied to the voltage protector and the voltage protector is in an off condition. When the power voltage V is applied to the inputs of the voltage protector then the voltage protector transitions to the nominal state by implementing the power up routine . Also when the voltage protector reverts to the power off state upon experiencing a loss of power .

While in the nominal state the voltage protector applies the power voltage V directly to the electrical load through the inductance L as shown. When voltage transients or overvoltages are experienced in the power voltage V the first and second voltage clamping devices and conduct the excess voltage from phase to neutral N and limit the ability of such voltage transients or overvoltages from reaching the electrical load . The dissipation of the voltage transients and overvoltages are distributed among the first and second voltage clamping devices and as was described above with respect to the voltage protector . The value of the inductance L is chosen to control how much current flows through the first voltage clamping device and how the energy dissipation is distributed between the first and second voltage clamping devices and .

In this respect the inductance L slows down the speed of voltage transients and overvoltages to provide time for the first voltage clamping device to dissipate at least part of the excess voltage to neutral N before the second voltage clamping device begins to dissipate any remaining excess voltage to neutral N. When the isolation state the switching element R is in the off position and the first voltage clamping device dissipates the excess voltage during the duration of the overvoltage or surge. As a result the second voltage clamping device does not see sustained exposure to the high voltage level across the first voltage clamping device .

The voltage clamping level of the first voltage clamping device may comprise for example 600 volts and the second voltage clamping device may have a clamping level of 300 volts as can be appreciated. Alternatively some other ratio of clamping voltages may exist between the first and second voltage clamping devices and . The specific voltage clamping levels of the first and second voltage clamping devices and may depend upon the nominal value of the power voltage V.

By virtue of the fact that the second voltage clamping device is isolated from the power voltage when the switching element R is in the off position the second voltage clamping device is not exposed to the high voltage surge that is handled by the first voltage clamping device . This prevents overheating and a potential fire hazard under overvoltage conditions.

Upon detecting an overvoltage or a voltage sag in the nominal state then the control logic implements the overvoltage voltage sag routine in which the switching element R is turned off to transition the operation of the processor circuit to the isolation state . When the overvoltage or voltage sag condition has abated the control logic implements the restore power routine to return the operation of the processor circuit to the nominal state .

With reference to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the power up routine according to one embodiment. When power voltage V is initially applied to the voltage protector the switching element R is in the off position thereby coupling the shunt resistance Rin parallel with the electrical load and injecting the resistance R and capacitance C in series with the inductance L between the power voltage and the electrical load . This protects the electrical load from voltage transients and overvoltages until the operation of the processor circuit of the voltage protector is initialized.

Starting with box the processor circuit is initialized while the switching element R remains in an off position. When the processor circuit is initialized as determined in box the power up routine proceeds to box . In box the switching element R is turned on at an optimal point in the cycle of the power voltage V that minimizes an inrush current to the electrical load in a similar manner as was described above with reference to box . Thereafter the power up routine ends and the control logic enters the nominal state .

Referring next to shown is one example of a flowchart that provides one illustration of the overvoltage power sag routine that transitions the control logic from the nominal state to the isolation state according to various embodiments. At the time the overvoltage voltage sag routine is implemented the switching element R is in the on state and the power voltage V is directly applied to the electrical load thereby bypassing the R C snubber as described above.

To begin once an overvoltage or a power sag is detected then in box a timer is initiated to determine the duration of the overvoltage or power sag to determine whether to turn the switching element R off. The duration and magnitude of the overvoltage may be compared with the voltage time curves maintained in a memory of the processor circuit to determine whether the switching element R should be turned off to protect the electrical load and the second voltage clamping device . Alternatively if a power sag is detected then the duration and magnitude of the sag voltage may be compared against thresholds stored in the memory to determine whether intervention is necessary to minimize or reduce harmful in rush current when the power voltage V returns to nominal.

If the overvoltage is greater than a respective voltage time curve threshold or if a voltage sag is deemed severe enough as to result in a potentially harmful in rush current to the electrical load then in box the switching element R is turned off thereby placing the impedance of the RC snubber in series with the electrical load . Also the shunt resistance Ris placed in parallel with the electrical load . In this circumstance the voltage protector is in the isolation state where the electrical load is protected and the second voltage clamping device will not overheat.

Referring next to shown is one example of a flowchart that provides one illustration of the restore power routine that transitions the control logic from the isolation state to the nominal state according to various embodiments in box it is determined whether the power voltage V has returned to nominal. If so then in box the switching element R is turned on at an optimal point in the cycle of the power voltage V that minimizes a potential inrush current to the electrical load in a similar manner as was described above with reference to box . Note that in the case of an overvoltage step may be unnecessary unless the voltage to the electrical load drops significantly due to the voltage lost across the RC snubber. Thereafter the restore power routine ends and the control logic is placed in the nominal state .

Referring next to shown is one example of the processor circuit or according to embodiments of the present disclosure. The processor circuit comprises for example a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus as can be appreciated.

Stored on the memory and executable by the processor are an operating system and the control logic . Also data representing one or more voltage time curves may be stored in the memory or otherwise may be accessible to the processor circuit .

The memory is defined herein as both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive compact discs accessed via a compact disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

In addition the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any one of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The processor may be of electrical or of some other construction as can be appreciated by those with ordinary skill in the art.

The operating system is executed to control the allocation and usage of hardware resources such as the memory processing time and peripheral devices in the processor circuit . In this manner the operating system serves as the foundation on which applications depend as is generally known by those with ordinary skill in the art.

Although the control logic and or are each embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware the control logic or can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates programmable gate arrays PGA field programmable gate arrays FPGA or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The state diagrams and or flow charts of and the functionality and operation of an implementation of the control logic and the control logic . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc if embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the state diagrams and or flow charts of and show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in and may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. R is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present invention.

Also where the control logic and or the control logic comprises software or code each can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present invention a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the control logic and or the control logic for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives or compact discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

The following discussion of relate to determining the optimal point in the power cycle at which to establish the direct coupling of the power voltage V to the electrical load so as to minimize an inrush current to the electrical load . In particular the discussion of describe the control of a thyristor or relay in order to establish the application of power voltage to the electrical load while minimizing an inrush current to the electrical load . Generally the timing at which the thyristor or relay are manipulated to establish the direct coupling applies to the control of the switching element R as described above with reference to .

With reference to shown is a chart that plots a power voltage with respect to time to illustrate the various embodiments of the present disclosure. The power voltage is applied to a load that may comprise for example an inductive load a rectifier load a capacitive load or other type of electrical load as can be appreciated. In the case that the power voltage is applied to a rectifier load then a voltage is generated across a capacitor associated with the rectifier as can be appreciated. In this respect the capacitor facilitates the generation of a DC power source in conjunction with the function of the diodes of the rectifier.

With respect to the capacitor voltage is depicted as the DC voltage that exists across a capacitor associated with the rectifier. From time to time during the steady state operation of the load to which the power voltage is applied a voltage sag may occur in the power voltage . During a voltage sag the capacitor voltage may steadily decrease as the capacitor itself is drained as it supplies current to the electrical load coupled to the rectifier. At the end of a voltage sag it is often the case that the power voltage suddenly returns to a nominal voltage . The nominal voltage is the normal operating voltage of the power voltage .

Depending where in the power voltage cycle that the power voltage returns to the nominal voltage there may be a significant voltage differential Vbetween the power voltage and the capacitor voltage . This voltage differential Vmay ultimately result in a significant inrush current as the load resumes steady state operation. Where the load is a rectifier load then the inrush current occurs due to the fact that the rectifier capacitor needs to be charged up and other components that make up the load may pull more current at the end of the voltage sag .

The magnitude of the inrush current is affected by various load factors such as for example the type of load the condition of load the proximity of the load with respect to the power voltage power supply factors the duration of the voltage sag the line impedance and the location of any transformer associated with the stepping the power voltage up or down and other factors. In addition the magnitude of any inrush current after the occurrence of a voltage sag will depend upon the magnitude of the voltage differential Vthat exists at the instant that the power voltage returns to the nominal voltage . The nominal voltage is defined herein as a nominal value assigned to a circuit or system for the purpose of conveniently designating its voltage class or type. In this sense nominal voltage may comprise a standardized voltage specified for various purposes such as power distribution on a power grid i.e. 120 240 Delta 480 277 Wye 120 208 Wye or other specification. Alternatively the nominal voltage may comprise a standardized voltage in a closed system such as for example a power system on a vehicle such as an airplane etc. A nominal voltage may be for example an AC voltage specified in terms of peak to peak voltage RMS voltage and or frequency. Also a nominal voltage may be a DC voltage specified in terms of a voltage magnitude.

In order to limit the inrush current at the end of a voltage sag according to various embodiments of the present disclosure an impedance is added to the load upon detection of the voltage sag in the power voltage during the steady state operation of the load. In this respect the power voltage is monitored to detect a voltage sag during the steady state operation of the load. Once an occurrence of a voltage sag is detected the impedance is added to the load. Thereafter the impedance is removed when the power voltage has reached a predefined point in the power voltage cycle after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage .

The timing of the removal of the impedance from the load after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage is specified to as to minimize an occurrence of an inrush current surge flowing to the load according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this respect the removal of the impedance from the load is timed at the predefined point on the power voltage cycle of the power voltage .

In one embodiment the impedance is removed from the load when the power voltage is less than a magnitude of the capacitor voltage across a capacitor associated with a rectifier where the load is a rectifier load. In such a scenario given that the line voltage is rectified then it can be said that the impedance is removed from the load when the absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage is less than a magnitude of the voltage across the capacitor associated with the rectifier of the load.

At such time the respective diodes in the rectifier are reversed biased when the absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage is less than the magnitude of the voltage across the capacitor associated with the rectifier of he load. Consequently there is no inrush current when the absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage is less than the magnitude of the voltage across a capacitor associated with a rectifier of the load. Ultimately in this scenario the capacitor associated with the rectifier is charged when the normal peaks of the rectified power voltage are applied to the capacitor rather than experiencing an instantaneous change in the voltage as illustrated by the voltage differential Vdepicted in .

In an additional alternative the impedance is removed from the load at approximately a zero 0 crossing of the power voltage that occurs after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage after the end of a voltage sag . In this respect to be approximate to the zero crossing for example is to be within an acceptable tolerance associated with the zero crossing such that the magnitude of the power voltage is unlikely to be greater than a voltage across a capacitor associated with a rectifier of the load.

In another embodiment the impedance may be removed from the load at approximately a first one of the many zero crossings that occur after the power voltage as returned to the nominal voltage . This is advantageous as the power is returned to the load as soon as possible but in a manner that minimizes the possibility that a significant inrush current will occur.

In yet another embodiment the impedance may be removed from the load at a point on the power voltage cycle that substantially minimizes the differential Vbetween an absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage and a magnitude of the voltage across a capacitor associated with a rectifier of the load. In this respect if the power voltage returns to the nominal voltage at a location in the power voltage cycle such that the magnitude of the power voltage is close to the voltage across the capacitor so that minimal inrush current may result then the impedance may be removed potentially even in a case where the power voltage is on an upswing and is greater than the voltage across the capacitor as long as the voltage differential Vis small enough so as to result in an acceptable amount of inrush current to the load.

In such a case a maximum voltage differential Vmay be specified that results in a maximum allowable inrush current that could be applied to the load where the impedance would not be removed if the actual voltage differential Vis greater than the maximum voltage differential Vspecified. As depicted in the graph of shown is an embodiment in which the impedance is added to the load during the voltage sag and is removed at the point in the power voltage cycle that occurs at a first zero crossing after the power voltage returns to the nominal voltage according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.

With reference next to shown is a schematic of a current limiting circuit according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The power voltage is applied across input nodes as shown. The power voltage may be received from a typical outlet or other power source as can be appreciated. The current limiting circuit includes a transient voltage surge suppressor that is coupled across the input nodes . In addition the current limiting circuit includes a zero crossing detector a sag detector and a gate drive . The power voltage is received as an input into both the zero crossing detector and the sag detector . The output of the zero crossing detector comprises a zero crossing signal that is applied to the gate drive .

The output of the sag detector is also applied to the gate drive . The gate drive controls a thyristor and a relay . In this respect the gate drive controls whether the thyristor and the relay are turned on or off. The relay couples the input nodes to a load . The thyristor couples the input nodes to the load through a resister R. In the embodiment depicted in the input nodes are coupled to the load through resistor Rthat is in parallel with the relay and the thyristor resistor Ras shown.

The load as depicted in comprises a rectifier load having a rectifier . The rectifier includes the diodes and the rectifier capacitor . In addition the load may include other components that receive DC power as can be appreciated. Alternatively the load may be an inductive load or other type of load. The zero crossing detector the sag detector and or the gate drive may be implemented with one or more micro processor circuits digital logic circuitry or analog circuitry as can be appreciated.

Next a general discussion of the operation of the current limiting circuit is provided according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. To begin assume the power voltage comprises a nominal voltage is applied to the load and suddenly experiences a voltage sag . Assuming that the voltage sag lasts a predefined threshold of time where the capacitor voltage across the capacitor drains appreciably a risk is created of a significant inrush current when the power voltage resumes the nominal voltage .

During steady state operation of the load the relay is in a closed position and the power voltage is applied directly to the load through the relay . Given that the relay is a direct electrical connection it presents the path of least resistance for the current flowing to the load . Consequently the current bypasses the resistor R. During the steady state operation of the load the thyristor is also in an off state thereby preventing current from flowing through the resistance R. Once the sag detector detects the voltage sag then the sag detector output directs the gate drive to open the relay . As a result the voltage at the input nodes is applied to the load through the resistor R.

The resistance Ris obviously higher than the near zero resistance presented by the closed relay . By opening the relay the resistor Ris added to the load . The resistance Ris specified so as to limit the current that can flow to the load . This resistance thus limits any current surge that might occur when the voltage returns to nominal and the voltage sag has ended thereby minimizing or eliminating the possibility of damage to electrical components of the load such as diodes in the rectifier or other components.

It should be noted that the resistance Rmay also reduce the voltage that is seen by the load during the voltage sag until either the thyristor is closed turned on or the relay is closed. In this respect the resistance Rcan exacerbate the reduced voltage experienced by the load during the voltage sag . However the reduced voltage due to the resistor Rwill not be much worse than what can typically be experienced by the load without the resistance R. This is especially true if the voltage sag lasts for a short time. If the voltage sag lasts for relatively long time such that the operation of the load is disrupted chances are any reduction in voltage due to the resistance Rwould not be of any consequence.

For maximum protection the current flow through the resistor Rshould be low but as stated above this might increase the possibility of momentary interference with the load operation. Thus the value of the resistance Ris determined based upon a trade off between protection in a multi load environment and the possibility of nuisance interference with the operation of the load . Experiments show that the resistance Rgenerally does not interfere with the load operation for voltage sags of short duration lasting less than five 5 cycles or so.

Once the relay is opened due to the detection of the voltage sag then the current limiting circuit stays in such state until the sag detector detects that the voltage sag has ended. Assuming that the voltage sag has ended then the sag detector output is appropriately altered. In response the gate drive does not dose the relay right away. Rather the relay is maintained in an open state. The gate drive waits until a signal is received from the zero crossing detector indicating that a zero crossing has been reached in the power voltage cycle. The zero crossing output applied to the gate drive indicates the occurrence of all zero crossings.

Upon receiving an indication of a zero crossing after receiving an indication that the voltage sag has ended the gate drive turns on the thyristor to allow current to flow to the load through the thyristor and the resistance R. The resistance Ris specified to protect the thyristor . In particular the resistance Rlimits the worst case current that flows to the load through the thyristor to within the maximum current rating of the thyristor . Thus the resistance Ris less than the resistance Rand effectively allows the nominal power voltage to be applied to the load The thyristor is advantageously employed to cause the power voltage to be reapplied to the load after the end of the voltage sag as the thyristor is much faster in operation than the relay . In this respect the thyristor can be turned on for example within approximately 10 microseconds as opposed to the relay that might take approximately five to ten milliseconds. Because of the speed at which the thyristor can operate the thyristor allows the current limiting circuit to control exactly where on the power voltage cycle that the power voltage is reapplied to the load .

Alternatively if the reaction time of the relay in response to a change in the state of the output signal from the gate drive is sufficiently fast or can be estimated with sufficient accuracy then it may be the case that the relay could be used without the thyristor . Specifically the relay could be triggered to close or turned off in the case of a normally dosed relay at a predefined period of time before a zero crossing is to occur with the anticipation that the relay will actually dose on or near the zero crossing itself. This embodiment would thus eliminate the need for the thyristor and the resistance R.

Once the thyristor has been on for a necessary amount of time to ensure that the capacitor associated with the rectifier is charged enough to avoid significant inrush current or that the load is operational to the extent that it will not cause an undesirable inrush current the gate drive closes the relay to reestablish the conductive pathway between the input nodes and the load . Thereafter the gate drive turns the thyristor off.

Thus to recap the thyristor provides the function of supplying the power voltage to the load after the end of the voltage sag . Given that the resistance Ris the impedance that is added to the load during the voltage sag the thyristor acts to remove the impedance Rto resupply the power voltage to the load where the resistance Ris much less than the resistance R. Thereafter the relay is closed so that a direct conductive pathway is established to the load without any loss to either of the resistances Ror R.

The current limiting circuit illustrates the operation of an embodiment in which the inrush current that flows to the load is minimized after the end of the voltage sag where the impedance represented by the resistance Rthat was added to the load is removed from the load at approximately the zero crossing of the power voltage after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage .

The precise zero crossing detected by the zero crossing detector at which the thyristor is turned on may be the first zero crossing that occurs after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage . Alternatively the zero crossing at which the thyristor is turned on may be any zero crossing that occurs after the power voltage has returned to the nominal voltage with the understanding that it may be favorable to turn the thyristor on as soon as possible so as to reestablish the power voltage at the load so that the load is not adversely affected.

In addition the resistance Ris specified so that the thyristor does not experience currents that are too high that may adversely affect its operation taking into account how long the thyristor would have to stay on given the zero crossing or other point at which the thyristor would be turned on after the voltage sag has ended.

Referring next to shown is a current limiting circuit according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The current limiting circuit is similar in function with respect to the current limiting function except that the resistance Ris not employed. In this respect the impedance added to the load is the equivalent of an infinite resistance or an open circuit. In all other ways the operation of the current limiting circuit is the same as described above with respect to .

In addition the current limiting circuit provides additional capability in that it can isolate the load from the power voltage such as might be desirable in a case where sustained undervoltages or overvoltages occur that may be dangerous for the load . The current limiting circuit may also be configured isolate the load in the case of an undervoltage or overvoltage that might present a danger for the load by including a second relay in series with the resistance Rthat would open up to isolate the load from the power voltage . In case an undervoltage or overvoltage is detected a relay may be opened at the same time that the relay is opened.

Turning then to shown is a current limiting circuit according to yet another embodiment of the present disclosure. The current limiting circuit is similar to the current limiting circuit with the exception that the zero crossing detector in the current limiting circuit has been replaced by the impedance removal timing circuit that generates an impedance removal signal that is applied to the gate drive . The current limiting circuit operates in much the same way as the current limiting circuit with the exception that the impedance removal timing circuit receives the voltage across the capacitor of the rectifier as an input. This voltage may be compared with the power voltage that is received as another input.

In this respect the impedance removal timing circuit may send the signal to the gate drive to energize the thyristor to supply current to the load when conditions other than zero crossings occur that will allow the load to be supplied with the line voltage without causing an undesirable inrush current surge. In particular the conditions may comprise for example when the absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage is less than the magnitude of the rectified voltage across the capacitor associated with the rectifier of the load. In this respect the voltage differential V does not exist such that a significant inrush current surge is not likely to be experienced.

Alternatively the impedance removal timing circuit may generate the impedance removal output signal that causes the gate drive to energize the thyristor to remove the impedance from the load at any point on the power voltage cycle of the power voltage that substantially minimizes a differential between the absolute value of the magnitude of the power voltage and a magnitude of the rectified voltage across the capacitor that is associated with the load.

Referring next to shown is a chart that plots an example of the magnitude of the peak value of the inrush current surge that flows into a load as a function of the duration of a voltage sag in terms of line voltage cycles. As shown in the peak value of the measured inrush current surge is depicted for various values of voltage sag duration for a typical liquid crystal monitor load. The inrush current surge has an upper envelope depicting the worst case stresses that are possible and a lower envelope that shows significantly lower inrush current values that may be achieved when normal load operation is resumed coincident with a line zero voltage crossing. The upper envelope follows the upper peaks of the inrush current surge and the lower envelope follows the lower peaks of the inrush current surge .

As can be seen the peak value of the measured inrush current surge potentially increases in time in proportion with the decay for example of the voltage experienced across a capacitor during a voltage sag . Even with the increase of the size of the peaks of the inrush current surge as the duration of the voltage sag increases there are still significant valleys and lower currents throughout the voltage sag duration. As such it is desirable to ensure that the inrush current surge falls at the bottom of a valley of the various peaks shown which generally coincide with the zero crossings of the power voltage as can be appreciated.

Turning then to shown is a processor circuit according to an embodiment of the present disclosure that provides one example of an implementation of the gate drive according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As depicted a processor circuit is shown having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying control address bus as can be appreciated by those with ordinary skill in the art. In this respect the processor circuit may comprise any one of a number of different commercially available processor circuits. Alternatively the processor circuit may be implemented as part of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or may be implemented in some other manner as can be appreciated. It is also possible that the logic control functions can be implemented without a microprocessor.

Stored on the memory and executable by the processor is gate drive logic . The gate drive logic is executed to control the function of the gate drive in controlling the opening and dosing of the relay and to turn the thyristor on or off. In addition an operating system may also stored on the memory and executed by the processor as can be appreciated. Still further other logic in addition to the gate drive logic may be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . For example logic that implements the functions of the zero crossing detector sag detector or or the impedance removal timing circuit may be implemented on the processor circuit as can be appreciated. Alternatively separate processor circuits may be employed to implement each of the gate drive zero crossing detector sag detector or the impedance removal timing circuit .

The gate drive logic zero crossing detector sag detector and or the impedance removal timing circuit is described as being stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . The term executable as employed herein means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor or source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a of random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory read only memory a hard drive compact disk CD floppy disk or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive compact discs accessed via a compact disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

In addition the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any one of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The processor may be of electrical optical or molecular construction or of some other construction as can be appreciated by those with ordinary skill in the art.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart that provides one example of the operation of the gate drive logic according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Alternatively the flow chart of may be viewed as depicting steps of an example of a method implemented by the processor circuit to prevent an inrush current surge to the load after a voltage sag . The functionality of the gate drive logic as depicted by the example flow chart of may be implemented for example in an object oriented design or in some other programming architecture. Assuming the functionality is implemented in an object oriented design then each block represents functionality that may be implemented in one or more methods that are encapsulated in one or more objects. The gate drive logic may be implemented using any one of a number of programming languages as can be appreciated.

Beginning with box the gate drive logic determines whether a voltage sag has been detected. This may be determined by examining the output of the sag detector as described above. Assuming that a voltage sag has been detected then in box the relay is opened thereby disrupting the flow of current through the relay to the load . As such any reduced current flowing to the load due to the voltage sag flows to the load through the resistor Ror does not flow at all as is the case for example with the current limiting circuit . Next in box the gate drive logic determines whether the power voltage has returned to a nominal value. This may be determined based upon a signal received from the sag detector that indicates that the voltage sag has ended.

Assuming that such is the case then the gate drive logic proceeds to box in which it is determined whether to apply the power voltage to the load . In this respect the gate drive logic waits for the optimal time to return the power voltage to the load so as to minimize the potential inrush current to the load . This determination may be made by examining the output from either the zero crossing detector or the impedance removal timing circuit as described above. The zero crossing detector or the impedance removal timing circuit provide a signal or that indicates when the thyristor should be turned on in order to provide current to the load as described above.

Alternatively the relay may be turned on in box instead of a thyristor where the actual closing of the relay may be timed so as to coincide with a zero crossing or other location on the power voltage cycle for example where the future zero crossing or other location on the power voltage cycle can be predicted given a known response time of the relay itself. As such the gate drive logic would end if the relay is turned on in box However it should be noted that the relay might be inconsistent in its response time thereby resulting in variation in when it will actually dose and couple the power voltage to the load . Thus the reduction of any inrush current may be adversely affected to some degree.

However assuming that the thyristor is turned on in box then the gate drive logic proceeds to box to determine whether the surge current has been avoided. This may be determined by allowing a certain period of time to pass within which it is known that any potential current surge is likely to be dissipated.

Then in box the relay is closed thereby providing power to the load through the relay . Once the relay is closed then in box the thyristor is turned off since the load is now being supplied through the relay . Thereafter the gate drive logic ends as shown.

While the gate drive logic zero crossing detector sag detector and or the impedance removal timing circuit may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware the gate drive logic zero crossing detector sag detector and or the impedance removal timing circuit can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates programmable gate arrays PGA field programmable gate arrays FPGA or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flow chart of shows the architecture functionality and operation of an example implementation of the gate drive logic . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although flow chart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also where the gate drive logic zero crossing detector sag detector and or the impedance removal timing circuit comprises software or code each can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the gate drive logic zero crossing detector sag detector and or the impedance removal timing circuit for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives or compact discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

