---

title: System and method of interacting with home automation systems via a set-top box device
abstract: The subject disclosure describes among other things receiving user input that includes a device configuration for a device in a home automation system, where the device configuration specifies a triggering event and a response to the triggering event. The subject disclosure also describes transmitting the device configuration to the device, receiving data from the device, where the data indicates that the triggering event has been detected by the device, presenting an alert indicating that the triggering event has been detected by device, where the alert includes selectable options for responding to the alert, identifying the device detecting the triggering event, and altering an operation of the device. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571884&OS=09571884&RS=09571884
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09571884
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130228
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 059 726 filed Mar. 31 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to interacting with home automation systems via a set top box device.

Television viewing is a common activity. A viewer may desire a variety of devices at a home to provide different functions during a television program without close viewer proximity to each device. In addition the viewer may desire to be notified of certain activities in parts of the home where the viewer is not present.

The numerous innovative teachings of the present application will be described with particular reference to the presently preferred exemplary embodiments. However it should be understood that this class of embodiments provides only a few examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings herein. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed systems methods or computer readable media. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others.

In a particular embodiment the set top box device is adapted to receive settings associated with one or more of the home automation systems . The settings at least partially relate to triggering events corresponding to the home automation system s . The settings can specify one or more triggering events responses to each of the triggering event s whether a user is to be alerted of each of the triggering event s whether the set top box device is to provide an interface to receive user input in response to each of the triggering event s other settings or any combination thereof.

For example the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings associated with an environmental system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a particular temperature is detected by an HVAC system inside the user s home when a certain temperature is detected outside the user s home when a hazard is detected such as smoke fire a water leak or a gas leak when another environmental triggering event occurs or any combination thereof.

In another example the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings associated with a lighting system indicating that one or more lights within the user s home are to be changed when instructed by the set top box device when the user is detected coming into the home when the user is away from the home at a certain time of day when a possible intrusion is detected by a security system when a doorbell rings when other lighting triggering events occur or any combination thereof.

In a further example the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings associated with an in home monitoring system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a threshold noise level is detected by the in home monitoring system e.g. a noise level associated with a baby crying when a computing system within the home accesses the Internet when another in home monitoring triggering event occurs or any combination thereof. In an additional example the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings associated with a security system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a noise level noise frequency other noise characteristic or any combination thereof is detected e.g. a window breaking pool water splashing when a motion is detected when an entry to the home or associated property is opened e.g. a door or a gate when a doorbell rings when another security triggering event occurs or any combination thereof.

In still another example the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings indicating that one or more responses e.g. implement a certain lighting scene silence one or more phones etc. are to be implemented at a start time of a particular television program such as a video on demand movie or upon selection of a channel a type of television program or a combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the set top box device can be adapted to receive settings associated with various home automation systems via one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs application programming interfaces APIs or any combination thereof. For instance the set top box device can be adapted to provide one or more interfaces at the display device and to receive inputs via the interfaces from a remote control a keyboard another input device or any combination thereof.

The set top box device is adapted to send data indicating user settings to corresponding home automation systems via the residential gateway . The settings data can include data specifying a triggering event data indicating that the set top box device is to be notified of the triggering event other settings data related to user settings or any combination thereof. For instance the set top box device can be adapted to send settings data to an environmental system indicating that the detection of a particular temperature is a triggering event. In another example the set top box device can be adapted to send data to a security system or in home monitoring system indicating that the detection of a threshold noise level is a triggering event.

The set top box device is adapted to detect a triggering event. In one embodiment the set top box device can detect a triggering event in response to data received from a home automation system indicating that the triggering event has occurred. For instance if an in home monitoring system detects a threshold noise level that has been set as a triggering event the in home monitoring system is adapted to send data to the set top box device indicating that the threshold noise level has been detected. In another embodiment the set top box device can detect a triggering event that occurs at the set top box device such as a user selecting a channel a television program a type of television program or a combination thereof.

The set top box device is adapted to access user settings related to a triggering event when the set top box device detects the triggering event. The set top box device is adapted to determine based on the user settings whether it is to alert a user in response to detecting the triggering event. For instance if the triggering event is a detection of a threshold noise level by an in home monitoring system the set top box device can be adapted to determine that it is to alert the user. Whereas if the triggering event is the selection of a television program by the user the set top box device can be adapted to determine that it is not to alert the user. If the set top box device determines that it is to alert the user the set top box device provides an alert to the user via the display device . The alert can include video audio text graphics or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the alert can include displaying content from a web camera or other camera associated with a home automation system via a picture in picture PIP display at the display device.

The set top box device is adapted to determine based on user settings whether it is to provide an input interface at the display device in response to the triggering event. For example where the triggering event includes the detection of a particular indoor temperature the set top box device can be adapted to provide a graphical user interface at the display device that includes selectable indicators of one or more options such as activation or deactivation of a heater or air conditioner a desired indoor temperature other options or any combination thereof. The set top box device is adapted to receive user input via the interface.

Additionally the set top box device is adapted to determine whether it is to implement a response to the triggering event based on user settings user input or a combination thereof. In a particular embodiment a response can include alteration of at least one device associated with at least one home automation system . For example if the triggering event is the selection of a particular television program the set top box device can be adapted to determine based on user settings that the set top box device is to send data instructing a lighting system to change one or more lights to achieve a lighting scene specified by the user settings. In another example if the set top box device has received user input specifying a desired indoor temperature the set top box device can be adapted to determine that it is to send data instructing an environmental system to activate or deactivate a heater or air conditioner. The set top box device is adapted to send data to a corresponding home automation system instructing the home automation system to implement the response by altering one or more devices associated with the home automation system.

Each home automation system is adapted to receive and store settings data from the set top box device . The settings data can include for example one or more triggering events detectable by the home automation system an indication that the set top box device is to be notified of a triggering event other data or any combination thereof. The home automation system is adapted to detect a triggering event and to send data to the set top box device indicating that the triggering event has occurred. In one embodiment the home automation system can be adapted to send video content from a web camera or other camera to the set top box device according to settings data or an instruction received from the set top box device .

Further each home automation system is adapted to alter a device associated with the home automation system in response to an instruction received from the set top box device e.g. in response to a triggering event at the home automation system at the set top box device at another home automation system or any combination thereof.

The home automation systems can include an environmental system which may be adapted to communicate with an HVAC system one or more thermometers one or more hazard detection devices other environmental devices or any combination thereof. The home automation systems can also include a lighting system that is adapted to communicate with one or more lights switches dimmers or any combination thereof. Further the home automation systems can include a security system that is adapted to communicate with one or more security cameras one or more motion detectors one or more security system control devices or any combination thereof. In addition the home automation systems can include an in home monitoring system such as a child monitoring system that communicates with a web camera or other camera a microphone a computing device other devices or any combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment the set top box device includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . In addition the set top box device can include a network interface adapted to facilitate communication between the notification system and the residential gateway . In an illustrative embodiment the set top box device can include a display interface adapted to facilitate communication between the set top box device and the display device . Further the set top box device can include a remote interface adapted to facilitate communication between the set top box device and a remote control device .

The memory includes a plurality of modules . The modules can include computer instructions that are readable and executable by the processing logic to implement various functions of the notification system with respect to delivering home monitoring automation system alerts. For example the modules can represent various aspects of one or more software applications operating systems or other computer programs. In other embodiments the modules can be implemented as hardware logic or a combination of hardware logic and computer instructions.

The memory includes a display module that is executable by the processing logic to receive video content via the IPTV access network and to send the video content to the display device via the display interface . The memory also includes an API module that is executable by the processing logic to provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs at the display device and to receive settings associated with one or more of the home automation systems via the set top box device . The settings can specify one or more triggering events responses to each of the triggering event s whether a user is to be alerted of each of the triggering event s whether the set top box device is to provide an interface to receive user input in response to each of the triggering event s other settings or any combination thereof.

For example the API module can be adapted to receive settings associated with an environmental system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a particular temperature is detected by an HVAC system inside the user s home when a certain temperature is detected outside the user s home when a hazard is detected when another environmental triggering event occurs or any combination thereof.

In another example the API module can be executable by the processing logic receive settings associated with a lighting system indicating that one or more lights within the user s home are to be changed when instructed by the set top box device when the user is detected coming into the home by the security system when the user is away from the home at a certain time of day when a possible intrusion is detected by the security system when a doorbell rings when other lighting triggering events occur or any combination thereof.

In a further example the API module can be executable by the processing logic to receive settings associated with an in home monitoring system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a threshold noise level is detected by the in home monitoring system e.g. a noise level associated with a baby crying when a computing system within the home accesses the Internet when another in home monitoring triggering event occurs or any combination thereof.

In an additional example the API module can be executable by the processing logic to receive settings associated with a security system indicating that the user is to be alerted when a threshold noise level is detected e.g. a window breaking pool water splashing when a motion is detected when an entry to the home or associated property is opened e.g. a door or a gate when a doorbell rings when another security triggering event occurs or any combination thereof.

In still another example the API module can be executable by the processing logic to receive settings associated with the set top box device indicating that one or more responses e.g. implement a certain lighting scene silence one or more phones etc. are to be implemented at a start time of a particular television program such as a video on demand movie or upon selection of a channel a type of television program or a combination thereof.

The memory includes a data store to store user settings. In addition the memory includes an HAS module that is executable by the processing logic to send data indicating user settings to corresponding home automation systems. The settings data can include data specifying a triggering event data indicating that the set top box device is to be notified of the triggering event other settings data related to user settings or any combination thereof. For instance the HAS module can be executable by the processing logic to send settings data to the environmental system indicating a particular indoor temperature that a user has set a triggering event. In another example the HAS module can be executable by the processing logic to send settings data to the security system or the in home monitoring system indicating a threshold noise level that a user has set as a triggering event.

The memory includes an event module that is executable by the processing logic to detect a triggering event. In one embodiment the event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect a triggering event in response to data received from a home automation system indicating that the triggering event has occurred. For instance the environmental system can be adapted to detect an indoor temperature at a thermostat associated with the HVAC system at the user s home where the indoor temperature has been set by a user as a triggering event. The environmental system can be adapted to send data to the set top box device via the HAS controller indicating that the indoor temperature has been detected. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect that a triggering event has occurred based on the data received from the environmental system indicating that the indoor temperature has been detected.

In another example the environmental system can be adapted to detect an outdoor temperature e.g. a freezing temperature at a thermometer at the user s home where the outdoor temperature has been set by a user as a triggering event. The environmental system can be adapted to send data to the set top box device via the HAS controller indicating that the outdoor temperature has been detected. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect that a triggering event has occurred based on the data received from the environmental system indicating that the outdoor temperature has been detected.

In a further example the environmental system can be adapted to detect a hazard via a hazard detection device such as a smoke detector fire alarm gas detector water leak detector or other hazard detection device where the hazard has been set by a user as a triggering event. The environmental system can be adapted to send data to the set top box device via the HAS controller indicating that the hazard has been detected. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect that a triggering event has occurred based on the data received from the environmental system indicating that the hazard has been detected.

In an additional example the security system can be adapted to detect a doorbell ringing a possible intrusion a user coming into the home or another security triggering event via at least one security camera at least one motion detector at least one security system controller other device or any combination thereof. The security system can be adapted to send data to the set top box device via the HAS controller indicating that the security triggering event has been detected. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect that a triggering event has occurred based on the data received from the security system indicating that the hazard has been detected.

In another example the in home monitoring system can be adapted to detect a baby crying breaking glass a computing device connecting to the Internet or another in home triggering event via at least one web camera at least one microphone at least one computing device another device or any combination thereof. The in home monitoring system can be adapted to send data to the set top box device via the HAS controller indicating that the in home triggering event has been detected. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to detect that a triggering event has occurred based on the data received from the in home monitoring system indicating that the hazard has been detected.

In still another example the set top box device can be adapted to detect a triggering event that occurs at the set top box device such as a user selecting a channel a television program a type of television program or a combination thereof set by a user as a triggering event. In other examples the set top box device can detect one or more other triggering events based on data received from other home automation systems indicating that triggering events set by a user have occurred.

The event module is executable by the processing logic to access user settings corresponding to a detected triggering event. The event module is executable by the processing logic is adapted to determine based on the user settings whether it is to alert a user in response to detecting the triggering event. For instance if the triggering event is a detection of a temperature a hazard a threshold noise level a security event an in home triggering event the event module can be executable by the processing logic determine that the user is to be alerted. On the other hand if the triggering event is the selection of a television program by the user the event module can be executable by the processing logic determine that the user is not to be alerted.

The event module is executable by the processing logic to provide an alert to the user via the display device when the set top box device is to alert the user. The alert can include video audio text graphics or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the alert can include displaying content from a web camera or other camera via a picture in picture PIP display at the display device. For instance if the triggering event is the detection of a threshold noise level by the in home monitoring system the HAS module can be executable by the processing logic to send a command to the in home monitoring system to activate the web camera and to send video content from the web camera to the set top box device . The display module can be executable by the processing logic to send the video content received from the web camera to the display device for display via a PIP display .

In another example if the triggering event is a doorbell ringing or possible intrusion the HAS module can be executable by the processing logic to send a command to the security system to activate the security camera e.g. a camera with a view of a front door and to send video content from the security camera to the set top box device . The display module can be executable by the processing logic to send the video content received from the security camera to the display device for display via the PIP display .

In one embodiment the event module is executable by the processing logic to determine based on user settings whether it is to provide an input interface in response to the triggering event. In a particular embodiment a response can include alteration of at least one device associated with at least one home automation system . For example where the triggering event includes the detection of a particular indoor temperature the event module can be executable by the processing logic to provide a graphical user interface at the display device that includes selectable indicators of one or more options such as activation or deactivation of a heater or air conditioner a desired indoor temperature other options or any combination thereof.

In a particular embodiment the event module is executable by the processing logic to determine whether it is to respond to the triggering event based on settings saved at the set top box device based on user input received via an interface provided at the display device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the event module can be adapted to provide a graphical user interface GUI or other interface in conjunction with an alert. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to receive input from a user via the interface where the interface provides the user with one or more options to respond to the alert.

A response can include sending data to one or more of the home automation systems . For example if the set top box device detects a triggering event that includes a user selection of a particular television program the set top box device event module can be executable by the processing logic to send data to a lighting system to change the level of one or more lights according to user settings. In another example if the triggering event includes detection of a particular temperature within the home the event module can be executable by the processing logic to alert the user according to user settings and to receive user input indicating that an air conditioner or heater is to be activated or deactivated. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to send data to the HVAC system indicating that the air conditioner or heater is to be activated or deactivated according to the user input. In an additional example the event module can be executable by the processing logic to alert the user of a hazard detected by a hazard detection device and to receive user input indicating that the hazard detection device e.g. a smoke detector is to be silenced or deactivated. The event module can be executable by the processing logic to send data to the HVAC system indicating that the hazard detection device is to be silenced or deactivated according to the user input.

Proceeding to block the set top box device detects a triggering event. The set top box device can detect a triggering event in response to data received from a home automation system indicating that the triggering event has occurred. The set top box device can also detect a triggering event that occurs at the set top box device such as a user selecting a channel a television program a type of television program or a combination thereof.

Continuing to block the set top box device accesses user settings corresponding to the triggering event. Advancing to decision node the set top box device determines based on the user settings whether it is to alert the user of the triggering event. If the set top box device is not to alert the user the method advances to decision node . Conversely if the set top box device determines that it is to alert the user the method moves to block and the set top box device provides an alert to the user at a display device coupled to the set top box device. The alert can include video audio text graphics or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the alert can include video shown in a picture in picture PIP display from a web camera associated with a home automation system. In another illustrative embodiment the alert can include text scrolling at the display device.

Proceeding to decision node the set top box device determines based on user settings whether it is to provide an input interface in response to the triggering event. For example where the triggering event includes the detection of a particular indoor temperature the set top box device can provide a graphical user interface at the display device that includes selectable indicators of one or more options such as activation or deactivation of a heater or air conditioner a desired indoor temperature other options or any combination thereof. If the set top box device determines that it is to provide an input interface in response to the triggering event the method continues to block . At block the set top box device provides the input interface at the display device and receives user input via the interface.

Advancing to decision node the set top box device determines whether it is to implement a response to the triggering event based on user settings user input or a combination thereof. If the set top box device determines that it is to implement a response the method moves to block and the set top box device implements the response according to user settings user inputs or a combination thereof. For example if the triggering event is the selection of a particular television program the set top box device can determine based on user settings that the set top box device is to send data instructing a lighting system to change one or more lights to achieve a lighting scene specified by the user settings. In another example if the set top box device has received user input specifying a desired indoor temperature the set top box device can determine that it is to send data instructing an environmental system to activate or deactivate a heater or air conditioner.

Moving to block in a particular embodiment the set top box device sends settings data to the home automation system specifying the triggering event s indicating that the set top box device is to be notified of each of the triggering event s other settings data related to user settings or any combination thereof.

Proceeding to block the set top box device receives data from the home automation system indicating that a triggering event has occurred. Continuing to block the set top box device accesses user settings corresponding to the triggering event. Advancing to block the set top box device receives video content from a web camera associated with the home automation system. In one embodiment the set top box device can pull the video from the web camera via the home automation system after the set top box device is notified of the triggering event. In another embodiment the settings data sent by the set top box device can indicate that the set top box device is to receive the video content from the web camera after the home automation system detects the triggering event.

At block the set top box device automatically provides the video content to a picture in picture PIP display at a display device coupled to the set top box device. In other embodiments the set top box device can send an alert containing audio text graphics or a combination thereof to the display device and can provide the video content to the PIP display in response to a user command. Moving to decision node the set top box device determines whether it has received a command to end the PIP display. If the set top box device has received such a command the method terminates at .

Moving to block the home automation system determines whether it has detected a triggering event. If the home automation system has not detected a triggering event the method proceeds to decision node . On the other hand if the home automation system has detected a triggering event the method continues to block and the home automation system sends data to the set top box device indicating that the triggering event has occurred.

Advancing to decision node the home automation system determines whether it has received an instruction from the set top box device to alter a device e.g. in response to a triggering event at the home automation system at the set top box device at another home automation system or any combination thereof. If the home automation system has not received such an instruction the method terminates at . Whereas if the home automation system has received an instruction from the set top box device the method moves to block and the home automation alters the device according to the set top box device instruction. Altering a device can include for instance activating or deactivating a heater or air conditioner or changing one or more lights.

Proceeding to decision node the home automation system determines whether it has received new settings data from the set top box device. If the home automation system receives new settings data the method continues to block and the home automation system updates settings data stored at the home automation system. The method terminates at .

Moving to block the home automation system detects a triggering event. For example the in home automation system can detect the noise characteristic s indicated by settings data received from the set top box device. Proceeding to block the home automation system sends data to the set top box device indicating that the triggering event has occurred. Continuing to block the home automation system sends video content from the web camera to the set top box device. Advancing to decision node the home automation system determines whether it has received an instruction from the set top box device to stop sending video. If the home automation system receives such an instruction the method terminates at .

In some embodiments the methods described in can be performed as described. In other embodiments some aspects of the methods can be performed in alternative sequences or simultaneously.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media. The network interface device can provide connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or other network.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the Figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. .sctn.1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description of the Drawings various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description of the Drawings with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosed subject matter. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present disclosed subject matter is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

