---

title: Ordered subsets with momentum for X-ray CT image reconstruction
abstract: Methods, systems, and non-transitory computer readable media for image reconstruction are presented. Measured data corresponding to a subject is received. A preliminary image update in a particular iteration is determined based on one or more image variables computed using at least a subset of the measured data in the particular iteration. Additionally, at least one momentum term is determined based on the one or more image variables computed in the particular iteration and/or one or more further image variables computed in one or more iterations preceding the particular iteration. Further, a subsequent image update is determined using the preliminary image update and the momentum term. The preliminary image update and/or the subsequent image update are iteratively computed for a plurality of iterations until one or more termination criteria are satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489752&OS=09489752&RS=09489752
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09489752
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This non provisional application relates to and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 728 909 filed Nov. 21 2012 which is herein incorporated in its entirety by reference.

This invention was made with government support under 1 R01 HL 098686 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to diagnostic imaging and more particularly to methods and systems for fast and iterative image reconstruction.

Non invasive imaging techniques are widely used in diagnostic imaging applications such as security screening quality control and medical imaging systems. Particularly in medical imaging non invasive imaging techniques such as computed tomography CT are used for unobtrusive convenient and fast imaging of underlying tissues and organs. Some CT systems employ direct reconstruction techniques such as filtered back projection FBP that allow reconstruction of a three dimensional 3D image data set in a single reconstruction step. Thus the direct reconstruction techniques are generally fast and computationally efficient.

Alternatively some CT systems employ iterative reconstruction techniques that iteratively update a reconstructed image volume. Typically the iterative reconstruction techniques are employed to provide greater flexibility in imaging applications than available when using the direct reconstruction techniques. Specifically the iterative reconstruction techniques find use in imaging applications that entail selective and or interactive enhancement of imaging metrics and or protocols based on specific requirements. For example the iterative reconstruction techniques provide greater flexibility in configuring acquisition geometry and or modeling physical effects to improve one or more imaging metrics such as reducing radiation dose noise and or other imaging artifacts.

Iterative reconstruction techniques however involve long and complex computations that are generally much slower than the direct reconstruction techniques. Certain techniques have been proposed for reducing computational costs of iterative reconstruction for example using ordered subsets OS or relaxation factors. OS algorithms in particular are used in CT imaging to accelerate image reconstruction by using only a subset of measured projection data in each image update. Although using only a subset of the measured projection data in the OS algorithms entails approximations the OS algorithms provide dramatic initial acceleration. Such conventional OS algorithms however still employ a number of iterations to converge and involve long computations thus limiting use of the OS algorithms in clinical settings.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure methods systems and non transitory computer readable media for image reconstruction are presented. Measured data corresponding to a subject is received. A preliminary image update in a particular iteration is determined based on one or more image variables computed using at least a subset of the measured data in the particular iteration. Additionally at least one momentum term is determined based on the one or more image variables computed in the particular iteration and or one or more further image variables computed in one or more iterations preceding the particular iteration. Further a subsequent image update is determined using the preliminary image update and the momentum term. The preliminary image update and or the subsequent image update are iteratively computed for a plurality of iterations until one or more termination criteria are satisfied.

The following description presents systems and methods for fast and iterative image reconstruction. Particularly certain embodiments illustrated herein describe methods and systems for faster convergence of iterative image reconstruction using OS and momentum. As used herein the term momentum may be used to refer to information derived from one or more previous iterations that may be used in computations corresponding to a current iteration for accelerating convergence of the iterative image reconstruction particularly in the early iterations.

Although the following description describes embodiments for fast and iterative image reconstruction in the context of medical diagnostic imaging using a CT system the present disclosure may be implemented in various other medical imaging systems and applications. Some of these systems may include an X ray system a positron emission tomography PET scanner a PET CT scanner a single photon emission computed tomography SPECT scanner a SPECT CT scanner an X ray tomosynthesis system and or an MR CT scanner.

In addition to medical diagnostic imaging embodiments of the present disclosure may also be employed in other non invasive imaging contexts to generate images with minimal processing and memory utilization. By way of example embodiments of the present disclosure may be used in baggage screening and or industrial nondestructive evaluation of manufactured parts. An exemplary environment that is suitable for practicing various implementations of the present disclosure will be discussed in the following sections with reference to .

In certain embodiments the CT system further includes an image processing unit configured to reconstruct images of a target volume of the patient using an iterative reconstruction method. In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure the CT system performs an OS based iterative reconstruction using momentum to substantially accelerate the convergence of the OS based iterative image reconstruction without any significant sacrifice to image quality. The fast and accurate image reconstruction reduces scanning time and radiation dose while also allowing for early diagnosis and or treatment of the patient. Another exemplary embodiment of an imaging system that allows for faster image reconstruction using the OS based iterative reconstruction aided by momentum will be described in greater detail with reference to .

In certain embodiments the system is configured to traverse different angular positions around the subject for acquiring desired projection data. Accordingly the gantry and the components mounted thereon may be configured to rotate about a center of rotation for acquiring the projection data for example at different energy levels. Alternatively in embodiments where a projection angle relative to the subject varies as a function of time the mounted components may be configured to move along a general curve rather than along a segment of a circle.

In one embodiment the system includes a control mechanism to control movement of the components such as rotation of the gantry and the operation of the X ray radiation source . In certain embodiments the control mechanism further includes an X ray controller configured to provide power and timing signals to the radiation source . Additionally the control mechanism includes a gantry motor controller configured to control a rotational speed and or position of the gantry based on imaging requirements.

In certain embodiments the control mechanism further includes a data acquisition system DAS configured to sample analog data received from the detector elements and convert the analog data to digital signals for subsequent processing. The data sampled and digitized by the DAS is transmitted to a computing device . In one example the computing device stores the data in a storage device . The storage device for example may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a compact disk read write CD R W drive a Digital Versatile Disc DVD drive a flash drive and or a solid state storage device.

Additionally the computing device provides commands and parameters to one or more of the DAS the X ray controller and the gantry motor controller for controlling system operations such as data acquisition and or processing. In certain embodiments the computing device controls system operations based on operator input. The computing device receives the operator input for example including commands and or scanning parameters via an operator console operatively coupled to the computing device . The operator console may include a keyboard not shown or a touchscreen to allow the operator to specify the commands and or scanning parameters.

Although illustrates only one operator console more than one operator console may be coupled to the system for example for inputting or outputting system parameters requesting examinations and or viewing images. Further in certain embodiments the system may be coupled to multiple displays printers workstations and or similar devices located either locally or remotely for example within an institution or hospital or in an entirely different location via one or more configurable wired and or wireless networks such as the Internet and or virtual private networks.

In one embodiment for example the system either includes or is coupled to a picture archiving and communications system PACS . In an exemplary implementation the PACS is further coupled to a remote system such as a radiology department information system hospital information system and or to an internal or external network not shown to allow operators at different locations to supply commands and parameters and or gain access to the image data.

The computing device uses the operator supplied and or system defined commands and parameters to operate a table motor controller which in turn may control a motorized table . Particularly the table motor controller moves the table for appropriately positioning the subject in the gantry for acquiring projection data corresponding to the target volume of the subject .

As previously noted the DAS samples and digitizes the projection data acquired by the detector elements . Subsequently an image reconstructor uses the sampled and digitized X ray data to perform high speed reconstruction. Although illustrates the image reconstructor as a separate entity in certain embodiments the image reconstructor may form part of the computing device . Alternatively the image reconstructor may be absent from the system and instead the computing device may perform one or more functions of the image reconstructor . Moreover the image reconstructor may be located locally or remotely and may be operatively connected to the system using a wired or wireless network. Particularly one exemplary embodiment may use computing resources in a cloud network cluster for the image reconstructor .

Typically iterative image reconstruction algorithms are implemented by forming an objective or cost function that incorporates an accurate system model statistical noise model and or prior model. The image is then reconstructed by computing an estimate that minimizes the resulting cost function. Various algorithms may be used for minimizing the cost function. For example sequential algorithms such as iterative coordinate descent ICD may be employed as these have fast convergence rates if given a good initial estimate. However the sequential algorithms entail column access to a system matrix and have relatively large computation cost per iteration. Simultaneous algorithms such as gradient based methods used with various surrogate functions may provide a higher level of parallelism. However standard parallelizable algorithms may converge slowly and may require excessive computation to produce a useful image.

Accordingly several approaches have been proposed to accelerate simultaneous algorithms. Particularly in a presently contemplated embodiment the image reconstructor performs iterative image reconstruction using OS and momentum. An OS based iterative image reconstruction uses only a subset of the projection data per image update or sub iteration. Accordingly the measured data is divided into M subsets and each sub iteration computes an update using only one subset of the data thereby substantially reducing the computational effort and or memory access involved in the iterative image reconstruction. Furthermore use of one or more momentum terms for example derived using Nesterov s algorithms accelerates the OS based iterative image reconstruction towards a desired optimum.

Particularly in one embodiment the image reconstructor combines the OS based iterative image reconstruction with momentum terms to aid in achieving a convergence rate of O 1 Mk in early iterations where k counts the number of iterations and M denotes the number of subsets. More specifically the convergence rate of O 1 Mk may be achieved by combining OS based iterative image reconstruction for example with Nesterov s momentum terms. In contrast the convergence rate of the conventional OS based iterative reconstruction is only O 1 Mk in early iterations. In certain embodiments the image reconstructor further combines separable quadratic surrogates SQS and or a non uniform NU surrogate approach with momentum terms to allow for faster convergence even with a relatively small number of subsets.

In one embodiment the image reconstructor stores the images reconstructed using the OS based iterative image reconstruction with the momentum terms in the storage device . Alternatively the image reconstructor transmits the reconstructed images to the computing device for generating useful patient information for diagnosis and evaluation. In certain embodiments the computing device transmits the reconstructed images and or the patient information to a display communicatively coupled to the computing device and or the image reconstructor .

In one embodiment the display allows the operator to evaluate the imaged anatomy. The display may also allow the operator to select a volume of interest VOI and or request patient information for example via graphical user interface GUI for a subsequent scan or processing. Further the system performs the iterative image reconstruction using projection data acquired from the selected VOI using a combination of OS methods with momentum terms. In one example the momentum terms may be similar to the terms derived by Nesterov for general optimization problems that do not employ OS. An exemplary embodiment describing a method for fast iterative image reconstruction using OS and momentum will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Additionally embodiments of the exemplary method may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where optimization functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wired and or wireless communication network. In the distributed computing environment the computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Further in the exemplary method is illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow chart which represents operations that may be implemented in hardware software or combinations thereof. The various operations are depicted in the blocks to illustrate the functions that are performed for example during preliminary image update momentum computation and or subsequent image update phases of the exemplary method. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processing subsystems perform the recited operations.

The order in which the exemplary method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks may be combined in any order to implement the exemplary method disclosed herein or an equivalent alternative method. Additionally certain blocks may be deleted from the exemplary method or augmented by additional blocks with added functionality without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. For discussion purposes the exemplary method will be described with reference to the elements of .

Embodiments of the present method allow for substantial reduction in computational costs involved in the iterative image reconstruction. To that end the present method employs OS and momentum to accelerate the iterative image reconstruction. Particularly embodiments of the present method use only a subset of the projection data per iteration and one or more momentum terms derived from previous iterations to allow expeditious updates to the image estimates thereby improving the image reconstruction speed.

For clarity the present method is described here with reference to use of momentum terms determined using Nesterov s algorithms. However implementation of the present method is not limited to the specific iterative reconstruction algorithm discussed in this description. In particular the present method may be used to generate momentum terms for example using Aitken s acceleration or Steffensen s method. Further the present method may be used to improve the performance of several other iterative reconstruction algorithms such as the preconditioned conjugate gradient PCG method the grouped coordinate descent method and line search methods. Additionally the present combination of OS and momentum may also be employed for rapid solving of linear systems of equations and other sub problems arising in image reconstruction algorithms involving variable splitting and the augmented Lagrangian.

In one embodiment an imaging system such as the CT system of or the system of may be configured to acquire projection data corresponding to a target region of a patient or a manufactured part. An image reconstruction unit such as the image reconstructor of may generate measured data for example sinogram data corresponding to the acquired projection data for use in subsequent image reconstruction. Alternatively the measured data may correspond to coil data in a magnetic resonance imaging MRI scan performed using a multiple coil MRI system. At step the measured data may be received from the imaging system. An iterative image reconstruction algorithm may then use the measured data to reconstruct one or more images of the target region using iterative updates.

Iterative X ray CT reconstruction entails reconstructing an image x Rfrom noisy measurements y Rby minimizing a cost function x circumflex over argmin . 0 1 

Equation 1 represents an example of such a cost function x where circumflex over x corresponds to a global or local minimizer of x possibly with a non negativity constraint.

In one embodiment the cost function x for X ray CT reconstruction may be based on a convex and continuously differentiable penalized weighted least squares PWLS function. The PWLS cost function may be defined for example using equation 2 2 where A corresponds to a projection operator a matrix that characterizes the imaging system W corresponds to a diagonal matrix that provides statistical weighting and R x corresponds to a regularization function that may be non quadratic and differentiable. Further corresponds to a regularization parameter that balances between the data fitting term y Ax and the regularizer R x .

However due to the large scale and ill conditioning of the CT image reconstruction problem only certain iterative algorithms are well suited to minimize the cost function x . Minimizing the cost function x entails determining a corresponding gradient. In one embodiment the gradient of the PWLS cost function x may be determined using equation 3 3 where A and A correspond to forward projection and back projection operators respectively.

Determining the gradient x of the cost function x using the projection operators A and A however is computationally expensive. Accordingly certain CT systems employ OS algorithms to allow for approximation of the gradient x using only a subset of measured projection data and a corresponding sub projection operator. Use of subsets in lieu of the entirety of the measured projection data provides dramatic initial acceleration to the iterative image reconstruction. By way of example use of the OS SQS algorithm substantially accelerates the image reconstruction by simplifying the iterative image updates and allowing for substantial parallel computing. Using an NU optimization transfer scheme may further accelerate the OS SQS and reduce the number of iterations.

An optimization transfer method also known as a majorize minimize method replaces the objective function x with a surrogate x x at kth iteration that is easier to minimize. An exemplary iteration of optimization transfer is presented in equation 4 representative of Method 1.

Generally the cost function x may be monotonically decreased by using surrogates x x that are designed to satisfy one or more determined conditions. The determined conditions for example include 0 5 

Although in a presently contemplated implementation the surrogates may be designed to strictly satisfy the determined conditions defined using equation 5 in other implementations one or more other conditions may be employed.

Further the cost function x may be majorized for example using the following quadratic surrogate function x x 6 where often D is designed such that equation 6 satisfies equation 5 .

Accordingly an iteration in equation 4 may be represented using equation 7 7 where a majorizing matrix D may be derived for example using Lipschitz constant De Pierro s lemma in NU SQS algorithm or other methods that yield a matrix that is easier to invert than the Hessian matrix of the original cost function.

The optimization transfer method with a diagonal majorizer D as described herein may be shown to have a convergence rate of O 1 k for example using Theorem 1.

The NU approach may accelerate the optimization transfer method for example by reducing the numerator x circumflex over x in equation 8 with respect to D in Theorem 1. The order of convergence rate O 1 k of the NU approach however remains the same. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure employ momentum techniques to accelerate the optimization transfer methods for achieving a faster convergence rate for example of about O 1 k than conventional image reconstruction methods. Specifically the NU approach may also be used with momentum based optimization transfer methods to reduce the number of iterations needed.

Optimization transfer methods may be accelerated by use of a momentum term. A general outline of use of momentum with optimization transfer methods that extend Method 1 may be represented using equation 9 that corresponds to Method 2.

In the Method 2 the terms x v zcorrespond to image variables that find use in computing an image estimate in a particular iteration of the image reconstruction method and corresponds to a scalar variable to balance the relative weights between vand z. Particularly the term vcorresponds to a normal optimization transfer update and zcorresponds to the momentum term. The momentum term Zdepends on previous iterations x vand z thereby allowing the iterates to converge faster. Further the parameter controls the balance between vand z and may be any real number. Moreover xmay lie in a feasible region for example a non negative orthant in equation 1 if has values within 0 1 . The Method 2 reduces to the Method 1 when 0 for all k.

Different versions of the Method 2 that converge at a rate of about O 1 k are described in greater detail in the following sections. For discussion purposes three different versions of the Method 2 are discussed with reference to conventional Nesterov s methods. The three exemplary versions described herein vary in the way the momentum terms are determined for example using image variables from a single previous iteration or all of the previous iterations.

Version 1 of Nesterov s methods provides the momentum term by using an image estimate from a single previous iteration and may be represented using equations 10 and 11 

An iterative algorithm based on applying momentum to optimization transfer that uses equations 10 and 11 may be represented for example using Method 3. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 3 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices that satisfy equation 11 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence.

Version 2 of Nesterov s methods provides the momentum term by using the image zfrom a previous iteration and may be represented using equations 14 and 15 

An iterative algorithm based on applying momentum to optimization transfer using equations 14 and 15 may be represented using Method 4. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 4 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices satisfying equation 15 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence.

Method 4 is also convergent where the sequence v converges at the rate of rate O 1 k . In a variation of Method 4 the optimization transfer iteration vmay be replaced by equation 17 1 17 which suggests that the convergence rate O 1 k may be achieved without using an optimization transfer inner step. Version 3

Version 3 of Nesterov s methods provides the momentum term by using image estimates from all previous iterations and may be represented using equations 18 and 19 

An iterative algorithm based on applying momentum to optimization transfer in equations 18 and 19 may be represented using Method 5. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 5 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices satisfying 19 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence.

As previously noted even though Nesterov s momentum methods have been used in various optimization problems the conventional Nesterov s methods have used a Lipschitz constant for the cost function x . However for X ray CT computing the smallest Lipschitz constant may entail extensive computations. Accordingly the conventional Nesterov approach is poorly suited to X ray CT reconstruction in practical settings such as in a hospital. In contrast in the present disclosure a combination of optimization transfer for example SQS which replaces the ill suited Lipschitz constant with a suitable diagonal matrix D and momentum may be used to achieve faster convergence of the conventional momentum methods such as Nesterov s methods. Furthermore as conventional momentum based optimization transfer methods are slow due to either a large Lipschitz constant or a large diagonal majorizer D for the X ray CT cost function x embodiments of the present disclosure apply OS methods to momentum based optimization transfer to achieve faster convergence. The OS methods are briefly described in the following section.

The OS based iterative image reconstruction uses only a subset of the projection data per iteration thereby substantially reducing the computational effort and or memory access involved in the iterative image reconstruction. In the OS based image reconstruction the cost function x may be written as x x where x is defined in equation 22 

Although the present embodiment describes use of the OS for image reconstruction it may be noted that as used herein reference to the terms ordered subsets or OS is not restricted to indicate a specific ordering typically used in tomographic imaging. The terms ordered subsets or OS may be used to refer to different ordering of subsets. For example in some embodiments the terms ordered subsets or OS may additionally be used to refer to random orders such as those used in some stochastic subgradient algorithms.

In one embodiment employing OS based methods the following approximation defined in equation 23 may be used . . . 23 when each subset includes measurement data for example projection views that are approximately uniformly down sampled by M.

Based on the approximation defined in equation 23 gradient function x may be replaced by subset gradient function M x or with similar approximations in the Methods 1 2 3 4 and 5. Use of the OS based method allows for approximation of the original gradient of the cost function x with only 1 M of the amount of computation by using a subset of measured sinogram data. The OS based methods thus may allow for up to M times acceleration in early iterations of image reconstruction.

Accordingly at step a preliminary image update in a particular iteration is determined based on one or more image variables. The image variables may be computed using at least a subset of the measured data in the particular iteration. For example the preliminary image update may be determined using equations 22 and or 23 . Specifically in one embodiment the preliminary image update may be determined using Method 6 represented by equation 24 defined herein 

Accordingly in the present disclosure the OS based methods are combined with momentum terms determined using customized Nesterov s methods to achieve a fast convergence rate O 1 kM in early iterations. Particularly the OS and momentum based method provides substantially more acceleration to iterative image reconstruction that is available through either of these techniques used alone.

An outline of optimization transfer using OS and momentum may be represented using Method 7 that extends Method 2 as shown herein in equation 26 .

OS based methods using momentum provide substantial initial acceleration to allow the iterative image reconstruction to converge to a desired optimum. Additionally the acceleration provided by one or more momentum terms allows use of fewer subsets smaller M than with standard OS methods thus providing greater stability to the OS and momentum based optimization transfer method.

Further at step at least one momentum term is determined based on one or more image variables computed in the particular iteration and or one or more further image variables computed in one or more iterations preceding the particular iteration. In one embodiment coefficients of the one or more image variables may be determined in each iteration using customized momentum based methods such as Nesterov s algorithms. The customized momentum based methods may be designed to aid in accelerating convergence of an image reconstruction method in a determined number of iterations.

In a presently contemplated embodiment the OS and momentum based methods may generate the momentum terms for example by iteratively determining a linear combination of the one or more image variables whose coefficients change in each iteration. Specifically in one embodiment iteratively determining the linear combination may include determining linear combinations of gradients of cost functions evaluated at the one or more further image variables computed in one or more iterations preceding the particular iteration where the cost function corresponds to at least the subset of the measured data.

For discussion purposes three exemplary versions of the OS and momentum based methods are described by defining an approximate surrogate function x using the approximation defined in equation 23 . The following three versions present extensions to Methods 3 4 and 5 respectively.

In Version 1 the OS approach is combined with Nesterov s first algorithm to provide the momentum term using an image estimate from a single previous iteration. Version 1 of the OS and momentum based method may be represented using equations 27 and 28 

An outline of an iterative algorithm using Version 1 of the combined OS and momentum based method may be represented using Method 8. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 8 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices satisfying equation 28 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence in early iterations.

An outline of an iterative algorithm using Version 2 of the combined OS and momentum based method may be represented using Method 9. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 8 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices satisfying equation 31 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence in early iterations.

Further Version 3 of the combined OS and momentum based method may be represented using equations 33 and 34 

An outline of an iterative algorithm using Version 3 of the combined OS and momentum based method may be represented using Method 10. In one embodiment the choice of tin Method 8 is the fastest increasing tamong all choices satisfying equation 34 starting from t 1 thereby providing faster convergence in early iterations.

At step one of the Methods 8 9 or 10 or similar methods may be used to determine a subsequent image update using the preliminary image update and the momentum term determined using one or more of the three versions described with reference to step . Further in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure the OS and momentum based methods iteratively compute the preliminary image update and or the subsequent image update for a plurality of iterations until one or more termination criteria are satisfied as depicted by step .

In one embodiment the OS and momentum based method may terminate following a determined number of iterations for example after ten iterations. Alternatively the OS and momentum based method may be determined to converge if the difference between a subsequent image update in a particular iteration and a preceding iteration is less than a determined threshold for example 1 Hounsfield Unit HU . The determined number of iteration and or the determined threshold may be pre programmed into the imaging system or may be received from a user. The OS and momentum based method may subsequently terminate.

The present disclosure describes embodiments of the combined OS and momentum based method that employs momentum terms determined using Nesterov s methods for substantially accelerating the iterative image reconstruction. The present method however may be further extended to handle any majorizers for example optimization transfer techniques such as SQS including those based on line search schemes. In one embodiment the present method may also be extended to include other linear combinations of one or more image variables

Exemplary convergence rates achieved via use of certain conventional methods and embodiments of the present method are discussed with reference to . For the embodiments illustrated in 3D helical X ray CT data set of a human shoulder was acquired to depict exemplary acceleration achieved by embodiments of the present method in comparison to conventional image reconstruction methods. The convergence rate is ascertained for example by computing the root mean square difference RMSD between a current and converged image within the region of interest ROI in Hounsfield Units HU versus number of iterations. In one example the RMSD is computed using equation 36 .

In the embodiment depicted in different number of subsets for example 1 24 and 48 are employed. As evident from the depictions of use of the momentum terms in the OS based methods see elements and provide substantially more acceleration than conventional image reconstruction methods see element . As evident from the depiction of combinations of OS based methods with Version 1 OS MOM 1 and Version 3 behave differently. Specifically in the embodiment illustrated in use of Version 3 with OS based method appears to provide more stable performance.

Further illustrates another graphical representation depicting exemplary convergence rates of certain image reconstruction methods with and without the use of momentum. illustrates curves representative of exemplary convergence rates of the various image reconstruction methods. Certain curves correspond to image reconstruction methods that employ a NU OS SQS based method using MOM 3 with different number of subsets. As evident from the depictions of use of the NU approach provides substantial initial acceleration.

Embodiments of the present disclosure thus provide methods and systems for accelerating iterative image reconstruction. The embodiments described herein allow for substantial reduction in computational costs involved in the iterative image reconstruction through use of OS and momentum. Particularly the present method uses a relatively small number of OS of the projection data per iteration and one or more momentum terms derived from previous iterations to allow expeditious updates to the image estimates thereby improving the image reconstruction speed. Faster image reconstruction may circumvent a need for multiple scans and or surgical intervention to assess a medical condition of a patient thereby allowing for real time diagnoses and providing substantial savings in computational effort and or medical resources. Additionally faster image reconstruction encourages wider use of iterative reconstruction methods thereby enabling use of more low dose CT scans.

Although the present disclosure is described here with reference to use of OS and momentum terms determined using Nesterov s algorithm in certain embodiments other suitable algorithms and methods may be employed. For example Aitken s acceleration or Steffensen s method may be used to determine momentum terms for use in accelerating the convergence of an iterative image reconstruction algorithm. The momentum terms may then be used to improve the performance of several other iterative reconstruction algorithms such as the PCG method the grouped coordinate descent method and line search methods. Additionally embodiments of the present disclosure may find use in providing fast and accurate image reconstruction for both medical and non medical imaging applications.

It may be noted that the foregoing examples configurations and method steps that may be performed by certain components of the present systems may be implemented by suitable code on a processor based system. These components for example may include the control mechanism the DAS the computing device and or the image reconstructor of . Particularly the steps may be performed using a special purpose computer multi core CPU architecture distributed cluster systems general purpose graphical processor unit GPU architecture and or cloud based systems. It may also be noted that different implementations of the present disclosure may perform some or all of the steps described herein in different orders or substantially concurrently that is in parallel.

Additionally the functions may be implemented in a variety of programming languages including but not limited to Ruby Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Perl Delphi Python Matlab Freemat Octave Interactive Data Language IDL FORTRAN Cuda openCL C C and or Java. Such code may be stored or adapted for storage on one or more tangible machine readable media such as on data repository chips local or remote hard disks optical disks that is CDs or DVDs solid state drives or other media which may be accessed by the processor based system to execute the stored code.

Although specific features of various embodiments of the present disclosure may be shown in and or described with respect to some drawings and not in others this is for convenience only. It is to be understood that the described features structures and or characteristics may be combined and or used interchangeably in any suitable manner in the various embodiments

While only certain features of the present disclosure have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

