---

title: Data acquisition pertaining to connectivity of client applications of a service provider network
abstract: Providing for external control of data network client resources for application-based client network access is described herein. By way of example, the external control can be implemented by a third party service provider in conjunction with delivery of content to the client devices. The external control can be provided over a network gateway, for instance, and facilitate a proxy access to resource allocation components of the data network, or alternatively a direct communication access between the resource allocation components and third party service provider. The external control enables a content service provider to allocate resources on an as-needed basis to subsets of client devices requesting such content. Billing for data network resources as well as for service provider content can be reconciled among the respective networks and client according to a predetermined billing arrangement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621480&OS=09621480&RS=09621480
owner: VIGO SOFTWARE LTD
number: 09621480
owner_city: Nicosia
owner_country: CY
publication_date: 20130304
---
The subject disclosure refers generally to provision of media content over a network e.g. data acquisition for client devices of a service provider network.

Advancements in high speed last mile access to the Internet have enabled consumers to greatly expand the scope and diversity of content they can receive through electronic communications. Likewise advancements in network storage space such as cloud storage in one example and multiple access server technology has enabled multimedia service providers to store and distribute larger and more diverse content. Such content can include media multimedia text graphics and so on. Network stored media in particular is becoming very popular ranging from relatively small audio content like songs and ringtones to larger podcasts full length movies and even much larger audio video content. It is not hyperbole to say therefore that fixed electronic communication systems have become a backbone of industrial commercial and personal communications worldwide. Likewise mobile communication networks have provided voice and data communication functionality that have become near ubiquitous for both business and personal communications throughout much of the world. Content related communication for audio video entertainment single player and multiplayer online games and the like has also become popular utilizing the fundamental architecture of the Internet and associated webs or networks as the underlying data content communication platform.

Content and service providers generally employ multi access servers to handle client communication or content requests provide encryption or other security and to track usage for billing content and services consumed by client devices. For high data applications and related content archiving large capacity data storage devices are often utilized and configured to store this content and in conjunction with the multi access servers permit access to subsets of the stored content. Common modern examples of online content or services include multimedia content such as movies episode based television content such as sitcoms news programs and other audio video content as well as audio content and even real time interactive audio video content single player or multiplayer games as well as communication services blogs online forums e mail text messaging multimedia messaging and so on.

A popular interface between the service provider and the consumer is a subscriber account. A consumer provides identification information and establishes login credentials for purposes of identifying themselves and restricting access to the subscriber account. Upon authorizing access to a subscriber account selected content or services requested via a client device logged in to the subscriber account can be delivered over a network for consumption. This framework enables content providers to track the usage of a particular subscriber to facilitate billing the account for content and services consumed via the account.

In addition the subscriber account can store information or choices about content services content delivery services or the content itself client device information and so on via the subscriber account. Thus different levels of service can be established for different subscribers and different billing rates established for different levels of service all stored at the subscriber account. This enables network content providers to provide a range of billing rates and therefore accommodate a range of costs for a population of consumers. It also enables content providers to distribute specialized services or features for a subset of consumers who are interested in those services or features. Thus the subscriber account facilitates a great deal of diversity in online content services.

Because network multimedia content is managed via client server communications over a network client authorization and user verification procedures are employed to control client access to content. A server might for instance be provisioned to check that a client device is associated with a subscription account offered by a particular content provider. This allows a service provider to limit content delivery to those users who have an agreement with the service provider as well as protect intellectual property rights of content owners. As technology associated with consumer playback devices and network access infrastructure changes providers typically adapt their services to achieve new possibilities made available by these technological changes. This evolution in technology is ongoing and generates seemingly perpetual demand to expand upon or improve existing content or services to match these changes and is one of many current challenges related to online multimedia content delivery.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways or embodiments in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure provide for external control of network resources for client devices of a network service provider. The external control can be implemented in conjunction with delivery of content to the client devices and applications operating on the client devices. In particular aspects the external control can be provided to a third party service provider of the content enabling the service provider to allocate resources on an as needed basis to subsets of client devices requesting such content.

In a particular aspect external control of network resources can be implemented in conjunction with multiple content related Internet communication models. One communication model can include a preview limited communication model. The preview limited communication model can include limited Internet access by an Internet Service Provider ISP for client devices. The preview limited model can be provided at reduced or no cost. The limited access can include for instance previewing service provider s content previewing service provider s services or the like. A content or service consumption model can include greater or full access to one or more Internet service providers. Utilizing this model a client can access and consume content or services. This model can be billed at a subscriber rate. The subscriber rate can bill delivery services e.g. ISP costs separately from content provider services or in some combined arrangement.

According to one or more further aspects of the subject disclosure network service provider resources can be monitored to track consumption of those resources in real time. Real time availability consumption of network resources can be exported to an entity external to the network service provider network. Instructions for allocating de allocating modifying etc. network resources can be generated external to the network service provider s network and implemented with the network. In one aspect direct access to network resource controls can be exported to the external entity. In other aspects the network service provider network can include proxy services that receive instructions related to real time network resource control for client devices and implement those instructions.

In at least one aspect consumption of network resources directed by an external entity can be monitored separate from other network resources allocated internally by a service provider s network. Externally directed network resource consumption can be compiled and parsed as a function of one or more suitable parameters including identity of external entity amount or type of resources consumed quality of service QoS resources impact of such resource consumption e.g. percent of available network resources consumed resulting congestion . . . or the like or a suitable combination thereof. The compilation and parsing of externally directed network resources can be used in part for billing calculations or remediation related to consumption of content and delivery of such content by a client device.

In further aspects multiple service provider networks can be integrated as delivery resources for content consumed by client devices. Control over such delivery resources can be externally directed by one or more providers of the content. In such case real time availability of resources can be managed and leveraged as directed by the one or more content providers. In a particular aspect a service provider network can be entirely allocated to external control. In other aspects a subset of resources can be allocated to external control. In yet other aspects a combination of the foregoing can be implemented where some networks are fully allocated to external control and other networks are partially or conditionally allocated to external control. Suitable conditions can include allocation up to a subset of total resources allocation at particular times different subsets of resources at different times or the like or suitable combinations thereof.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter can be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout the description. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram or schematic form in order to facilitate describing various aspects disclosed herein.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment a disclosed aspect or an aspect means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or aspect is included in at least one embodiment or aspect of the present disclosure. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in one aspect or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in various disclosed embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system module interface user interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

Since the advent of network based computer services challenges involved in delivering network services to a dynamic population of client devices have been a driving motive for the multiple access server system. Such a system enables a population of client devices to request access to services independent from the server and independent from other client devices. Moreover the server can allocate resources to facilitate network services for a particular client device independent of other client devices.

Though the basic problem of serving a dynamic population of client devices is well served by the multiple access server system many secondary challenges still remain. For instance maximizing resource utilization for a dynamic population of client devices can be beneficial yet difficult to achieve in practice. Moreover serving high densities of client devices while avoiding service degradation can be a particularly challenging problem.

In various aspects of the subject disclosure provided is an integrated network communication model that is content centric and interfaces client device applications with content service providers over a network. Network service provider e.g. Internet service provider ISP network resources can be allocated to service providers which in turn utilize subsets of the resources in delivering network based media content or services content referred to herein in the aggregate as content to client devices. Billing for such a system can be integrated in some aspects where ISP network charges are bundled with the cost of accessing and consuming content or can be separate. In particular aspects service providers can be given external control over some internal resources of an ISPs network in conjunction with employing the ISP network to deliver content to an application operating on a client device. This enables the service provider to provide adequate bandwidth quality of service QoS bitrates and so on suitable for delivery and consumption of a particular class of content e.g. high definition video content audio content web browsing content social media messaging content . . . or suitable to match playback operating capabilities of the application and so forth or suitable combinations thereof. This arrangement also opens up a mechanism to move away from the traditional client ISP arrangement in which client device users pay for network access via a network service provider and then access content provider networks on the Internet or the like. Rather a client content service provider interaction can be implemented with the network service provider serving the content service provider.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of an example system that facilitates external control of data access network resources in conjunction with delivering content to a client device in various aspects of the subject disclosure. System can be implemented in conjunction with a wide area access network e.g. the Internet an intranet . . . that includes or is connected to an external or third party online content provider. As utilized herein online content can include media e.g. text graphics metadata audio data video data . . . multimedia e.g. high definition audio video plus metadata . . . services e.g. social media website social feed application news feed application web based shopping . . . or the like or a suitable combination thereof obtained at least in part over the wide area data network.

System can comprise a data access service network that facilitates access to a wide area data network for a population of client devices . Data access service network can include an ISP network a terrestrial radio access network TRAN also referred to more simply as a RAN a mobile network a local area network a wide area network or the like or a suitable combination of the foregoing. In some disclosed aspects the wide area data network to which data access service network facilitates access is the Internet. In other aspects the wide area data network can be a private intranet or a suitable combination of a public and private network s . Data access service network communicates with population of client devices over a suitable network interface s . A particular implementation of the network interface can depend on transceiver equipment and communication protocols of population of client devices and data access service network . For instance for a wired transceiver network interface could include an IEEE interface an optical fiber network interface a USB interface a twisted pair interface a shielded coaxial cable interface and so on operating under suitable communication protocols. Likewise in the event that population of client devices or data access service network employs a wireless transceiver the network interface could include a radio frequency bearer a microwave frequency bearer and so forth.

Further to the above system can comprise one or more third party service provider networks communicatively connected to data access service network via an inter network gateway . It should be appreciated that communicative connections between third party service provider network and data access service network as well as between data access service network and population of client devices can be direct connections or indirect connections e.g. through one or more intermediary networks devices or entities such as inter network gateway .

Data access service network can further comprise a tunneling communication component . Tunneling communication component can be configured to facilitate control of a finite amount of network resources to third party service provider network . Particularly the finite amount of network resources can comprise resources that facilitate communication between data access service network and one or more of population of client devices . Accordingly tunneling communication component can be configured to facilitate external control of allocation de allocation or modification of communication resources of data access service network . The finite amount of network resources can comprise all network resources of data access service network or a subset of such network resources. In addition external control of the finite amount of network resources can be conditional based on conditions managed by tunneling communication component absolute e.g. non changing quasi absolute e.g. non changing subject to deactivation or the like. Moreover tunneling communication component can be configured to activate the external control of the finite amount of network resources thereby enabling the control or to deactivate the external control thereby terminating the control.

Tunneling communication component can comprise a resource management component in particular aspects of the subject disclosure. Resource management component can be configured to track and compile network resources exported for control by third party service provider network over inter network gateway . These network resources can include bandwidth s data rate s quality of service QoS or the like or a suitable combination thereof. Further these network resources can be compiled and parsed by resource management component as a function of an identity of third party service provider network an amount of the resources consumed a type of the resources consumed or an impact metric of the resources consumed e.g. percent of available network resources consumed resulting congestion . . . or the like or a suitable combination thereof. Network resource information can be compiled by resource management component in a real time fashion updating consumption totals in response to periodic resource consumption data from components not depicted of data access service network or changes therein. In at least one aspect of the subject disclosure compiled network resource information or suitable subsets thereof can be exported to third party service provider network to facilitate a resource consumption feedback input in conjunction with a real time control of network resources of data access service network .

Further to the above tunneling communication component can comprise a remote control component configured to facilitate allocation of a subset of the communication resources of data access service network to third party service provider s network . Remote control component can facilitate allocation de allocation etc. of the network resources in response to instructions received from third party service provider s network via inter network gateway . In at least one aspect of the subject disclosure remote control component can serve as a proxy for implementing resource allocation instructions originated at third party service provider s network . In this aspect s remote control component receives such commands and implements the resource allocation instructions within data access service network . The implementation can be subject to one or more rules governing the relationship between data access service network and third party service provider network in a particular aspect e.g. see infra . In other aspects remote control component can establish a secure communication link between third party service provider network and resource allocation components not depicted of data access service network . In this case the resource allocation instructions can be implemented directly by data access service network on the condition that third party service provider network is properly authorized on the secure communication link and on the condition that the instructions are consistent with predetermined rules for remote resource control.

As depicted system can facilitate direct interaction between a user of one or more of population of client devices and third party service provider network . This can provide a change in the traditional Internet service model for instance where a user interfaces with an ISP or mobile network provider to access the Internet and then interacts with a service provider once access to the Internet is obtained. System can instead facilitate direct access between population of client devices and third party service provider network where the third party service provider controls resource allocation to client devices rather than an agreement between client devices and the ISP. In this context multiple communication models as viewed from the client device can be implemented to serve different browsing activities of client devices. In addition different billing models can be employed that make sense with the different communication models and browsing activities. Examples of such communication models are described in more detail in and other aspects throughout the subject disclosure.

Internet service network can comprise or can be connected to a tunneling communication component configured to provide control over a subset of the finite set of network resources to an entity external to Internet service network . The control over the subset of network resources can be governed by tunneling communication component according to a set of rules stored in a data store managed by a remote control component . Rules can include for example a set of remote control rules stored in remote rules file resource rules stored in a resources file and tariffs and billing rules stored in a tariffs file . It should be appreciated that rules for governing the external control of network resources can be divided into other categories or subsets of rules in additional aspects of the subject disclosure.

Remote control rules can govern what external entities are authorized to access network resources of Internet service network how to identify an external entity e.g. Internet Protocol IP address entity identifier code . . . how to authorize such an entity e.g. password digital certificate approved IP address . . . how to communicate with such an entity and how to receive and implement resource allocation commands by such an entity e.g. via proxy by providing direct access to resource allocation components of Internet service network and so forth . Resource rules can govern what resources can be controlled by an external entity e.g. bandwidth data rate type of communication bearer QoS . . . an amount or type of such resources to be exported to an external entity or set of such entities and resources to allocate to respective ones of the set of such entities. Tariffs and billing rules can govern the costs of network resources allocated to an external entity and how to allocate the costs to the external entity ies .

To facilitate remote control of network resources a resource consumption component can track allocation or consumption of network resources of Internet service network . In some aspects resource allocation or consumption can be exported in real time to external entities as a feedback mechanism to facilitate optimizing an amount of resources for a particular type of content delivery e.g. high definition audio video audio web browsing . . . to client devices . Resource allocation or consumption can further be tracked to determine a suitable cost or billing amount for the network resources controlled by an external entity in conjunction with facilitating network access for client devices .

Further to the above tunneling communication component can facilitate a plurality of communication models between Internet service network and client devices . As one example the plurality of communication models can comprise a preview only communication model facilitating limited data network access e.g. Internet access . . . . The limited data network access can include for instance limited Internet access to one or more domains host computers websites etc. on the Internet. The limited data network access can further be limited to previewing information indicative of content or services of a third party service provider as one example. The preview only communication model can be offered to client devices at a reduced fee or at no cost whereas tariffs for the preview only communication model can be a predetermined rate billed to an external third party service provider.

In a particular implementation the preview only communication model can be implemented via one or more browsing bearers . The browsing bearers can be implemented by tunneling communication component based on a set of content browsing protocols . Further the browsing bearers can be established in response to activation of a preview only application at client devices or a request for a browsing bearer by an external third party service provider. Indication of this activation of the preview only application can be transmitted directly to Internet service network from client devices or can be transmitted through Internet service network to the external third party service provider which in turn can send a request for a browsing bearer to Internet service network . Browsing bearers can be implemented with a low amount of network resources to facilitate low throughput preview only browsing. A low amount of network resources can include a limited bandwidth e.g. 64 kilobytes kB per second 128 kB per second 256 kB per second . . . a low QoS a low datarate access at non peak times or the like or a suitable combination thereof. Once a content selection is made at client devices e.g. through a preview only communication model playback or consumption of data related to multimedia network services etc. associated with the selected content can be implemented for client devices .

As a further example the plurality of communication models can include a content consumption model facilitating a network communication with a higher allocation of network resources than the preview only communication model. The content consumption model can be facilitated by tunneling communication component utilizing content playback protocols suitable for establishing one or more playback bearers for client devices having activated content playback or consumption from a third party service provider associated with Internet service network . The playback bearers can be configured to support high data content services e.g. high definition online audio video content . . . high datarate services e.g. for online gaming . . . or the like.

In at least some aspects of the subject disclosure content browsing protocols or content playback protocols can be configured to allocate a static and fixed set of network for a particular bearer e.g. one set of resources for a browsing bearer and a second set of resources for a playback bearer or one set of network resources from a group of such resource sets that are pre allocated to a particular bearer or to a particular type of content on such bearer where client devices or an external third party service provider can specify the particular type of content or where tunneling communication component can be configured to mine data packets transmitted through Internet service network to extract the type of content contained therein . In at least one alternative aspect content browsing protocols or content playback protocols can be configured to facilitate dynamic network resource allocation by an external third party service provider optionally with one or more resource limitations imposed by remote control component based on remote rules or resources rules or tariff rules where applicable . The dynamic allocation of network resources can then be configured to provide suitable resources to support existing content delivery to client devices subject to the rules and subject to total network resources or any subset of resources allocated to the external third party service provider.

Internet service network can comprise a tunneling communication component configured to export controls over at least a subset of network resources of Internet service network . The subset of network resources can comprise network resources for communicating with client devices of Internet service network e.g. see supra . A content control and delivery component of third party service provider network can be configured to communicate with the client devices utilizing the subset of network resources. Disparate types of content can be delivered to the client devices utilizing respective traffic channels which can be configured with respective suitable allocations of the subset of network resources. A resource negotiation component can store predetermined sets of resources to be allocated for delivery of respective types of content. As an example a first set of resources can be associated with a first type of content a second set of resources associated with a second type of content and so on. Resource negotiation component can manage allocation of sets of resources in response to requests of a particular type of content from a client device. Further resource negotiation component can manage allocation of sets of resources within constraints determined by the subset of network resources allocated to third party service provider network as well as within constraints established by Internet service network e.g. rules of supra .

Third party service provider network can further comprise a billing management component for tracking content consumed by the client devices. Costs for consumed content can be charged to subscriber accounts of respective client devices consuming respective portions of the content. Likewise a billing component of Internet service network can track an amount type impact etc. of the subset of network resources of Internet service network consumed in conjunction with delivery of the content to the client devices. Moreover billing component can comprise rules for allocating costs associated with consumed resources of the subset of network resources. The rules for allocating these costs can be implemented in various fashions. As one example Internet service network can bill third party service provider network which can pass these costs on to respective client device subscriber accounts. In another example costs of Internet service network can be billed directly to the client device subscriber accounts separate from charges billed by third party service provider network . In yet another example charges billed by third party service provider network can be provided to billing component of Internet service network for charging to client device subscriber accounts. It should be appreciated that other billing arrangements for charges of third party service provider network and Internet service network can be implemented by system . Such arrangements can comprise separate billing by respective networks or can comprise integrated billing where one of the networks or a third billing network charges client device subscriber accounts. In addition other arrangements known in the art or made known to one of skill in the art by way of the context provided herein or suitable combinations of the foregoing are considered within the scope of the subject disclosure.

Integrated browsing playback traffic server can further integrate with multiple ISP networks and manage respective subsets of network resources of the respective ISP networks . In some aspects integrated browsing playback traffic server can be configured to aggregate respective subsets of network resources and export control over subsets of the aggregated resources to respective ones of third party content servers . Third party content servers can utilize these subsets of the aggregated resources to delivery content to client devices of one or more of ISP networks . Further third party content servers can be configured to control allocation of the subset s of aggregated resources to respective client devices. Control of resource allocation can be real time facilitating increase or decrease or ISP network resources to serve transient demand of the client devices in some aspects. In other aspects third party content servers can provide predetermined resource allocations based on a communication model e.g. preview only model content playback model . . . or type of content requested by a client device or the like. In yet other aspects a suitable combination of the foregoing modes of resource allocation can be established by third party content servers via integrated browsing playback traffic server .

Integrated browsing playback traffic server can receive aggregated or mixed traffic from third party content servers . The mixed traffic can represent combined communications of respective third party traffic servers with content delivered by one of the servers to a group of client devices for instance in one communication band e.g. within sub bands of a single band or the like or a set of communication bands. Combined communications of third party content servers are received at integrated browsing playback traffic server and directed to respective ISP networks whose network resources are employed in delivering respective content to respective client devices. Thus integrated browsing playback traffic server can transmit mixed dedicated traffic comprising separated streams of communication for disparate client devices for some ISP networks and an aggregate of some or all client communications for other ISP networks depending on configurations of respective ISP networks . The ISP networks can then separate any remaining mixed traffic to deliver dedicated client traffic to respective client devices.

In general system illustrates an example arrangement in which resources of multiple ISP networks can be exported for control by one or more third party content servers . Resources can be aggregated by an integrated entity e.g. integrated browsing playback traffic server so that third party content servers can treat the resources as a single block without respect to which resources belong to which ISP network . Suitable translation of subsets of the aggregated network resources allocated by third party content servers to client communications and the actual network resources provided by ISP networks to those respective client devices can be managed by integrated browsing playback traffic server . Although not depicted integrated browsing playback traffic server can further comprise billing components that store rules for allocating charges accrued by use of ISP network resources and content of third party content servers . These rules can establish how and to what entity the resources and content are billed and can store charging agreements negotiated between respective ISP networks and third party content servers and implement billing according to such charging agreements.

In particular aspects of the subject disclosure system can enable content provider network to provide dedicated network access for client devices providing online content or services for applications operating on the client devices. Further the access can incorporate constraints of access network operators e.g. zero balance tariffs network resource caps and so on . In at least one aspect such constraints can include disparate billing models for disparate communication models e.g. free or reduced cost for preview only communication tariff charges for content playback communication etc. . To facilitate content provision to multiple client devices from one or more content provider networks system can be configured to distinguish traffic originating from a selected application on client device e.g. a Facebook application a Google application a YouTube application etc. and an associated content provider network while restricting other network access for non selected applications or content from non authorized content provider networks . To facilitate application specific access to a particular content provider network VPN tunnel can be established e.g. utilizing layer two tunneling protocol L2TP Internet Protocol Security IPSEC protocol or other suitable secure communication protocol from a particular application at client device to VPN proxy traffic server . VPN proxy traffic server can then open an application programming interface API to an associated content provider network to manage access to client device for the particular application .

In at least one aspect system can be implemented according to processes A B C D E F G and H as depicted to establish a VPN tunnel and provide dedicated content to an application s of client device . At process A selection of an application s occurs at client device and proxy library defines a limited network access e.g. preview only communication model to an access point in response to the selection. Access point can be a wireless access point e.g. wireless LAN mobile radio access network RAN etc. a wired access point e.g. T1 T3 line coaxial cable network access digital subscriber line DSL network access . . . or a combination thereof. At process B a user of client device initiates service client application s at client device. In response to activation of service client application s proxy library generates VPN tunnel between client device and VPN proxy traffic server . For process B the VPN tunnel facilitates access only to a content service provider associated with service client application s resulting in limited application traffic being exchanged between content service provider and client device . At process C a user of client device logs into a service at service client application s a clientID for client device is submitted for authorization by client device . At process D an authorization check is performed on the client ID and if successful service client application s solicits reduced cost no cost preview only communication model. The reduced cost no cost preview only communication can be forwarded to a mobile OS platform service which forwards an operating system notification to application s of client device . At process E the user of client device can accept or reject the offer utilizing a subscriber account to pay for fees if any . If accepted service client application s sends a tunnelID to content service provider . At process F the service client application s activates Internet network resources in response to accepting the reduced fee no cost offer and at process G content provider network requests Internet access allocates Internet access resources for VPN tunnel utilizing the tunnelID. At process H VPN proxy traffic server opens access by tunnelID to the Internet for a selected application . Other applications other than the selected application s can be restricted or consume traffic at normal billing rates per ISP or mobile carrier billing arrangements .

The aforementioned diagrams have been described with respect to interaction between several systems apparatuses components user interfaces and display indicators. It should be appreciated that such diagrams can include those components or systems specified therein some of the specified components or additional components. For example a system could include Internet service network client devices third party service provider network and integrated browsing playback traffic server as one possible example. Sub components could also be implemented as components electrically connected to other sub components rather than included within a parent component. Additionally it should be noted that two or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. For instance resource management component can comprise remote control component to facilitate tracking consumption of network resources and exporting control over such network resources by way of a single component. Components of the disclosed systems and apparatuses can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art or made known to one of skill in the art by way of the context provided herein.

In view of the exemplary diagrams described supra process methods that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow chart of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to an electronic device. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device device in conjunction with a carrier or storage medium.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects described herein includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus connects system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject innovation.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed innovation.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus through an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections by wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or can be connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus through the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band or other bands e.g. 802.11g 802.11n . . . so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Each server object etc. and computing devices or objects etc. can communicate with one or more other server objects etc. and computing devices or objects etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each server object etc. or computing device or object etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the techniques for search augmented menu and configuration functions provided in accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems for search augmented menu and configuration functions as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. One or more of these network topologies can be employed by population of client devices or client devices for communicating with a network. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. A client can be a process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. The client process utilizes the requested service in some cases without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. A client device can be a computing device or object upon which a client process operates or is executed in one or more disclosed aspects.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing devices or objects etc. can be thought of as clients and server objects etc. can be thought of as servers where server objects etc. acting as servers provide data services such as receiving data from client computing devices or objects etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing devices or objects etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network or bus is the Internet for example the server objects etc. can be Web servers with which other computing devices or objects etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Server objects etc. acting as servers may also serve as clients e.g. computing devices or objects etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

The subject matter described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier or computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip s an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD a digital video disc DVD a Blu ray Disc BD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive and or a virtual device that emulates a storage device and or any of the above computer readable media.

The word exemplary where used herein means serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect embodiment or design described herein as exemplary demonstrative illustrative or the like is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein the term infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment user and or intent from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Captured data and events can include user data device data environment data data from sensors sensor data application data implicit data explicit data etc. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events for example.

Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic and data fusion engines can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the appended claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements. Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

