---

title: Web platform with select-to-call functionality
abstract: Web content is formatted to show an icon adjacent identified phone numbers to enable select-to-call, e.g., click-to-call functionality from within a web platform. The web platform can include various web browsers, web applications, and the like. The select-to call functionality can comprise an integral part of the web platform, such as comprising part of the web platform's binary. Alternately, the select-to call functionality can be provided through a web plug-in that is downloaded and incorporated into the web platform. The select-to-call functionality can enable the user's web platform context to be maintained during the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374446&OS=09374446&RS=09374446
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09374446
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130515
---
When a user employs a web platform such as a web browser or web application to consume web content they can be presented with various information that may be of interest to them. One such piece of information can comprise a telephone number such as a landline to a business or other entity. If the user wishes to place a telephone call they can either leave the web platform and place the call on a telephone or cell phone or they can launch a separate application to place a peer to peer call over a suitably configured network. Choosing the latter the user s context is switched entirely from the web content to an entirely different application.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter.

In one or more embodiments web content is formatted to show an icon adjacent identified phone numbers to enable select to call e.g. click to call functionality from within a web platform. The web platform can include various web browsers web applications and the like. The select to call functionality can comprise an integral part of the web platform such as comprising part of the web platform s binary. Alternately the select to call functionality can be provided through a web plug in that is downloaded and incorporated into the web platform. The select to call functionality can enable the user s web platform context to be maintained during the call.

In at least some embodiments details associated with the phone number that is called using the select to call functionality can be retrieved from a database and surfaced to the user by way of the web platform to enrich the user s call experience.

In one or more embodiments web content is formatted to show an icon adjacent identified phone numbers to enable select to call e.g. click to call functionality from within a web platform. In examples described in this document the click to call terminology will be used. It is to be appreciated and understood however that the examples apply equally well to select to call scenarios as will be described in more detail below.

A web platform is a platform that works in connection with content of the web e.g. public content. A web platform can include and make use of many different types of technologies such as by way of example and not limitation URLs HTTP REST HTML CSS JavaScript DOM and the like. The web platform can also work with a variety of data formats such as XML JSON and the like. Web platforms can include web browsers web applications i.e. web apps and the like. The select to call or click to call functionality can comprise an integral part of the web platform such as comprising part of the web platform s e.g. web browser s binary. Alternately the select to call or click to call functionality can be provided through a web plug in that is downloaded and incorporated into the web platform. For example in response to a user selecting the click to call icon the web plug in can be downloaded and or instantiated by way of the web platform to enable the user to place their call. This can occur irrespective of whether the user is already running or has installed a desktop client of a calling application such as a peer to peer P2P application such as one offered by Skype. The click to call functionality can enable the user s web platform context to be maintained during the call. In the context of this document a web platform is intended to refer to software entities including by way of example and not limitation applications such as web browsers web applications and the like that are not primarily calling applications such as P2P applications.

In at least some embodiments details or information associated with the phone number that is called using the click to call functionality can be retrieved from a database by way of a reverse number look up and surfaced to the user by way of the web platform to enrich the user s call experience. For example if the phone number belongs to a restaurant a reverse number lookup can be conducted to retrieve information associated with the phone number such as by way of example and not limitation a menu map rating reviews and the like. In this manner the user s experience can be enhanced by virtue of easily acquiring and accessing information associated with the number. Further the reverse number lookup can be used to enable the user to place free calls i.e. calls for which the user is not billed to various entities.

In the discussion that follows a section entitled Example Environment describes an example environment in which the various embodiments can be utilized. Next a section entitled Select to Call Functionality describes aspects of select to call functionality in accordance with one or more embodiments. Following this a section entitled Call Billing Program describes a call billing program in accordance with one or more embodiments. Next a section entitled Reverse Number Lookup describes how reverse number lookups can be conducted in accordance with one or more embodiments. Last a section entitled Example System describes an example system and various devices that can be utilized to implement one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment each of the end user terminals can include a web platform such as a web browser and in addition communication software comprising a P2P client application which may also include features for calling phone numbers from the end user terminal.

When executed the web browser allows the end user terminals to retrieve web content such as electronic documents in the form of webpages or other forms of electronic documents such as a document file XML file PDF file XLS file etc. from the Web server and display them on their associated screens. It should be noted that end user terminals could be any computing device that is capable of displaying Web pages documents and connect to the Internet .

In one or more embodiments web content is formatted to show an icon adjacent identified phone numbers to enable click to call functionality from within the web platform. As noted above the web platform can include various web browsers web applications and the like. The click to call functionality can comprise an integral part of the web platform such as comprising part of the web platform s binary. Alternately the click to call functionality can be provided through a web plug in that is downloaded and incorporated into the web platform. The click to call functionality can enable calls such as peer to peer calls to be made as described below. The click to call functionality can enable the user s web platform context e.g. web browser s context to be maintained and leveraged during the call as will become apparent below.

In at least some embodiments details associated with the phone number that is called using the click to call functionality can be retrieved from a database and surfaced to the user by way of the web platform to enrich the user s call experience as will be described below in more detail.

When executed the P2P client application allows the end user terminals e.g. to establish bidirectional communication channels with other such end user terminals or PSTN phones via the Internet using P2P call set up or more generally connection set up . In one embodiment the P2P client applications also share presence information with one another which provides an availability status of users. The presence information for each user can be at least in part defined by the users themselves. To supplement the decentralized call set up the P2P client application may retrieve some additional information from a P2P server not shown such as contact lists which provide the names of the users contacts avatars which are images chosen by users to represent themselves within the P2P server.

A Voice Over IP VoIP landline phone may also be coupled to the Internet for communication with various other devices.

A P2P client application may also be installed at a gateway coupled to both the Internet and a PSTN network and or a mobile cellular network . This allows the P2P client applications running on the end user terminals to communicate with ordinary land line telephones and or mobile telephones respectively even if those telephones themselves do not run P2P client applications and are not directly coupled to the Internet . In that case the P2P client application on the end user terminals sets up a connection over the Internet with the P2P client application on the gateway using P2P call set up and provides it with a phone number and the gateway uses the phone number to set up a connection with the telephone over the PSTN or and mobile network .

In one embodiment if a particular end user terminal does not have an associated phone number either the gateway or the P2P server may assign a temporary outgoing identity aka a caller identification number prior to setting up a call to a phone number in either the PSTN or mobile network . In one embodiment the temporary phone number may be a random number or preconfigured by the user or by the P2P server.

In one embodiment a page formatter not specifically shown is used by the end user terminals to format a document during prior to or after the document is displayed on the end user terminal display. In one embodiment the page formatter parses the document or one or more sections thereof to find phone numbers in the document and to format the found phone numbers in different ways according to configurations and rules. The phone numbers may also be amended to include or remove some parts to make the phone numbers readily dialable based on the location of the end user terminal . For example a country code may be added if it is determined that one of the found numbers in the document is a foreign phone number and the end user terminal is currently located in a different country. In one embodiment a rules database includes rules and configurations to help the page formatter format the numbers. In an alternative embodiment an application may be executed in the end user terminal itself to perform some or all functions of the page formatter. For example a web platform web browser browser plug in and the like may be used to format the document.

The schematic block diagram of shows an example end user terminal such as end user terminal which is configured to enable calls to be made from the web platform as well as to act as a terminal of a P2P system operating over the Internet . The end user terminal comprises a CPU operatively coupled to a network interface such as modem for connecting to the Internet a non volatile storage device such as a hard drive or flash memory and a volatile memory device such as a random access memory RAM . The end user terminal also comprises one or more user input devices for example in the form of a keyboard mouse microphone and webcam each operatively coupled to the CPU via an I O interface . The end user terminal further includes one or more user output devices for example in the form of a display screen and speaker again each operatively coupled to the CPU . The storage device stores software including at least an operating system OS and a web platform which can include a web browser or web application having a call module . The call module is configured to enable the web platform or browser to make calls to other end user terminals or land lines as described above and below.

Storage device also stores packet based communication software comprising a P2P client application that includes a Client UI a Client Engine and an I O Layer . On start up or reset of the end user terminal the operating system software is automatically loaded into the RAM and from there is run by being executed on the CPU . Once running the operating system can then run applications such as the web platform and call module and P2P client application by loading them into the into the RAM and executing them on the CPU .

In one embodiment the P2P client application comprises three basic layers an input and output a client engine layer and a user interface UI layer . The web platform P2P client application and call module are run in the operating system . This means that in a multi tasking environment they are scheduled for execution by the operating system and further that inputs to the web platform and the I O layer of the P2P client application from the input devices as well as outputs from the web platform and the I O layer of the P2P client application to the output devices may be mediated via suitable drivers and or APIs of the operating system .

In one embodiment the I O layer of the P2P client application comprises audio and or video codecs which receive incoming encoded streams and decodes them for output to the speaker not shown and or display not shown as appropriate and which receive un encoded audio and or video data from the microphone not shown and or webcam not shown and encodes them for transmission as streams to other end user terminals of the communication system or the P2P system . The I O layer may also comprises a control signaling protocol for signaling control information between end user terminals of the Internet . The client engine then handles the connection management functions of the communication system as discussed above such as establishing calls or other connections by P2P address look up and authentication. The client engine may also be responsible for other secondary functions of the communication system such as supplying up to date contact lists and or avatar images of the user to the P2P server within the communication system or retrieving up to date contact lists of the user and retrieving up to date avatar images of other users from the P2P server. Further the client engine retrieves presence information from the other clients of the users in the contact list via a public API and reciprocally provide its own presence information to those other clients that are online Exchange of presence information directly between clients via a public API is the one option but alternatively the presence information could be exchanged via an intermediate node such as the P2P server.

The UI layer is responsible for presenting decoded video to the user via the display for how to arrange the presented output on the display along with user controls such as buttons and menus and for receiving inputs from the user via the presented controls. The I O layer of the P2P client application is arranged to be able to interact with the call module and the call module is arranged to be able to interact with the web platform under control of the OS .

The call module can be implemented as a plug in to web platform . Alternately the call module can comprise a native component of the web platform and hence is not a plug in. The call module can include all or a subset of the functionality of the P2P client application that permits calls to be made from and within the web platform.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry or a combination of these implementations. The terms module functionality component and logic as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module functionality or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices. The features of the techniques described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

For example the end user terminal may also include an entity e.g. software that causes hardware or virtual machines of the end user terminal to perform operations e.g. processors functional blocks and so on. For example the end user terminal may include a computer readable medium that may be configured to maintain instructions that cause the end user terminal and more particularly the operating system and associated hardware of the end user terminal to perform operations. Thus the instructions function to configure the operating system and associated hardware to perform the operations and in this way result in transformation of the operating system and associated hardware to perform functions. The instructions may be provided by the computer readable medium to the end user terminal through a variety of different configurations.

One such configuration of a computer readable medium is a signal bearing medium and thus is configured to transmit the instructions e.g. as a carrier wave to the end user terminal such as via a network. The computer readable medium may also be configured as a computer readable storage medium and thus is not a signal bearing medium. Examples of a computer readable storage medium include a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM an optical disc flash memory hard disk memory and other memory devices that may use magnetic optical and other techniques to store instructions and other data.

Having considered an example operating environment in accordance with one or more embodiments consider now a discussion of click to call functionality in accordance with one or more embodiments.

As noted above web content such as content that appears on a web page can be formatted to show an icon adjacent identified phone numbers to enable select to call e.g. click to call functionality from within a web platform such as a web browser. In the example about to be described a web browser is used as an example web platform. The click to call functionality can comprise an integral part of the web browser such as comprising part of the web browser s binary. Alternately the click to call functionality can be provided through a web plug in that is downloaded and incorporated into the web browser. The click to call functionality can enable the user s web browser context to be maintained during the call. As an example consider .

There an example browser user interface in accordance with one or more embodiments is shown generally at . In this example the browser user interface includes a search results page for search terms that have been entered in search box . The search results can be ranked in any particular order. In at least some embodiments the search results can be ranked in accordance with whether an entity associated with each search result is currently participating in a call billing program. The call billing program is one in which the recipient of a call in this case the entity or business is billed for the cost of a call rather than the caller. This is described in more detail below.

The search results page includes an icon next to phone numbers that have been identified. The icon may or may not be selected to place a call to the identified number. Phone numbers can be identified in any suitable way. For example phone numbers can be identified within a particular webpage e.g. by XML tags HTML tags . Alternately or additionally phone numbers can be identified by a phone number recognition engine that may or may not comprise part of the browser. The phone number recognition engine employs logic that analyzes text that appears on a webpage to ascertain whether the text is a phone number and if so which country the phone number is associated with. The logic employed by the phone number recognition engine also conducts formatting checks to ascertain whether the phone number is in the correct format and whether the phone number is in fact a valid number. Any suitable type of logic can be utilized to ascertain whether text identified in a webpage is or is not a phone number. Example techniques are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0274510. In addition the phone number recognition engine can employ contextual logic to determine if a selected number in a webpage is a phone number e.g. whether the number appears in a sentence or a block of text that is directed to phone calls or establishing contacts. For example the number in the sentence For further information call 202 5551212 is likely to be a phone number because of the context of the sentence. That is for example if words such as call contact etc. appears in the proximity of a number the number is likely to be a phone number. In another example based on the contextual information it can be determined that the first number in the sentence Total 3745909 students attended California schools in the year 2008 is not a phone number and the second number is also not a phone number because it is too short and the contextual information does not suggest the second number is a phone number.

The icon also appears in at least some embodiments in conjunction with a notification that calls to this number that are placed through the web browser are free of charge. In this example two such notifications are provided a first of which appearing in line with the telephone number and a second which appearing in a notification box .

Assume now that the user wishes to place a free call to the number through their web browser. As an example consider . There the user has placed their cursor over the telephone number or has otherwise indicated a selection e.g. a touch selection for touch enabled devices or a selection through a natural user interface NUI to call that number.

When the web browser receives the click selection a check can be performed to ascertain whether the web browser includes the click to call functionality also referred to as the call module . If the web browser has the click to call functionality then the call can be placed as described in more detail below. If on the other hand the web browser does not have the click to call functionality a plug in that embodies the click to call functionality can be downloaded by contacting a suitably configured Web server.

As an example consider . There as the plug in is being downloaded a notification such as that shown at can be provided to the user to inform the user of the progress of the download. In at least some embodiments a separate dialogue can be presented prior to downloading the plug in to ask the user whether they wish to download the plug in. Once downloaded the plug in can be incorporated into the web browser to permit calling from within the web browser in a manner that preserves the user s Web browsing context.

As an example consider . There a notification is provided that gives the user an option to place the free call through their browser as by clicking on the displayed number or to not place the call. If the user opts to place the free call through their browser the browser s call module can place the call.

In one or more embodiments in an event that a call attempted to be placed by a user has an associated charge assessed to the user a notification can be provided to the user to notify them that the call carries with it a charge and giving them the option to make the call. Such notification can appear within notification . In this instance the user may have an account with a P2P service such as that offered by Skype through which the charges can be placed and managed. Further the notification can also provide the user with an option to increase their credit.

Further in embodiments where the user does not have an account with a P2P service a separate series of user interface progressions can be provided to take the user through an enrollment process.

When the user opts to place a telephone call through their web browser the web browser can present a user interface instrumentality that represents the telephone call. As an example consider .

There a user interface instrumentality includes an icon associated with the party being called i.e. Frank s Pizza an icon to end the call and an icon to mute the microphone.

Having considered various user interface experiences in accordance with one or more embodiments consider now an example method in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Step receives web content that includes one or more telephone numbers. The step can be performed in any suitable way. For example web content in the form of a webpage can be received by the web browser. Step identifies one or more telephone numbers that appear in the web content. This step can be performed in any suitable way examples of which are provided above. Step displays a notification that one or more telephone numbers can be called. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example in at least some embodiments an icon is displayed next to the telephone numbers. Alternately or additionally notifications indicating that the various telephone numbers can be called free of charge can be displayed. Step receives an indication associated with a call to an identified telephone number. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example in at least some embodiments an indication in the form of a mouse click can be received. Alternately or additionally an indication in the form of a touch selection natural user interface NUI selection stylus selection and the like can be utilized.

Responsive to receiving the indication step ascertains whether the web platform in this example the web browser has call functionality. If the web platform has call functionality such that the web platform can place the call step places the call. Examples of how this can be done are provided above. If on the other hand the web platform does not have call functionality step acquires a plug in with the call functionality and step incorporates the plug in in the platform. Once the plug in is incorporated in the platform if the user so chooses they can elect to place their call in which case the method returns to step .

Having considered an example method consider now aspects of a call billing program in accordance with one or more embodiments.

As noted above various entities such as businesses can participate in a call billing program in which calls that are made from a user s browser are billed to the callee and not the caller. In this manner end users can be permitted to make free telephone calls from their web browser. In addition enrollment in the call billing program can permit the enrollees to enjoy certain benefits. For example companies or businesses that are enrolled in the call billing program can be prioritized higher when returning search results than those who are not enrolled in the call billing program.

Having considered an example call billing program in accordance with one or more embodiments consider now aspects of a reverse number lookup.

In at least some embodiments details associated with the phone number that is called using the click to call functionality can be retrieved from a database and surfaced to the user by way of the web platform to enrich the user s call experience. In addition other details that are not necessarily associated with the phone number that is being called can be surfaced to the user to enhance their experience. Further such details are information can be provided before during and or after a particular call.

With respect to providing details or information associated with the phone number that is being called consider the following.

In some embodiments when the user initiates a phone call from the web browser the phone number can be used to provide additional details or information about the callee to the user. For example a server or predefined database can maintain mappings between phone numbers and the additional details or information. When the phone number is called the additional details or information can be surfaced to the user. Further when the phone number is called a reverse number lookup can be conducted to identify the entity e.g. the business associated with the phone number. The business name or other information associated with the business can be utilized to conduct a secondary search to retrieve additional relevant information about the business. As an example consider .

There the user is in the process of calling Frank s Pizza as indicated by the user interface instrumentality . Using the called number to conduct a reverse number lookup additional details or information can be provided to enhance the user s experience. In this specific example such details or information includes by way of example and not limitation a map and a shared media portion in which additional information about the callee can be provided. In this particular example the shared media portion allows the user to click on or otherwise select selections were they can learn more about the pizza offerings and drinks available at Frank s Pizza. Further other information can be provided such as ratings reviews and the like. This can enhance the user s experience because the user can acquire additional information about the callee without having to do any additional searching or work.

In at least some embodiments the additional information may be presented to the user in the form of a webpage to which the browser was navigated. In the present example assume that the user calls Frank s Pizza as described above. Responsive to the call being made the web browser can be navigated to Frank s website which can then be rendered underneath the user instrumentality . The additional information can also include information such as that which indicates to the user that the call is free. In this case the information would be provided for the user actually placed a particular call.

Further in at least some embodiments the P2P service provider e.g. Skype can provide phone numbers to entities and businesses that are to be listed in advertisements. These numbers will typically be routed through the service provider s network. As such the service provider can track information associated with the phone number and form the basis of providing rich data to the user. Such data can include by way of example and not limitation call duration demographics location and other content.

With respect to providing details or information not necessarily associated with the phone number that is being called consider the following.

In some embodiments when the user starts a call since the phone number is known a reverse lookup can be conducted to identify other similar entities as the callee. For example if the user opts to call Frank s Pizza a reverse number lookup can be conducted for other pizza businesses. These other pizza businesses can be surfaced by the web browser for the user. In addition this can be performed in connection with the call billing program described above. Specifically when a user calls a particular number a reverse number lookup can be conducted for other businesses or entities that participate in the call billing program. These participating businesses or entities can then be surfaced to the user along with an indication that calls to their associated phone numbers are free. This provides the user with a larger selection of entities or businesses from which to choose. In addition it allows a user to place free calls.

Step receives web content that includes one or more telephone numbers. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example web content in the form of a webpage can be received by the web browser. Step identifies one or more telephone numbers that appear in the web content. This step can be performed in any suitable way examples of which are provided above.

At this point the method can branch to step which uses the telephone numbers to conduct a reverse number lookup and subsequently display at step information associated with the reverse number lookup. In this example the display of information takes place before the call is placed. The display of information can include by way of example and not limitation an indication of which calls are free or other information associated with the owner of the number.

Step displays a notification that one or more telephone numbers can be called. The step can be performed in any suitable way. For example in at least some embodiments an icon is displayed next to the telephone numbers. Alternately or additionally notifications indicating that the various telephone numbers can be called free of charge can be displayed.

At this point the method can branch to step which uses the telephone numbers to conduct a reverse number lookup and subsequently display at step information associated with the reverse number lookup. This information can be different information than that which was previously displayed after step . In this example the display of information takes place before the call is placed.

Step receives an indication associated with a call to an identified telephone number. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example in at least some embodiments an indication in the form of a mouse click can be received. Alternately or additionally an indication in the form of a touch selection natural user interface NUI selection stylus selection and the like can be utilized.

At this point the method can branch to step which uses the telephone numbers to conduct a reverse number lookup and subsequently display at step information associated with the reverse number lookup. This information can be different information than that which was previously displayed after steps and . In this example the display of information takes place before the call is placed.

At this point the method can branch to step which uses the telephone numbers to conduct a reverse number lookup and subsequently display at step information associated with the reverse number lookup. This information can be different information than that which was previously displayed after steps and or . In this example the display of information takes place during the call.

Consider now various sources from which a reverse number lookup can be generated. In the examples above a reverse number lookup was generated based upon the phone number being included in web content that is consumed by a web platform such as a web browser. A reverse number or keyword lookup can also be generated through content that is processed by a P2P client application such as that described above a chat client an e mail client and the like. Specifically assume that a user operating their chat client types in do you want to eat pizza tonight The chat client software can identify the key word pizza highlight it and give the user options of merchants that they can call for free. The options can be displayed within the chat client or application from which the content was obtained. Alternately or additionally a web browser can be launched and the keyword utilized for a search that returns search results such as those described above. In this manner keywords obtained in an application that is different from a web browser can be utilized to automatically launch a web browser or otherwise cause the keywords to be used by the web browser to provide search results with individual phone numbers that can be called for free from within the web browser.

Having considered various embodiments consider now an example system that can be utilized to implement the embodiments described above.

In the example system multiple devices are interconnected through a central computing device. The central computing device may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the multiple devices. In one embodiment the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that implement a service provider and or charging gateway as described above. These computers can be connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link. In one embodiment this interconnection architecture enables functionality to be delivered across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the multiple devices may have different physical requirements and capabilities and the central computing device uses a platform to enable the delivery of an experience to the device that is both tailored to the device and yet common to all devices. In one embodiment a class of target devices is created and experiences are tailored to the generic class of devices. A class of devices may be defined by physical features types of usage or other common characteristics of the devices.

In various implementations the end user terminal may assume a variety of different configurations such as for computer mobile and television uses. Each of these configurations includes devices that may have generally different constructs and capabilities and thus the end user terminal may be configured according to one or more of the different device classes. For instance the end user terminal may be implemented as the computer class of a device that includes a personal computer desktop computer a multi screen computer laptop computer netbook and so on. Each of these different configurations may employ the techniques described herein through a suitably configured client application which can serve to enable a user to make calls and or participate in other communication sessions as described above.

The end user terminal may also be implemented as the mobile class of device that includes mobile devices such as a mobile phone portable music player portable gaming device a tablet computer a multi screen computer and so on. The end user terminal may also be implemented as the television class of device that includes devices having or connected to generally larger screens in casual viewing environments. These devices include televisions set top boxes gaming consoles and so on. The techniques described herein may be supported by these various configurations of the end user terminal and are not limited to the specific examples the techniques described herein.

The cloud includes and or is representative of a platform for content services . The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware e.g. servers and software resources of the cloud . The content services may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the end user terminal . Content services can be provided as a service over the Internet and or through a subscriber network such as a cellular or Wi Fi network.

The platform may abstract resources and functions to connect the end user terminal with other computing devices. The platform may also serve to abstract scaling of resources to provide a corresponding level of scale to encountered demand for the content services that are implemented via the platform . Accordingly in an interconnected device embodiment implementation of functionality described herein may be distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part on the end user terminal as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Various embodiments provide a subscription management service which can be in band or out of band which allows users to extend their subscription or temporarily side step payment limits on a subscription without disrupting the user s experience. The various embodiments can be operable in all on demand services including but not limited to video services voice services video voice services text services Web services and the like.

Although the embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the various embodiments defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the various embodiments.

