---

title: User interface for secure virtual document management system
abstract: A user interface for a virtual file management system that provides user access to managed content on mobile devices. The system comprises storage domains storing the managed content distributively using file systems, and a data infrastructure that organizes the managed content into a virtual file system. The data infrastructure includes a component that maintains policies defining controls for permissible operations on the managed content, the permissible operations including the file system primitives. A client application including a user interface is hosted on the mobile devices and is coupled to the data infrastructure and the storage domains and includes an enforcement component that retrieves and enforces the policies by applying the controls on the mobile devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122887&OS=09122887&RS=09122887
owner: MOBILE IRON, INC.
number: 09122887
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 725 004 entitled USER INTERFACE FOR SECURE VIRTUAL DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM filed Nov. 11 2012.

This application is a continuation in part application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 734 525 entitled SECURE VIRTUAL FILE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM filed Jan. 4 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 584 112 entitled CLOUD CONTENT EXCHANGE SERVICE filed Jan. 6 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 724 966 entitled SECURE VIRTUAL DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM filed Nov. 10 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 725 004 entitled USER INTERFACE FOR SECURE VIRTUAL DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM filed Nov. 11 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 725 007 entitled SECURE VIRTUAL DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM filed Nov. 11 2012 all of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The embodiments described herein relate to user interface controls for an application running on a mobile device and providing mobile device users control of enterprise content across and among content storage locations including on premise content management systems cloud based enterprise content management systems and cloud based storage services. The embodiments provide secure access from mobile devices to content across these locations while enforcing policies and monitoring tracking controlling mobile device use of managed content.

Averail Cloud Content Exchange CloudXchange or ACXS service also referred to herein as Averail or the Averail system is a cloud hosted service that provides secure access from mobile devices smartphones and tablets to an aggregated set of on premise Enterprise Content Management ECM and or storage systems and cloud storage services as described in detail in the Related Applications. There is a need for a user interface for the cloud hosted service that provides secure access from mobile devices smartphones and tablets to an aggregated set of on premise Enterprise Content Management ECM and or storage systems and cloud storage services.

Each patent patent application and or publication mentioned in this specification is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety to the same extent as if each individual patent patent application and or publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Averail Cloud Content Exchange CloudXchange or ACXS service also referred to herein as Averail or the Averail system is a cloud hosted service that provides secure access from mobile devices smartphones and tablets to an aggregated set of on premise Enterprise Content Management ECM and or storage systems and cloud storage services. These ECM and cloud storage services can include on premise SharePoint Office 365 with SharePoint Online Dropbox iCloud Google Docs and Box.Net.

The Averail cloud based service implements a cloud based secure virtual document management service SVDM as described in greater detail below. In the descriptions and embodiments set forth below the SVDM system may be referred to as the ACXS SVDM service the Averail CloudXchange service or ACXS service. One skilled in the art will understand that the ACXS cloud based service in cooperation with the Averail mobile application provides the core functionality of the secure virtual document management system Accordingly the SVDM system may therefore at times be used interchangeably with the terms ACXS SVDM service the Averail CloudXchange service or ACXS service.

The SVDM implements a suite of encryption and policy control solutions across a plurality of traditionally siloed storage services ECM systems and applications. The Averail CloudXchange service is a secure virtual document management system that is cloud hosted service and provides secure access from mobile devices smartphones and tablets to a federated set of on premise ECM storage system and cloud storage services. These ECM and cloud storage services can include on premise SharePoint Office 365 with SharePoint Online Dropbox iCloud Google Docs Google Drive and Box.Net. Each such ECM and cloud storage domain integrated within the Averail system is referred to as a storage domain.

The Averail system includes a mobile device node comprising mobile devices tablets and or web clients. The mobile devices include the Averail mobile application running on iOS Android Windows Phone and Windows 8 platforms. The Averail system includes a cloud based node which implements the Averail CloudXchange service ACXS . The cloud based ACXS is deployed and operated on public and or private cloud computing platforms. The Averail ACXS service uses the primitives and services of an underlying cloud based computing platform. As one example these underlying services may include computing storage relational databases structured and blob storage stores and virtual private cloud services The Averail end to end system further includes an enterprise node environment containing enterprise applications ECM systems file storage systems Active Directory domain federation servers and VPN appliances. Finally the Averail system includes one or more cloud storage services and ECM systems. Examples include Box.net Dropbox iCloud Office365.com Google Docs and Microsoft SkyDrive etc.

Each node represents an architected collection of subsystems and components that provides a defined set of services and functionality as part of the overall system. A node connects and interfaces using different technologies for example REST web services interfaces over HTTP between Averail mobile application and ACXS cloud service with one or more other nodes to define the overall end to end architecture. The system architecture specifies the normative reference architecture for each node interfaces and interactions across nodes and the entire end to end system. This reference architecture can be realized using different software technologies for example Amazon AWS or Windows Azure can be the underlying cloud computing platform public or private cloud and conforms to the overall system requirements and architecture framework.

The ACXS architecture described below focuses on both logical model and physical deployment models. Depending on the scale of the Averail services logical components can be deployed in different physical topologies and configurations. The AXCS service maintains a logical data model for each enterprise customer of the Averail service. The logical data model includes a federated identity model a policy and authorization model a federated content forest model and a device management model. The ACXS service combines information from the logical data models on a per customer basis to perform its cloud side part of the functionality related to federation of cloud storage and on premise ECM secure content management policy management and enforcement and monitoring reporting and analytics. The identity model includes the user s Averail identity and credentials the user s associated device s unique identifier s and user identity and credentials for each federated storage domain. The federated content forest model maintains a metadata based forest of storage domains a storage domain is either a federated ECM or cloud storage system and corresponding content hierarchy. The device management model includes data for all user devices enrolled and managed for an enterprise customer as part of the Averail service. Device data includes information about the configuration and settings of all devices device posture and device management policies defined by that customer for its set of devices. A Policy and Authorization Model under an embodiment. includes information of policies and permissions. The Averail service administrator uses a service management application console to define security policies definitions that are applicable to the Averail managed storage domains. Averail CloudXchange service stores these policies in an underlying secure policy store. The Averail system implements broad classes of management policies including information management collaboration and sharing compliance and auditing cross domain routing across storage domains synchronization mobile application specific policies device management policies and or information rights management policies. The policy and authorization model also inherits policies from federated storage domains. The requirement is to ensure that inherited policies are always enforced and cannot be overridden but may be augmented by Averail specific policies. CloudXchange service also models groups and permissions for both those inherited from storage domains Active Directory and those defined within Averail context under an embodiment.

The Averail service stores content metadata accessed from its federated storage domains and ECM domains permissions and policies definitions securely in its databases and structured storage. The Averail mobile application can access this information using secure and trusted REST interfaces exposed by ACXS service. However any access and operations on the content from mobile device itself happen directly between the application on the mobile device and storage domain services.

The Averail system provides a managed storage content management container to the mobile device user. The managed container under an embodiment includes a combination of cloud based storage services cloud based ECM services Microsoft and on premise ECM services SharePoint . While a user can continue to store and manage personal content music videos photos documents from a smartphone or tablet onto cloud storage ECM service of his her own choice Averail ensures that any content that is stored or imported into underlying federated cloud storage and or on premise ECM services within the Averail domain is secure and adheres complies to policy and permissions defined by enterprise content administrators and Averail service administrators.

Under the SVDM concept and service the user has the option to import or move documents from other applications on the device into the Averail managed domain and make these Averail managed documents. User can share Averail managed documents with other users and devices directly via the Averail service or indirectly via 3party applications Chatter Zoho Google Apps provided policies and permissions allow such sharing. If user shares content or exports content from Averail managed domain with other users applications then the content is still managed as per requirements example audit trail policy and permissions for Averail managed domain. For example if Averail document sharing policy doesn t allow an Averail managed document to be shared with an anonymous user Averail enforces that policy on document sharing. Under an embodiment the ACXS system provides cross domain routing across storage domains. Given that Averail service federates multiple cloud storage and ECM services a user has the option of copying moving or do export import for example Open in . . . on iPhone or iPad moves the document to local sandboxed file system of the target application of the content across these storage domains. For example a user can move a document from on premise SharePoint site that doesn t allow external access to non employees to Box.Net so that user can provide access to this document to a customer. However such cross domain routing is subjected to policies and permissions defined within the Averail service. The SVDM system under an embodiment restricts cross domain routing across and among cloud and ECM locations including iCloud Dropbox Box Microsoft Office 365 and SharePoint.

The Averail service provides security for data at rest for documents on both mobile device and federated ACXS cloud storage. Averail services enable service administrator and mobile users to set policy to ensure that any content stored on public cloud storage services is always encrypted using keys managed and controlled by either the user or Averail customer. Given Averail CloudXchange service of an embodiment is not on the data plane the content encryption and decryption happens on the mobile device by Averail mobile applications. Also SSL TLS is used during communication between device and cloud storage service. The goal is to ensure that content is never in clear either at rest or in transit as it goes from device to public cloud storage services.

As seen in the mobile devices within the mobile node of the Averail system run the Averail mobile application. Under an embodiment the Averail mobile application uses rich platform specific mobile application or an HTML5 application to access Averail services for secure mobile content access and management cloud storage aggregation and document collaboration. With respect to mobile devices and tablets the mobile applications are platform specific native mobile applications distributed through public app stores or enterprise app stores. Averail supports iOS for iPhone and iPad Android tablet phone and Windows Phone applications. The Averail application may also run as an HTML5 application that can be accessed using HTML5 capable browser. Note that HTML5 mobile applications may have limitations including limitations in terms of device native UX local storage and access to native OS APIs for encryption.

The Averail application provides users an easy to use UX to access Averail services and its federated set of ECM and cloud storage services without introducing complexities related to service administration and policy definition functions. A user can perform at least the following functions using the Averail mobile application.

The Averail application provides capability to view edit create and manage content hierarchy document libraries folders etc. metadata and content itself

The Averail application provides capability to export document from Averail mobile application to other viewer and collaboration email applications under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to import document from other applications to Averail application under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to share across multiple storage domains securely under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to share documents across standard custom groups and users under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to search for document within across folders sites and storage domains under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to manage and tag items for offline access under an embodiment.

The Averail application provides capability to subscribe to notifications or alerts for conditions events related to content folders sharing workflow or system events under an embodiment.

As indicated above Averail provides an Averail application specific to mobile devices running iOS Android or Windows mobile device operating systems. The Averail system additionally provides a web based browser interface to an Averail HTML5 application. The following description of an Averail application interface includes a description of the Averail application as presented on an iPad running the application in an iOS environment. However embodiments of the application interface as implemented in iOS Android and or Windows based operating systems and or through WebUX are not so limited. In the interface description below the Averail application as implemented on an iPad device may be referred to as the Averail Access application or Averail Access user interface but embodiments are not so limited.

To assist in navigation and feature actions the Averail system implements menu items along the right side of the display. The menu items from top to bottom include search documents favorites recent documents add site notifications and settings. The menu items and related interfaces and or functionalities associated with each such menu item are described in greater detail below. Users may add delete and modify folders or site information from the Dashboard screen. Press and hold permits a user to show the Delete icon on an item on the Dashboard as seen in .

The Averail dashboard of includes a My Access folder under an embodiment. The My Access Folder is a folder for a user to manage view browse and open files locally on the mobile device. The user opens the My Access folder by tapping it from the Dashboard. When opened the My Access folder view displays a list of files and folders along the left side of the screen. is a screen shot of the My Access folder view under an embodiment. The folder view occupies a left justified column portion of the screen with a width approximately one third the width of the overall screen view. An upper portion of the folder view includes a search item button a manage button and an add file item button across the top of the folder view. A lower portion of the folder view includes tab view controllers including All Recent Favorites and Notifications .

A user may touch the Recent view tab to display a reverse chronological list of recently viewed files. A user may then select an item in the list to view or open that file. is an example of a Recent files view accessed within the My Access folder view. The selected file is displayed on the right side of the screen. The user may view the file in full screen mode by selecting the expand icon to fold back the navigation panel on the left

A user may touch the Favorites view tab to display a sorted list of files that have been explicitly marked as Favorites by user within the Averail system interface as further described below . is an example of a Favorites file view accessed from within the My Access folder view. The selected file is displayed on the right side of the screen. The user may view the file in full screen mode by selecting the expand icon to fold back the navigation panel on the left.

A user may touch the Notifications tab to display a sorted list of events or messages for the user. These can be system messages such as system downtime or item related messages such as User X has shared File Y with you . Notification items may be selected to display detailed information such as time date filename etc. A user may touch the All tab to return to the My Access folder view. is an example of a Notifications file view accessed from within the My Access folder view. displays no notifications under an embodiment.

From within the My Access folder view the user may select the add folder button. shows a Create a Folder dialogue box that appears when the user selects the add folder button within the reports folder of the My Access container. The user is presented with keyboard enabled entry to enter the name of the folder that the user would like to create. Selecting the create button completes the operation and creates the folder. Alternatively the user may select the cancel button to cancel the operation.

Local search is available from the upper left side of split view displays within any of the content folders represented in the Averail Access dashboard including the My Access Dropbox and SharePoint containers under an embodiment. shows an example of a user searching local files stored locally on a mobile device i.e. within the My Access folder. To search the user enters a search string into the search box. Results appear below the search box. With reference to the user initiates the search from within the reports folder of the My Access container see . The user selects the search item icon and enters the search term tech in the search window using the exposed keyboard. The search returns documents on the device containing the word tech as shown in . Local search is initiated within a given site and the scope of the search is limited to the document tree at that level and below. Under an embodiment not shown in users have an option to continue extended search on the server in the event that located files are not cached on the mobile device.

The Averail dashboard of includes a SharePoint container or folder. A SharePoint folder is a folder for the user to manage view browse and open files on the mobile device that are stored in an on premise SharePoint site. SharePoint folders may correspond to SharePoint site collections sites subsites libraries lists web parts or folders. The user opens the folder by tapping the folder from the Dashboard. Users or System Administrators may configure multiple SharePoint sites for display on the Dashboard. When opened the SharePoint folder view displays a list of files folders sites or other SharePoint elements along the left side of the screen. The SharePoint folder view occupies a left justified column portion of the screen with a width approximately one third the width of the overall screen view. An upper portion of the folder view includes a search item button a manage button and an add file item button across the top of the folder document list. A lower portion of the folder view screen includes tab view controllers including All Recent Favorites and Notifications . The Recent Favorites and Notifications tabs maintain the same functionality as those described with respect to the My Access folder view.

As seen in a user has selected the Manage button in the upper portion of the SharePoint folder view area. Selecting the manage view area places the application into the Manage mode. This allows the user to select one or more items from the left view panel for actions by checking radio buttons next to each such item. Actions are contextual and displayed below the listed items of the display area. Such actions appear in a row along the lower portion of the SharePoint folder view and include Done and Download. is an example of activating the download command within the SharePoint manage mode. Selecting or checking a target file and then the download command provides the user a Download to My Access dialogue box which permits the user to download the file to a location within the My Access folder structure. The user may download the file to the target location displayed in the dialogue box or move the file to a newly created folder.

The Averail dashboard of includes a Dropbox folder. A Dropbox folder is a folder for the user to manage view browse and open files on the mobile device that are stored in a Dropbox account. The user opens the folder by tapping it from the Dashboard. When opened the Dropbox folder view displays a list of files and folders along the left side. The Dropbox folder view occupies a left justified column portion of the screen with a width approximately one third the width of the overall screen view. An upper portion of the folder view includes a search item button a manage button and an add file item button across the top of the folder document list. A lower portion of the folder view screen includes tab view controllers including All Recent Favorites and Notifications . The Recent Favorites and Notifications tabs maintain the same functionality as those described with respect to the My Access folder view. shows documents within a DropBox container under an embodiment. The user has selected the CloudArc . . . xlsx document which is displayed to the right of the screen in split screen mode. Selecting a file displayed in the folder view displays that item on the right panel. The user may view the file in full screen mode by selecting the Expand icon to fold back the navigation panel on the left. To view file details or metadata the user may select the Details icon in the upper right of the screen by selecting the tile icon comprising three parallel horizontally stacked bars . To mark unmark a file for offline viewing the user may select the Star icon on the upper right. To select an Open In action such as print copy or Open In another app the user may select the Open In or action menu item in the upper right comprising box arrow icon directly to the right of the details icon. Sharing editing copying and printing features are displayed across the upper right side based upon context. The displayed action items depend on the type and location of document e.g. pdf document stored in a DropBox location in relation to defined policies and permissions for document and or user identity under an embodiment.

As seen in a user has selected the Manage button in the upper portion of the DropBox folder view area. Selecting manage button places the application into the Manage mode. This allows the user to select one or more items from the left view panel for actions by checking radio buttons next to each such item. Actions are contextual and displayed below the listed items of the display area. Such actions appear in a row along the lower portion of the DropBox folder view and include Done Download and Delete. is an example of activating the download command within the DropBox manage mode. Selecting or checking a target file and then the download command provides the user a Download to My Access dialogue box which permits the user to download the file to a location within the My Access folder structure. The user may download the file to the target location displayed in the dialogue box or move the file to a newly created folder.

As described above Averail Access uses a dashboard or workspace concept that organizes content into folders that are readily accessible to users running the Averail application on an iPad. Each folder may correspond to a different content domain for example a Dropbox account or a distinct corporate SharePoint site or subsite library or folder under an embodiment. As described above is an Averail workspace dashboard under an embodiment. To assist in navigation and feature actions the dashboard features the menu items along the right side of the display. The menu items include search documents recent documents favorites add site notifications and settings.

A user may select the search button to initiate a global search. Under an embodiment global search permits a user to search for files across content sites by inputting a string into a search box. Search results are displayed below the search box. is an example of a global search under an embodiment. Users have an option to continue extended search on the server in the event that files are not cached on the mobile device. Global search is similar to local search but search strings with results that match multiple items across sites will be grouped according to site under an embodiment not shown .

A user may view recent files by selecting the recent documents button on the main dashboard. The recent files view is also available for quick viewing via the tab view controller button located along the lower left side of the split view screens within a given document folder view as presented within My Access folder Sharepoint folder and Dropbox folder under an embodiment . The Recent files view presents the same display when accessed from either dashboard menu button or a document folder view controller see . The recent files view displays a reverse chronological list of list of recently viewed files. A user may select an item in the list to view or open that file.

A user may access the Favorites view via the menu button on the Dashboard. The Favorites view is also available for quick viewing via the tab view controller button located along the lower left side of the split view screens within a given document folder view as presented within My Access folder Sharepoint folder and Dropbox folder under an embodiment . The Favorites file view presents the same display when accessed from either dashboard menu button or a document folder view controller see . The Favorites view displays a sorted list of files that have been explicitly marked as Favorites within the Averail Access service interface. Favorites items are also available for offline viewing.

A user may add a site using the Add Site menu button located on the Dashboard. It permits a user to add a new storage site. When selected the Add Site button opens a selector bar overlay from which the user selects the type of site a user wishes to add. is an example of a selector bar under an embodiment. Once a user selects a site type the application interface navigates to a site configuration panel for the respective site. is an example of a site configuration panel under an embodiment.

The Notifications view is available via the menu Notifications menu button on the Dashboard. The Notifications view is also available for quick viewing via the tab view controller button located along the lower left side of the split view screen within a given document folder view as presented within My Access folder Sharepoint folder and Dropbox folder under an embodiment . The Notifications view presents the same display when accessed from either dashboard menu button or document folder view controller see . Under an embodiment the Notifications view displays a sorted list of events or messages for the user. These can be system messages such as system downtime or item related messages such as User X has shared File Y with you . Notification items can be selected to display detailed information such as time date filename etc.

The Settings panel is available via the Setting menu button on the Dashboard. When open the Settings panel displays configuration information and permits the user to take various actions. show in combination a settings panel display under an embodiment. The panel display includes Account Security About Policy and Developer sections.

The About section of the Settings panel includes Getting Started Help Tell a friend Send feedback terms of service and quick help options. The Getting Started Help option navigates users to support related information. The Tell a friend option permits a user to address and send a message to one or more friends to tell them about the Averail Access application. The Send feedback option permits a user to address and send feedback in a message to Averail support. Terms of service provides user the terms of service under which Averail application is available for use and the quick help option provides easily accessible support material.

Embodiments described herein include a virtual file management system VFMS that provides a user access to managed content on one or more mobile devices. The VFMS comprises a plurality of storage domains that store the managed content distributively using one or more file systems. The VFMS comprises at least one server hosting a data infrastructure that organizes the managed content into a virtual file system. The data infrastructure comprises a component that generates and maintains policies defining controls for permissible operations on the managed content with respect to the user on the one or more mobile devices. The VFMS comprises a client application hosted on the one or more mobile devices. The client application comprises a user interface. The client application is coupled to the data infrastructure and the plurality of storage domains and includes an enforcement component that retrieves and enforces the policies by applying the controls on the one or more mobile devices. The client application retrieves information of the virtual file system and provides access to the managed content by processing data requests using permissible operations. The client application exposes the permissible operations and the information of the virtual file system to one or more mobile applications that run on the one or more mobile devices and provides the access to the managed content through the user interface.

Embodiments described herein include a virtual file management system VFMS providing a user access to managed content on one or more mobile devices the system comprising a plurality of storage domains that store the managed content distributively using one or more file systems at least one server hosting a data infrastructure that organizes the managed content into a virtual file system wherein the data infrastructure comprises a component that generates and maintains policies defining controls for permissible operations on the managed content with respect to the user on the one or more mobile devices and a client application hosted on the one or more mobile devices wherein the client application comprises a user interface wherein the client application is coupled to the data infrastructure and the plurality of storage domains and includes an enforcement component that retrieves and enforces the policies by applying the controls on the one or more mobile devices wherein the client application retrieves information of the virtual file system and provides access to the managed content by processing data requests using permissible operations wherein the client application exposes the permissible operations and the information of the virtual file system to one or more mobile applications that run on the one or more mobile devices and provides the access to the managed content through the user interface.

The components described herein can be located together or in separate locations. Communication paths couple the components and include any medium for communicating or transferring files among the components. The communication paths include wireless connections wired connections and hybrid wireless wired connections. The communication paths also include couplings or connections to networks including local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs proprietary networks interoffice or backend networks and the Internet. Furthermore the communication paths include removable fixed mediums like floppy disks hard disk drives and CD ROM disks as well as flash RAM Universal Serial Bus USB connections RS 232 connections telephone lines buses and electronic mail messages.

Aspects of the systems and methods described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the systems and methods include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the systems and methods may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

It should be noted that any system method and or other components disclosed herein may be described using computer aided design tools and expressed or represented as data and or instructions embodied in various computer readable media in terms of their behavioral register transfer logic component transistor layout geometries and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and or instructions through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and or instructions by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP HTTPs FTP SMTP WAP etc. . When received within a computer system via one or more computer readable media such data and or instruction based expressions of the above described components may be processed by a processing entity e.g. one or more processors within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of embodiments of the systems and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the systems and methods are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the systems and methods provided herein can be applied to other systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the systems and methods in light of the above detailed description.

