---

title: Aggregated actions
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems receive a first plurality of actions from a first entity with respect to a first plurality of objects. A global object related to each of the first plurality of objects is determined and a representation of the global object is displayed in association with a representation of the first entity. Additionally, in response to receiving user feedback on the representation of the global object displayed in association with the representation of the first entity, an instance of the global object that is unique to the first entity is created. The displayed representation of the global object is converted into a representation of the instance of the global object that is unique to the first entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349020&OS=09349020&RS=09349020
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09349020
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131227
---
The various embodiments described herein relate aggregating user actions within a social network. Additionally the embodiments relate to user feedback on representations of aggregated actions within a social network.

Network services enable users to interact with various objects. For example a social networking system allows users to designate other users or entities as connections or otherwise connect to or form relationships with other users or entities contribute and interact with their connections post media or commentary use applications join groups list and confirm attendance at events invite connections and perform other tasks that facilitate social interaction. External applications also use the services of a social networking system to allow authenticated users to incorporate some of the above social interactions with use of the external applications. Similar interactions are a part of the user experience within other network services.

Representations of these user interactions are displayed in a graphical user interface e.g. in the form of a user the user s action and an object the user has acted upon. Other users create feedback with regard to these user interactions within the social networking system. For example a first user may take an action indicate that she listened to a song. A second user may see a representation of the first user s action and indicate that the second user likes that the first user listened to the song. The second user s feedback is specific to the first user s action in contrast to the second user generally liking the song the artist singing the song etc.

Exemplary methods apparatuses and systems aggregate a plurality of actions received directly or indirectly from a first entity to determine a common global object related to each of the objects acted upon. A representation of the global object is displayed in association with a representation of the first entity.

For example the first user of a social network may use a software application to listen to multiple songs by a particular band. The software in turn transmits messages to a social networking system indicating that the first user performed an action listening to the songs. In response the social networking system determines that each of the songs is attributed to the band and that the band is represented by a global object within the social networking system. A profile or other publication of the first user s interests is modified to display that the first user is interested in the band without the first user submitting a request to add the band to the profile.

In addition to displaying the global object as an interest of the first entity the social networking system enables other entities to leave feedback for the first entity regarding the interest in the subject of the global object. For example a second user of the social network may want to leave a comment or another form of feedback on the first user s interest the global object. This is in contrast to the second user leaving feedback directly on the global object regardless of the first entity s interest.

In response to receiving user feedback on the representation of the global object displayed in association with the representation of the first entity relationship object is created as an instance of the global object that is unique to the first entity. Fore example the displayed representation of the global object is converted into a representation of the relationship object. As a result the received feedback is specific to the first entity s interest in the subject of the global object and not feedback for the global object generally.

In one embodiment creating the relationship object includes applying a selection algorithm to select a device to create the relationship object. As a result embodiments avoid race conditions resulting from multiple devices trying to simultaneously create the relationship object. The selection algorithm provides all devices within the social networking system a consistent method to select the same device to create the relationship object unique to the first entity. For example the selection algorithm may include selecting the server or database that stores the representation of the first entity.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

Embodiments described herein create associations between a user and objects in various categories. A user may manually select an object such as music album and add it to a displayed collection of music the user likes. Additionally embodiments automatically select an object in response to actions related to that object. For example multiple user actions within in a social network are aggregated to find a commonality between the objects acted upon. A global object representing the commonality is displayed in association with the entity. This representation of the aggregated actions however is a representation of a global object that is not unique to the first entity. As a result when user feedback is received for the representation of the global object relationship object is created as an instance of the global object that is unique to the first entity is created.

In one embodiment users are able to provide feedback on actions of other users entities. As a result actions are also viewed as objects that may be acted upon. For example User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. As a result the social networking system publishes a narrative associated with User B e.g. in a newsfeed profile of User B etc. indicating that User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. In viewing a newsfeed profile of User B or another form of social networking system publication s the social networking system displays the narrative to User A. The social networking system then receives input from User A indicating that User A likes that User B listened to The Killers.

In one embodiment information may be added to user profiles . In one embodiment the user profiles include information such as relationships to other users places where the user has worked user interests etc. In one embodiment information further includes a weight or score indicating an affinity between a user and an object. For example repeated user action with one object may indicate a stronger affinity for that object than another object with which the user has limited interaction. First degree connections e.g. the friendship between User A and User B may indicate a stronger affinity than second degree connections e.g. User A is friends with User B who is friends with User C creating a second degree connection between User A and User C. An indication that two users are married may indicate a stronger affinity between those users than if two users are friends. Additionally temporal and geographic proximity of actions users are other exemplary indicators of affinity.

The illustrated objects and actions are exemplary social networking data used as the plurality of actions described above. In one embodiment users may select privacy settings to control what network service data is shared with whom the data is shared and or what data used for aggregation.

Returning to at block the social networking system optionally selects a set of the received actions based upon privacy settings designating what actions by the first entity are shared with a user seeking to view the first entity s aggregated actions. In other words the actions that social networking system aggregates are dependent upon a user attempting to view aggregated actions. As a result the social networking system may create different aggregated actions for the first entity based upon different viewing users. For example the first entity may have taken one or more actions with a public privacy setting and one or more actions with a friends only privacy setting. If a user requesting to view aggregated actions of the first entity is not friends with the first entity the user will not have permission to view the actions with the friends only privacy setting and the social networking system will aggregate only those actions with the public privacy setting. If another user requesting to view aggregated actions of the first entity is friends with the first entity the social networking system will aggregate both the actions with the public privacy setting and the actions with the friends only privacy setting. While described with reference to public and friends only settings privacy settings may include additional levels of privacy. For example the first entity may create privacy settings permitting actions to be viewed by designated users users based upon affinity or degrees of connectedness groups entities etc.

At block the social networking system aggregates the first entity s actions by determining a global object related to each of the first plurality of objects. For example for each action performed by the first entity and transmitted to the social networking system the social networking system compares metadata stored for an object that is the subject of the received action. Exemplary metadata includes names of artists actors directors authors composers titles of songs albums television shows books movies genres of music movies television shows books sports teams geographic locations and other data that describes an object of interest. If the action included the first entity listening to a song the social networking system would determine metadata associated with the song includes the artist band that performs the song. The social networking system would then compare the artist band against metadata of other subjects acted upon by the first entity. In one embodiment the social networking system limits comparisons of metadata to objects acted upon within a threshold period of time.

In one embodiment the social networking system determines if the metadatahas a representative global object within the social network. In one embodiment the social networking system aggregates multiple actions and determines one or more characteristics of interest types of metadata that the objects acted upon have in common. For example the social networking system may store a list of types of metadata such as artists bands and albums that when found in common between objects trigger a search for a representative global object.

In one embodiment the social networking system maintains a list of items of metadata that have corresponding global objects within the social networking system. If the first entity acts upon multiple objects that have an item of metadata in common that is included in the list the social networking system selects the corresponding global object. For example the social networking system may curate a list of candidate global objects that serve as metadata for other objects and correspond to categories of interest shared within the social network trending topics subjects etc.

In one embodiment the social networking system groups the interests of the first entity into one more collections. Exemplary collections include interests in music movies television shows books places fashion sports etc. As a result of the aggregation global object for Rage Against the Machine may be displayed in a collection of music displayed on a profile page for Butters .

In one embodiment aggregator determines multiple interesting characteristics from the first entity s actions. For example aggregator may further determine that each object and includes another common metadata item such as a particular album by the artist band Rage Against the Machine. As a result aggregator may generate a second global object for the album not shown . Alternatively aggregator may select one of the two possible global objects based upon priority. For example the stored listing of characteristics may further rank characteristics by priority. Returning to at block the social networking system optionally determines a privacy setting for the global object resulting from the aggregated actions. If all of the aggregated actions have a single privacy setting the resulting global object as displayed in association with the first entity will also have the same privacy setting. If however one or more of the aggregated actions have a different privacy setting the social networking system will select a privacy setting based upon the privacy settings of the aggregated actions. For example referring to if the actions listen and listen were set to a first privacy setting and the action attend was set to a second privacy setting the social networking system would select either the first or second privacy setting for global object . In one embodiment the social networking system selects the most restrictive privacy setting. Continuing with the example above if the first privacy setting for listen and listen is public and the second privacy setting for attend is friends only the social networking system assigns global object to the more restrictive friends only privacy setting.

In one embodiment the social networking system selects the most recent privacy setting. For example if the privacy setting for listen actions is changed such that listen occurs when the setting is friends only and listen occurs when the setting is public and the privacy setting for attend has a public privacy setting the social networking system determines that the first entity s most recent action listen corresponds to public and assigns global object to the public privacy setting.

In one embodiment the social networking system s determination of which privacy setting to use for the global object is dependent upon the actions with differing privacy settings. For example users may designate privacy settings based upon action type or application. Listen and listen are individual actions of the listen action type. If multiple actions of a single type that typically have a single privacy setting such as listen and listen have different privacy settings due to the first entity changing the privacy setting between actions the social networking system selects the privacy setting based upon the most recent privacy setting. If the actions are of different types with unique privacy settings and are not necessarily different due to the first entity changing the privacy setting between actions the social networking system selects the more restrictive privacy setting. In one embodiment the first entity may be prompted to or elect to set or change the privacy setting for the global object.

In one embodiment the first entity selects a privacy setting for the global object. For example the social networking system may initially display the global object using the privacy policy of the most recent action in the aggregated group of actions. At this point the privacy policy is ephemeral i.e. the privacy policy is not stored with the global object. If the first entity elects to manually set the privacy policy of the global object the manual privacy policy setting is stored with the global object and the social networking system uses the stored manual privacy policy for the global object thereafter.

In an embodiment in which privacy settings were utilized to select actions for aggregation as described with reference to block it is unnecessary to determine a privacy setting for the global object. As a result the social networking system may proceed directly to block .

At block the social networking system displays to the viewing user a representation of the global object in association with the first entity. For example the social networking system may display interests of the first entity within a profile page for the first entity or in another form of publication such as the first entity s interests in artists music movies television shows books places fashion sports etc. One of the interests is represented as the global object that results from the aggregation of actions described above. As described above the display of the global object may be subject to one or more privacy settings.

While displayed in association with the first entity the global object is a global representation that is not unique to the first entity. For example global object is a global representation of the artist Rage Against the Machine. The global representation of Rage Against the Machine is an object in the social graph representing the entity Rage Against the Machine. Additionally albums and songs by Rage Against the Machine may each be represented as objects within the social graph. Butters however has not taken a unique action with respect to Rage Against the Machine to manually add Rage Against the Machine to an interests portion of his profile page. For example Butters has not specifically liked or otherwise performed an action that would ordinarily result in Rage Against the Machine being added to the interests displayed on a profile page for Butters . Instead Butters has listened to music by Rage Against the Machine and attended a Rage Against the Machine concert. The association of the global object for the artist Rage Against the Machine is based upon an aggregation of actions and the determination of an interesting common attribute. As a result the displayed global object does not include a user action object acted upon relationship that results from the individual actions that are aggregated. For example the user Butters acted upon listened an object the song Killing in the Name by Rage Against the Machine . There is a distinct relationship between Butters and Killing in the Name defined by Butters listening to that song. Other users are able to view and generate feedback on this relationship. This feedback is unique to the action relationship between Butters and Killing in the Name as opposed to the other user taking his her own action with respect to Killing in the Name . The association between global object and Butters however does not yet include an explicit action upon which a viewing user may provide feedback.

In one embodiment the social networking system displays the global object in association with the first entity for a limited amount of time. Given that the first entity did not explicitly take an action with respect to the global object the association between the first entity and the global object is temporary unless the global object is converted into a unique object e.g. as described below . In one embodiment the limited amount of time is extended if the social networking system aggregates additional actions by the first entity and determines that the global object is related to the additional actions.

At block the social networking system receives user feedback on the representation of the global object displayed in association with the representation of the first entity. For example referring again to the social networking system displays global object to a user viewing a social networking profile timeline or other data for Butters . To let Butters know what the viewing user thinks of Butters interest in Rage Against the Machine the viewing user selects an option to like comment on or leave another form of feedback on the displayed global object.

At block the social networking system creates a relationship object that is an instance of the global object or the first entity s relationship with the global object that is unique to the first entity in response to the received user feedback. As described above the global object is not unique to the first entity and the first entity has not taken an explicit action with respect to the first entity to the global object. Without the relationship object the viewing user s feedback may be unintentionally directed to the global object itself rather than a relationship between the first entity and the global object. As a result the social networking creates the relationship object to enable user feedback on the aggregation of the first entity s actions. For example the social networking system may create a copy of the global object with metadata indicating the relationship between the first entity and the object.

In one embodiment the social networking system applies a selection algorithm to select a device to create the relationship object. If multiple users were to attempt to leave feedback on the representation of the global object displayed in association with the representation of the first entity within the same period of time it is possible that multiple servers within the social networking system would attempt to simultaneously create the unique relationship object. This race condition will likely cause an error e.g. the feedback from a user may be created and erased by feedback from another user . As a result the social networking system utilizes a selection algorithm to provide all devices within the social networking system with a consistent method to select the same single device to create the relationship object. If all devices that receive feedback on the representation of the global object direct the request to create a unique instance to the same device that single device can prevent race conditions or at least enable a device to generate receive an error message when the request fails. In one embodiment the selection algorithm includes selecting the server or database storing the representation of the first entity. Alternatively the selection algorithm includes selecting another server or database designated for the purpose of creating unique instances of a particular global object using a hash algorithm on the global object or another method to enable devices to consistently select the same device.

At block the social networking system converts the displayed representation of the global object to a relationship object that is unique to the first entity or a unique object representing the relationship between the first entity and the global object . The relationship object conveys the same information as the global object and further enables feedback unique to the first entity. As described above the global object may be associated with the first entity for a limited period of time. In one embodiment the relationship object is associated with the first entity for a period of time is greater than the limited period time for the global object. For example the relationship object may become a persistent object stored in the social graph.

In one embodiment the relationship object is displayed with the privacy setting determined in block . In one embodiment the display of this privacy setting is dependent upon the underlying privacy settings for individual actions. If the plurality of actions has a homogenous privacy setting the privacy setting for the unique relationship object is displayed as a discrete privacy setting. If however the actions have heterogeneous privacy settings i.e. a combination of different privacy settings the privacy setting for the unique relationship object is displayed as a link to the individual actions a link to the individual privacy settings or otherwise represent a heterogeneous mix of privacy settings.

While method is described above with reference to a single set of actions and corresponding global object the social networking system may process multiple sets of actions comprised of overlapping or unique actions objects and or action object pairings and determine global objects associated with each set of actions. In one embodiment the social networking system receives a second plurality of actions from the first entity with respect to a second plurality of objects within the social networking system. Similar to the description above the social networking system determines a second global object related to each of the second plurality of objects. The social networking system may further determine that the second global object is the same as the global object that the social networking system determined to be related to the first plurality of objects. For example the social networking system may search the temporarily stored representations of the relationship between the first entity and global objects. Additionally the social networking system may search for a stored relationship object that is unique to the first entity. For example the social networking system may search the metadata of relationship objects for an indication of the created relationship.

As a result the search for the global relationship object the social networking system determines that the association between the first entity and the global object has previously been created and avoids creating a duplicate association. In response to the second determination of the global object s association with objects acted upon by the first entity the social networking system extends the limited period of time the global object is associated with the first entity e.g. if the representation of the global object has not be converted into a relationship object .

User interface may be presented in a different manner depending upon the viewer. For example when the entity represented by the interests displayed is viewing user interface the entity may be presented with user interface elements to control or change the content displayed and or shared with others. When viewed by the entity each collection includes an interface element to enable the entity to edit privacy settings for the corresponding collection. Additionally user interface includes a suggestion area that includes music by album artist etc. recommendations from which the first entity may select and add to liked music area . In one embodiment the suggestion area includes a search box to enable the first entity to search for music to add to liked music area of music collection .

Music collection includes global relationship object within the liked music area . In contrast to music that the first entity may add using suggested music area global relationship object is displayed in area of music collection as a result of aggregation as described above . Global relationship object is displayed with artist information . In one embodiment artist information provides a link to a profile page or other webpage for the artist band represented by the global relationship object . Additionally another interface element not shown may be displayed to the first entity along with global relationship object to enable the entity to edit privacy settings for that individual object .

When a second entity views user interface the second entity is presented music collection with liked music displaying global relationship object . User interface however would not display recommendation area or privacy control element to the second entity. In proximity to global relationship object user interface includes feedback interface object . In one embodiment the second entity s selection of feedback interface object triggers the social networking system to generate a feedback action e.g. the second entity likes the first entity s interest in Rage Against the Machine as represented by global relationship object . Alternatively the second entity s selection of feedback interface object triggers the social networking system to open a dialogue box or otherwise provide the second entity with options for generating similar feedback e.g. leaving a comment . As described above such feedback may cause the social networking system to convert a representation of a global object into a relationship object specific to the first entity.

The social networking system includes platform storage an aggregator and or object generator one or more application programming interfaces API s a social graph e.g. as illustrated in and one or more platform applications . Platform storage stores user preferences settings profile data interaction data object metadata demographic data etc. Exemplary platform applications include the platform for social interactions e.g. publishing posts pictures etc. as well as social games messaging services and any other application that uses the social platform provided by the social networking system . While illustrated as a single block social networking system may include a plurality of servers and or data stores.

In one embodiment the object generator and or a platform application perform method described above. Interaction data object metadata demographic data associations between entities and objects etc. is received from platform storage and or the social graph and the mappings are stored in platform storage . Alternatively one or more of the method and or data is performed stored external to the social networking system .

One or more API s enable external applications to work with the social networking system . For example an external application utilizes an API to authenticate a user based upon the user s social networking log in username and password. Additionally an external application utilizes one or more API s to run the application within the platform application to publish a post to the platform application to access the user s social network connections within the social graph etc. In one embodiment an external application performs method and data is received from and or stored in one or both of external storage or in platform storage .

The data processing system includes memory which is coupled to the microprocessor s . The memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . The memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. The memory may be internal or distributed memory.

The data processing system also includes an audio input output subsystem which may include a microphone and or a speaker for for example playing back music or other audio receiving voice instructions to be executed by the microprocessor s playing audio notifications etc. A display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user.

The data processing system also includes one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces which are provided to allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system. These I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner network interface modem other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices. The touch input panel may be a single touch input panel which is activated with a stylus or a finger or a multi touch input panel which is activated by one finger or a stylus or multiple fingers and the panel is capable of distinguishing between one or two or three or more touches and is capable of providing inputs derived from those touches to the processing system .

The I O devices and interfaces may also include a connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet etc. to connect the system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary I O devices and interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 2G 3G 4G etc. or another wireless protocol to connect the data processing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

The data processing system is an exemplary representation of one or more of user s device at least a portion of the social networking system or the external server . The data processing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In other embodiments the data processing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer device system processing system processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with the data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

It will be appreciated that additional components not shown may also be part of the system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in a data processing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the computer implemented method may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via a network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a networked computer system. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Various embodiments and aspects of the invention s are described with reference to details discussed herein and the accompanying drawings illustrate the various embodiments. The description above and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an exemplary embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment may necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment such feature structure or characteristic may be implemented in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. Blocks with dashed borders e.g. large dashes small dashes dot dash dots are used herein to illustrate optional operations that add additional features to embodiments of the invention. However such notation should not be taken to mean that these are the only options or optional operations and or that blocks with solid borders are not optional in certain embodiments of the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

