---

title: High-speed photonic modulator designs
abstract: An optical device includes a microdisk optical resonator element. The microdisk resonator element is formed on a substrate and has upper and lower portions respectively distal and proximal the substrate. An arcuate semiconductor contact region partially surrounds the microdisk resonator element. A first modulator electrode is centrally formed on the upper portion of the microdisk resonator element, and a second modulator electrode is formed on the arcuate contact region. A laminar semiconductor region smaller in thickness than the microdisk resonator element separates the arcuate contact region from the microdisk resonator element and is formed on the substrate so as to electrically connect the arcuate contact region to the lower portion of the microdisk resonator element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08947764&OS=08947764&RS=08947764
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08947764
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130411
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 622 596 entitled HIGH SPEED PHOTONIC MODULATOR DESIGNS and filed on Apr. 11 2012 which application is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed generally to high speed photonic modulator designs and more particularly to resonant modulators such as those in disk and ring geometries.

One type of optical modulator that has promise for high speed applications such as exascale computing and next generation optical communications is the resonant optical modulator. A resonant optical modulator includes an optical resonator that is typically a waveguiding ring or disk of silicon although other geometries and other materials are not excluded. An input and output optical beam is coupled to the resonator by directing the beam through a waveguide which may e.g. be a rectilinear planar waveguide situated within an evanescent coupling distance of the resonator.

Within a characteristic wavelength band such a modulator is relatively transmissive when light coupled into the modulator excites a resonant mode of the resonator and is less transmissive when it goes out of resonance with the coupled light. The resonance may be controlled by e.g. thermal or electronic modification of the optical velocity within the resonator.

One of the advantages of resonant modulators relative to competing technologies is that they occupy a relatively small volume and as a consequence are conservative as to wafer real estate and as to power demands. Because the design of such modulators is a relatively new field there remain opportunities for further improving their performance.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention is a photonic modulator including a disk resonator and modulator electrodes. In contrast to more conventional designs in which both modulator electrodes are defined in a central portion of the device one of the modulator electrodes is moved to the periphery of the inventive device. By this means the series resistance between the modulator electrodes can be reduced thereby increasing the operating radiofrequency bandwidth of the device.

Accordingly the present invention in one aspect is an optical device including a microdisk optical resonator element. By microdisk resonator element is meant an element that operates at least in part but necessarily in entirety as a microdisk optical resonator. The microdisk resonator element is formed on a substrate and has upper and lower portions respectively distal and proximal the substrate. An arcuate i.e. arc shaped but not covering an entire 360 degrees semiconductor contact region partially surrounds the microdisk resonator element. A first modulator electrode is centrally formed on the upper portion of the microdisk resonator element and a second modulator electrode is formed on the arcuate contact region. A laminar semiconductor region smaller in thickness than the microdisk resonator element separates the arcuate contact region from the microdisk resonator element and is formed on the substrate so as to electrically connect the arcuate contact region to the lower portion of the microdisk resonator element.

In embodiments the microdisk resonator element is subdivided into a portion that supports a microdisk resonant mode and a portion that supports a micro ridge resonant mode. The resonator element further includes a taper region that adiabatically converts between said resonant modes.

In other embodiments the laminar region is of substantially less thickness than a resonant wavelength of light such that optical mode confinement by the microdisk resonator element is not substantially modified by the presence of the laminar region. Such embodiments do not necessarily include an adiabatic taper but they offer the advantage of possibly including a heater integrated into the resonator structure.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary but are not restrictive of the invention.

A first exemplary embodiment which we refer to as a top hat resonator is shown in . The top hat resonator includes a microdisk resonator that is adiabatically transformed into a ridge resonator. One feature of this exemplary design is that it can effectuate a significant reduction in the series resistance of the resonator relative to older designs in which an n type modulator contact and a p type contact are both centrally located within the disk. In the current state of the art of microdisk modulators series resistance ultimately limits the electrical bandwidth of the resonator.

As seen in the figure an exemplary top hat resonator is implemented in silicon on an SOI substrate. The resonator structure comprises portion which is formed on substrate oxide layer and conformed as a portion of a conventional microdisk resonator. Exemplary design details of a silicon microdisk resonator may be gained for example from the description of the second exemplary embodiment herein which is directed to a D ring resonator. The resonator structure further comprises portion which is formed on silicon pedestal and although completing the full circular arc of the resonator structure is conformed to function optically as a ridge resonator. It will be seen that portion stands in relief above oxide layer which underlies among other things pedestal layer and that portion stands in relief above pedestal layer .

Edge of the pedestal together with a symmetrically placed edge on the other side of the resonator structure not visible in the drawing is seen as tangential and continuous with the bounding part of microdisk portion and as diverging therefrom. The portions of the structure near the tangent points are transition regions in which the confined and resonant optical mode is adiabatically transformed between the profile characteristic of a microdisk resonator and the profile characteristic of a micro ridge resonator. Specific design parameters for effectuating an adiabatic transition may be found without undue experimentation by exploring the design space using readily available simulation tools. By way of example the angle between edge and its corresponding opposite edge will typically lie in the range 30 90 degrees. The thickness of the pedestal is preferably less than one half the total thickness of the disk.

With further reference to the figure it will be seen that central and peripheral doped silicon contact are respectively formed on a central portion of resonator structure and as a spatially separated arcuate structure on pedestal . Contact exemplarily makes contact with the p doped portion of a vertical pn junction within the resonator structure and is p doped for that purpose. In that event contact makes contact with the n doped portion of the same junction via the pedestal and is n doped for that purpose. It should be noted however that in alternate implementations the respective polarities may be reversed and that a horizontal junction arrangement may be substituted for the vertical junction.

The resonator of is readily used in conjunction with an optical waveguide such as a ridge waveguide to which it is coupled by evanescent coupling. As is well known in the art such a coupled arrangement can be used e.g. for purposes of optical switching modulation or filtering. Although such a coupled waveguide is not shown in the conformation and placement of appropriate such elements will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

A second exemplary embodiment which we refer to as a D ring resonator is shown in top down plan view in . The illustrated embodiment includes mode guiding disk which is exemplarily a silicon disk 250 nm thick and 4.2 m in diameter formed on an SOI substrate. The upper half of disk is doped p type and the lower half is doped n type so that a vertical junction is defined. It should be noted however that alternate embodiments may instead employ a horizontal pn junction.

Optical resonance in disk is typically excited by evanescent coupling to a guided wave in a nearby optical waveguide not shown in the figure. Defined in disk is cutout which those skilled in the art will recognize as a mode pinning device that may be effective for limiting the resonator to single mode operation.

Concentric with disk and partially surrounding it is arcuate n doped silicon spacer which is exemplarily 50 nm thick and 1 m wide. Spacer establishes electrical continuity between the n doped portion of disk and n doped silicon contact which is a further arcuate body concentric with and partially surrounding disk . Spacer is intended to effectuate the electrical contact while exerting minimal influence on the confinement of the resonant electromagnetic field by disk . Some variability in the design of spacer is allowable as the same purposes may be satisfied using e.g. widths greater than 1 m.

The use of spacer is advantageous because it permits the n type contact i.e. contact to be situated peripherally. Although peripheral contacts are known in the context of ring type optical resonators we are unaware of any previous use thereof for disk type resonators. Because this arrangement enables the device to be contacted from the outside bandwidth performance typical of ring designs is achievable even reaching bandwidths as great as 20 GHz or more.

Because contact is substantially optically isolated from disk its height is not critical and may therefore be determined by factors such as ease of fabrication and ease of making electrical contact rather than by optical constraints.

The angular length of spacer and contact may vary over a substantial range. There are scaling effects that relate the amount of arc to the doping density of disk needed to achieve a given shift in the optical resonant wavelength under bias. The relevant design space can of course be explored through numerical modeling using available modeling tools. More generally we note that the full width at half maximum FWHM of the resonant peak is closely determined by the amount of arc in the disk.

Moreover the shift in the resonant wavelength varies with the FWHM in proportion to the cube root of the doping density N 

With further reference to the figure it will be seen that p type contact is defined as a concentric region situated in the interior of disk . The top of contact is at the same level as the top of disk . Contact may be formed as a shallow surface region or it may extend partway or even entirely down to the SOI substrate. It is significant that the conformation of contact can result in less electrical resistance than a comparable ring design because the corresponding contact in a typical ring design is conformed as a lowered pedestal which will typically exhibit higher series resistance.

For ease of reference the drawing of has been reproduced in where some elements also called out in are called out by like reference numerals while other elements are newly called out by new reference numerals. In some embodiments it will be advantageous to include a heater for adjusting the optical properties of the device. In fact a heater is readily integrated into the center portion of disk . This is best seen in where annular p doped region constitutes the relatively resistive region to be used for ohmic heating. Heater region will typically occupy a shallow surface layer but this is not critical and implementations are feasible in which region extends to a substantial depth.

Advantageously the p type modulation contact can also serve as the ground contact for the heater. Accordingly as seen in the figure the circular array of metal e.g. tungsten contacts are provided to make the ground connection for the pn junction and for the heater. Metal e.g. tungsten contact provides the other external connection for the heater. The circular array of metal e.g. tungsten contacts provides the external connection for n type contact .

As will be understood our exemplary implementation has a central p type contact and a peripheral n type contact. It should be further understood that such a choice of polarities is merely illustrative and although it may be typical it is not limiting because interchanging the polarities can also result in an operative device.

It should also be understood that the dimensions provided for our exemplary implementation are merely illustrative and are subject to variation depending on design choices such as material compositions fabrication techniques and operating wavelengths. In particular it should be noted that although our example is implemented in silicon other semiconductor materials can be used in this context including III V materials and II VI materials.

In an exemplary fabrication sequence for the device of as summarized in a 250 nm thick layer of silicon is deposited on 3 m of buried oxide on an SOI substrate. The silicon layer is lithographically patterned and etched to define the features that will become disk and contact . A further lithographic patterning and etching step then defines the feature that will become spacer . The dopants are then implanted to define the electronic characteristics of each of the respective features of the device. Then oxide is deposited and tungsten contacts are formed according to conventional practices.

