---

title: Aggregated control and presentation of media content from multiple sources
abstract: Systems and methods are described for aggregating media content from multiple sources for viewing on a local display or for placeshifting to a remote display. The aggregation system responds to instructions received from a remote device via the digital network to provide the video output incorporating the media content received from any of the media sources to the locally-connected display. The media aggregation system also simultaneously provides a placeshifted video stream to the remote device via the digital network that incorporates media content received from any of the plurality of media sources selected in response to the instructions received from the remote device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628849&OS=09628849&RS=09628849
owner: Sling Media, Inc.
number: 09628849
owner_city: Foster City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 713 049 which was filed on Oct. 12 2012.

The following discussion generally relates to systems and techniques for processing media content such as television programming and movies within a home entertainment system. More particularly the following discussion relates to systems and methods to aggregate the control and presentation of media content received from different sources in a home entertainment system.

Customers continue to demand increasing flexibility and control of their media viewing experiences. Whereas television viewing traditionally involved sitting in front of a television set during a live broadcast of a program being viewed modern television viewers now expect the ability to control the time as well as the location of their media viewing experience. To that end numerous devices such as digital video recorders placeshifting devices and any number of media streaming systems have been developed with widespread consumer adoption and approval. Many television viewers now have home entertainment systems that incorporate many different audio video components such as set top boxes media players audio video receivers digital video recorders and the like. Currently each of these different devices is typically plugged into a different port of a conventional television set in the viewer s home.

As the home entertainment system incorporates more and more features and components however the complexity of the system can create several issues. Simply obtaining a desired program from any one component may involve separately controlling the television an integrated video receiver a program source and or any number of other devices. If the selected content is to be placeshifted to a mobile phone or other remote device controlling the system becomes even more complicated and difficult.

Various attempts at video integration have been attempted but all have met with limited success. So called universal remote controls for example have had difficulty in practice controlling multiple components of a home entertainment system particularly as components evolve away from traditional infrared controls. Other types of integrated video switching devices have been attempted with various levels of success.

It nevertheless remains desirable to improve the aggregation and control of the wide variety of media content that is available from a consumer s home entertainment system. These and other desirable features and characteristics will become apparent from the subsequent detailed description and the appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and this background section.

Many different systems devices and methods are described for aggregating media content from multiple sources for viewing on a local display or for placeshifting to a remote display. In many of these examples the various components of a home entertainment system are plugged into or otherwise coupled to an aggregator device. The aggregator is able to respond to user commands provided via a mobile phone tablet remote control or other remote device to control any of the various media sources or other components and to provide desired content on a television or other local display. The aggregator may also be able to simultaneously provide one or more placeshifted media streams for remote viewing. Various features and enhancements may additionally or alternately provided to any number of practical embodiments as described more fully herein.

In a first example embodiment a media aggregation system simultaneously provides media content received from any of a plurality of media sources to a television or other local display while also providing a separate placeshifted media stream to a remote device. The system suitably comprises a network interface configured to couple to and facilitate communication with a digital network a display interface configured to provide a video output to a locally connected display a plurality of media interfaces each media interface configured to couple the media aggregation system to receive media content from one of the plurality of media sources and a controller. The controller is configured to respond to instructions received from a remote device via the digital network to simultaneously provide a placeshifted video stream to the remote device via the digital network while the system is providing video output incorporating media content from a first one of the plurality of media sources to the locally connected display wherein the video output incorporates the media content received from a first one of the plurality of media sources and the placeshifted video stream incorporates media content received from a second one of the plurality of media sources.

In another example embodiment a method executable by a media aggregation system or other computing device suitably comprises receiving media content from each of a plurality of media sources by the media aggregation system receiving control instructions from a remote device at the media aggregation system via a digital network simultaneously switching media content from a first one of the plurality of media sources to an encoder and media content from a second one of the plurality of media sources to a decoder in response to the control instructions providing decoded media content from the first media source to a display interface for output to a locally connected display and simultaneously transmitting encoded media content from the second media source as a placeshifted media stream to the remote device via the digital network.

Other examples provide remote devices programs executable by remote devices and or methods executable by a remote device to control a remotely located content aggregation system that is coupled to a plurality of content sources each source having an associated remote control. One such method comprises receiving at the remote device a first user input that selects one of the plurality of content sources that are coupled to the remotely located content aggregation system in response to the first user input the remote device generating a user interface for presentation on the display of the remote device wherein the user interface comprises a graphical depiction of the remote control associated with the selected one of the plurality of content sources that are coupled to the remotely located content aggregation system in response to receiving a second user input at the remote device that identifies media content available from one of the plurality of content sources transmitting a control instruction from the remote device to the remotely located content aggregation system via a network wherein the control instruction directs the remotely located content aggregation system to obtain the identified media content from the selected content source receiving a first placeshifted media stream from the remotely located content aggregation system at the remote device wherein the first placeshifted media stream is encoded by the remotely located content aggregation system to include the identified media content and presenting the first placeshifted media stream to the user via the display associated with the remote device. Other methods may include different features additional features or other modifications as desired.

Many other embodiments could provide additional alternate or equivalent features. The examples provided here are described in increasing detail below along with additional examples embodiments and other features.

The following detailed description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.

Various embodiments provide a media aggregator device that accepts video output signals from multiple content sources operating within the customer s home entertainment system and that can be controlled from a phone tablet computer or other network enabled device. The aggregator provides content from any of the various sources to a local display that is attached to the aggregator device and or to one or more other display devices that are accessible via the Internet or another network. The aggregator device is able to control each of the content providing components in response to user commands received from the network enabled device. The aggregator therefore provides a single point of control for all of the components operating within a home entertainment system.

Various additional benefits may also be available. Exemplary aggregator devices could facilitate multiple placeshifted streams for example that could be used to implement a picture in picture PIP or look ahead function or for any other purpose. The media player could be further customized to allow images of the different remote controls typically associated with the various components of the home entertainment system so that the user is presented with a familiar control interface. Additional or alternate features may be found in any number of equivalent embodiments.

Turning now to the drawing figures and with initial reference to an exemplary home entertainment system suitably includes a media aggregator device that receives audio video media content from any number of media sources and that renders content for presentation on a local display and or on a remote device . Aggregator suitably receives commands from a remote device that are processed and relayed as appropriate to control any of the sources and to route content from any of the sources toward either local display and or remote device as desired. In at least some embodiments the aggregator may additionally include a local user input device such as front panels buttons touch screen or the like or a local hand held device that allow a user to control the output of content from the aggregator to the local display . Unlike conventional placeshifting devices that simply shifted content from a single source toward a remote client the aggregator device is able to obtain and process content from any number of different sources as set forth in more detail below.

The exemplary embodiment illustrated in shows five different sources of media content although other embodiments may provide additional or different content sources as desired. Examples of media content sources could include without limitation streaming devices e.g. Apple TV Google TV HULU or NetFlix players and or the like audio video receivers AVRs set top boxes STBs or other television receivers media players e.g. DVD Blu Ray or the like digital video recorders DVRs video game consoles and or other devices as desired. Typically these media source devices are physical components that are physically and electrically connected to the aggregator device in the user s home using cables or the like. Exemplary interfaces for connecting component media sources could include component video composite video S video high definition multimedia interface HDMI and or the like as well as any number of other media interfaces presently known or subsequently developed. Equivalent embodiments may access network enabled media sources via network via a hardwired or wireless local area network LAN or in any other manner.

Each of the various media sources may be accessed and controlled in a manner that is appropriate to the particular component. Some source components may be controlled using their native remote control commands provided by an infrared IR blaster device a radio frequency RF transceiver and or the like associated with media aggregator . Other components may be controlled using consumer electronics control CEC or similar instructions associated with HDMI or similar protocols. Still other components may be controlled using wired or wireless networking protocols such as ETHERNET IEEE 802.3 Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 ZIGBEE IEEE 802.15.4 and or the like. Aggregator is suitably able to provide control instructions to each component and to receive media content from each component using whatever communications capabilities may be available. The aggregator may obtain such control instructions available on each component through an appropriate application programming interface API of the component or may obtain such control instructions from an external source such as a third party server. It is not necessary that all of the media sources communicate in the same manner and aggregator may communicate with different media sources using any number of different techniques and protocols.

Media aggregator is able to receive media content from any of the media sources and to output the content for presentation on display . Display may be a conventional television set or monitor for example that is physically and electrically connected to the media aggregator device using component composite HDMI S Video or any other cabling. Various embodiments may provide security checks to ensure compliance with digital rights management or other licensing requirements or to otherwise ensure that content presented on the display is legal and approved for display by the content owner.

In some implementations a television receiver STB or other media source may provide multiple simultaneous inputs to the aggregator e.g. multiple virtual or physical connections between the source device and the aggregator such that the aggregator simultaneously receives multiple independent streams from the source device. For example a television receiver STB may have multiple outputs e.g. one or more S Video HDMI composite or component video or other outputs that can each provide an output corresponding to one of the multiple tuners of the STB and each of these separate outputs may be separately controlled by the aggregator . This feature may have several benefits in various embodiments. First it could allow multiple programs from a single receiver or other source to be processed at aggregator . Additionally or alternatively it could allow the aggregator to receive a program or signal via one connection that might not be available via another connection. If HDMI encoding or other access restrictions prohibited output of a program on a particular output of the receiver for example the same program might nevertheless be available on a different output port e.g. an S Video port or other non HDMI port . The aggregator may therefore in various embodiments request programs on different connections or ports to the same content source if a first request on a first port is not successful.

Media aggregator may also provide audio outputs to display to AVR and or the like. Various embodiments may be able to support multiple output displays as desired through the use of multiple display interfaces as described more fully below.

In at least one embodiment aggregator receives control instructions from a remote network enabled device that communicates with the aggregator via network . In various embodiments the remote device is a mobile telephone tablet personal computer or other general purpose computing device that executes software to implement network enabled remote control functions. To that end remote device may execute a remote control application that accepts user inputs via a touchscreen keyboard mouse and or other conventional input device and that translates those inputs into commands that can be transmitted to aggregator for execution.

Although this document occasionally refers to the network enabled device as remotely located in practice device may be in the same room as aggregator or otherwise in close physical proximity at least at certain times. The device is nevertheless remote in the sense that it communicates with aggregator via network instead of as a conventional remote control. To provide just one example a customer may be able to use his or her mobile phone as a controller so that touch inputs gestures and the like can be applied on the mobile phone. These inputs can be relayed to the aggregator via network thereby allowing compatibility with hardware that is already in the customer s possession and that is already familiar to the customer. To that end an iOS Android or other application for example could allow conventional smartphones to act as network enabled remote controls for any number of media sources . Such applications translate user inputs to commands that can be transmitted via network to aggregator device which in turn acts as an intermediary by relaying the commands to the correct devices using RF IR CEC TCP IP or other control mechanisms that may be available.

In operation then the customer configures media aggregator device no by plugging in the various media source components as appropriate. The device may use any sort of plug and play techniques e.g. UPnP HDMI CEC signaling or the like to automatically recognize media source components in some embodiments and or the customer may manually configure the types of components that are connected as desired. In at least one embodiment the customer may configure one or more remote devices with control software and or media player software so that the device is able to interact with the aggregator no via network . As described above in at least one embodiment the media aggregator may communicate one with or more components through an API or other protocol to determine how to communicate control commands to the component . In another embodiment the media aggregator may identify a component and automatically query an external server to determine and or obtain a configuration that enables the media aggregator no to communicate with the component . In some embodiments this configuration may be a set of codes that can be provided by the media aggregator no to produce desired actions by the component as desired.

As the customer provides instructions to remote device the control module suitably provides commands to aggregator via network . Such commands may be provided using conventional TCP IP or similar protocols that are already known to the remote device other embodiments may use other protocols including any sort of proprietary protocols as desired.

Aggregator suitably processes the received commands to control one or more of the media sources and thereby access and output desired content output on display and or media player . Content presented on local display may be provided using conventional video signaling content placeshifted to remote device may be encoded and otherwise processed using any number of media streaming techniques and constructs. Examples of general placeshifting techniques are set forth in United States Patent Publication No. 2006 0095471 and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 263 503 and exemplary techniques for establishing placeshifting sessions are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 171 148 although the features described herein could be equivalently applied with any number of other techniques and structures in addition to those described in these particular references.

The use of a network controlled aggregator allows a number of useful features. In addition to the flexibility and convenience of controlling multiple A V components from a single device that is familiar to the user various embodiments of aggregator allow multiple media functions to occur simultaneously. Although conventional placeshifting devices typically only allowed one output to either a display or to a network session for example an aggregator as shown in could provide an output to a local display that differed from a placeshifted media stream that is transmitted to a remote device . A first user watching display could view content stored on a USB drive for example while a second user simultaneously viewed a placeshifted media stream from a STB or similar television receiver DVR or the like. Alternatively media content from a network service could be stored on a storage device while the user watched television programming on display and or remote device . While some implementations may limit tasks that can simultaneously occur for licensing or other reasons other embodiments may allow any number of input streams from source devices to be presented on any number of local displays and or placeshifted to any number of remote displays . Even further some implementations could combine inputs from multiple sources to create a hybrid placeshifting stream and or multiple streams could be sent to a single remote device to thereby allow the remote media player module to combine the various streams as desired. Any number of alternate or additional features could be provided in a wide range of equivalent embodiments.

Storage interface includes any appropriate hardware software firmware control logic or the like to facilitate communications with an external media storage device . In various embodiments storage interface is a universal serial bus USB or the like that facilitates physical and electrical communication with a memory card disk drive mobile phone or other device that is physically coupled to the aggregator using an appropriate cable.

Network interface includes any appropriate hardware software firmware control logic and or the like to facilitate communications with a local area or other network such as network . In various embodiments network interface is a conventional Ethernet IEEE 802.3 interface that allows a physical connection to a local area network operating within the customer s home. Equivalent embodiments may implement network interface using a wireless interface such as a Wifi IEEE 802.11 interface or the like.

Media interfaces include any appropriate hardware software firmware control logic and or the like to receive media content from any number of media sources . Different embodiments may include any number of interfaces as well as interfaces of varying types to support a wide range of media sources . An exemplary embodiment may include one or more component video composite audio video s video HDMI or other interfaces or any combinations of interfaces as desired.

Display interface similarly provides appropriate hardware software firmware control logic and or the like to facilitate video output to display . Display interface may provide output using component composite s video HDMI and or any other formats as desired.

Control circuitry suitably includes any sort of microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor or other processing hardware capable of controlling each of the interfaces in response to received instructions to thereby produce suitable outputs and as desired. Various processing chips available from VIXS Systems NXP Semiconductor N.V. Broadcom Corporation Conexant Corporation and or others for example could be used to provide switching encoding decoding and or the like. In many embodiments additional chips or other circuitry may be provided to support additional encoding decoding switching and or other functions as desired.

Circuitry as shown in performs appropriate switching functions to route video signals as needed from the various input interfaces . Control circuitry as illustrated in includes a switch fabric made up of three switching modules these switches may be implemented using physical connections from each interface to separate video switching circuitry as appropriate. Alternate embodiments however may implement the switching function using virtual switching implemented within a system on chip SoC or similar integrated circuitry. The various connecting lines shown in then should be regarded as logical connections that are not necessarily physically present in an actual device. Alternate embodiments could physically couple the input interfaces to processing circuitry using any sort of bus direct connection indirect connection and or the like.

Further different embodiments could include any number of switching paths to support any number of different outputs and . The embodiment shown in for example has three switching modules and to facilitate two placeshifting outputs A B and a single display output . Other implementations could provide additional or fewer outputs as desired.

Circuitry includes any number of encoding modules and or decoding modules as desired. In practice encoding and or decoding functions may be provided by a SoC or similar integrated chip or by separate components as desired. Encoding may involve converting a video signal such as analog to digital conversion or transcoding received from an interface to a video streaming format that can be placeshifted to a remote device as described above. Placeshift encoding may be performed in accordance with any proprietary or other media format to produce any number of placeshifted media streams A B.

Various embodiments may also support a decoder function as desired. Decoding may be used for example to decode files stored on a storage device or received directly from a service on network . Decoding may also be performed on video received from other sources as desired. shows decoded video as being provided to the display interface for presentation on the local display . Further embodiments may allow decoded video signals to be subsequently encoded for placeshifting as desired.

Control circuitry also includes a control module that receives control signals via network interface and that processes the signals to direct the operation of media sources and to generate appropriate output signals as desired. Control module communicates with the various interfaces and with the command module via a suitable control bus and or other signal path s as desired. Control module may also process on screen displays OSD generated within output streams and and may perform other tasks as well.

In operation control module suitably receives commands from the remote device via network interface . The control module selects the appropriate source device to obtain desired content for the viewer and controls the selected device as appropriate using whatever control mechanisms are available. Various component sources may be controlled using command module HDMI CEC signals from interface network packets transmitted via network interface and or the like. The video signals received on the appropriate interface are then encoded and or decoded as needed so that the content can be provided for placeshifting and or for presentation on local display . In this embodiment the user provides instructions

In the exemplary embodiment shown in multiple placeshifted streams A B are supported. These two streams could be combined at the encoder so that imagery from two different sources is provided within a single stream to a remote device . This could allow for example a picture in picture feature to be implemented on a remote device even though only one placeshifted output is available. Other embodiments could provide two separate placeshifting streams A and B thereby allowing separate streams to be provided to multiple devices or for a single device to receive multiple streams A B. In this latter case the multiple streams could then be processed at the remote device as desired to support PIP functions multi screen views and or the like as described more fully below.

As noted above user instructions are typically provided to a mobile phone tablet personal computer or other remote device using conventional touchscreen mouse keyboard or other inputs. Control software executing on the remote device suitably translates the received inputs into instructions that are routable on network and that can be understood by aggregator . Commands could include without restriction any instructions to select or control any of the different media devices that are in communication with the aggregator as well as any instructions to control local display aggregator device itself or any other device. In various embodiments the control software provides a graphical image of an actual physical remote control that is typically associated with the controlled device. As the user activates buttons sliders or other features on the graphical remote control instructions corresponding to the instructions that would ordinarily be provided by an IR RF or other remote are generated by the client software and provided to the aggregator via network . As described below the particular imagery displayed to the user may be changed during operation to reflect the particular component being controlled.

Instructions received from the remote device may adjust either the placeshifted media stream the output to the local display and or both streams as desired function . In various embodiments the control software provides different modes of operation for controlling local and placeshifted streams so the context of the instruction may be apparent when the instruction is received and the device is operating in a known mode. Other embodiments may embed identification data within the command itself that allows the command to be identified as a placeshifting command or a command intended for the local display stream .

If the instruction is intended to change the media source that provides the media stream functions respectively then the control module of aggregator suitably selects and obtains the appropriate media content from the selected device functions . As noted above control module provides appropriate control signals to the interfaces and or to the command module to direct the selected device to provide requested content to the aggregator . In various embodiments changing the input source may change the imagery presented in the remote control module of remote device function . If the user instructs that the source be switched from a television receiver to a streaming device for example an image of the television receiver remote may be changed to an image of the remote typically associated with the streaming device so that the user can continue to provide relevant inputs to the device under control. Function may be implemented entirely within remote device without further input from aggregator in some embodiments. That is the remote device may itself determine that the imagery should change from the current control context and the command issued by the user. If a user selects a change to obtain content from a media player instead of a DVR for example the remote could note this change and responsively change the presented imagery from an interface associated with the DVR to an interface associated with the media player without further instruction from the aggregator . Additional detail about a multi image remote feature is provided below with respect to

The aggregator controls the selected video source as needed to obtain desired content or to perform any other tasks functions . Instructions are provided from the aggregator to the controlled device using RF IR TCP IP HDMI CEC or other control mechanisms as appropriate for the particular device being controlled.

In some embodiments macro commands functions may be provided. Macros could allow a single user instruction received at remote device to generate multiple commands issued to one or more devices under control by aggregator . As an example remote control module could allow an option to Show Recorded Programs that would select the DVR or STB as a media source and then issue appropriate commands to the selected source to generate a video screen that shows the recorded programming. Similar macros could be formulated that involve issuing commands to multiple devices. A play movie command issued for the local display stream for example might bring up a listing of movies available on one or more media sources while also configuring the AVR to enter a surround sound or other enhanced audio mode. Such commands may be stored as a script or other macro at the aggregator as desired for subsequent retrieval and execution. Macros may be recorded by keeping a record of a series of user actions or the necessary actions to execute certain functions could be obtained from a remote server from software or firmware stored at the aggregator and or other source. The various commands sent to the different devices could be issued in series or parallel as appropriate using any of the different command channels that are available to the aggregator .

Generally speaking the various functions and features of process may be automatically executed by any sort of hardware software and or firmware logic that is stored and or executed on any platform. Some or all of process functions may be carried out for example by programmed logic executing within aggregator device and or playback device in as appropriate. In one embodiment control module executes software logic that performs each of the various functions associated with aggregator . Such logic may be stored in memory or in any other non transitory storage available to control module as desired. Media player device may similarly have a processor to execute software instructions that carry out the various functions shown to be associated with device . Such instructions may be stored in a memory or other non transitory storage medium available to the media player as desired. The particular logic and hardware that implements any of the various functions shown in may vary from context to context implementation to implementation and embodiment to embodiment in accordance with the various features scenarios and structures set forth herein. The particular means used to implement each of the various functions shown in then could be any sort of hardware processing structures that are capable of executing conventional software logic in any format. Such processing hardware may include control module or other components of aggregator as well as any other processors or other components associated with playback devices as appropriate.

The exemplary interfaces shown in allow the user to switch between the different remote images by selecting from a menu bar that includes options for each of the available remote images. As the user wishes to control different components of the home entertainment system then he or she simply indicates which component is to be controlled from list and the remote control module appropriately obtains the image associated with the selected component. Images of the relevant remotes are obtained and stored at the remote device in any manner. For example the various available remote images may be selected from a database of available images. The database may be accessed via network for example and images and associated command information may be downloaded to control device as needed. Other embodiments may provide remote control images and associated data for any number of different components as part of control application or the like.

The Now Playing button in may be supplemented or substituted with a Last Playing button or the like that allows a user to access content they were previously watching. As the user switches content or content sources the aggregator may be configured to track one or more previously viewed content instances such as source channel timestamp and the like allowing the user to quickly jump back to previously viewed content. For example a user may be watching a movie stored on storage medium and may utilize menu bar and to switch to the input of aggregator to a satellite receiver. The user may further use image to switch to a channel featuring a football game. The aggregator may track the previous input and content location such that pressing a Last Played Button enables a macro that switches the input back to the storage medium and resumes playing of the movie at the timestamp when the user switched to the football game. To implement a Last Playing feature the aggregator may simply maintain the stored information about the current video stream and or e.g. the source program name channel tuned etc. after the user switches to a different program or source thereby allowing rapid restoration to the previously stored status. Note that such settings may include time stamp or similar data thereby allowing quick reversion to the same point in a program where viewing was previously left off as desired.

The exemplary interfaces shown in may be supplemented or modified in any manner. Various embodiments could provide features for accessing electronic program guides web sites and or any other features provided by aggregator or other services as desired.

The discussion above addresses the ability to simultaneously process video inputs from multiple sources to produce multiple output streams that can be placeshifted to a remote device and or output for presentation on a locally connected display . Various embodiments may further enhance the integration of media content from multiple sources by providing multiple placeshifting streams e.g. streams A B in to a common remote device . The multiple streams could facilitate for example a picture in picture PIP feature a split screen viewing experience or any other features as desired.

One technique for combining video imagery from multiple sources was discussed above with reference to . In that example media content obtained from two different sources can be blended at the aggregator prior to encoding of a single placeshifted media stream that is routed on network to the remote device .

In another example two separate streams A and B can be separately received encoded and transmitted to the remote device. This could facilitate different qualities of encoding e.g. a higher resolution bit rate and or frame rate for a primary stream and a lower quality for a secondary stream or enhanced control of either stream independent of the other stream. The two placeshifted streams A B are then combined as desired at the media player application executing on the remote device .

Secondary streams B may also be useful to facilitate rapid channel switching or other fast start applications. In such cases it may be desirable to encode the secondary stream B at a lower quality than stream A to preserve network bandwidth as desired. Multiple streams could be obtained at aggregator from one or more source devices. As noted previously some embodiments might obtain multiple simultaneous input streams from the same source device . These streams could be placeshifted to one or more remote devices either as separate streams or as a blended stream provided from an encode or the like. Other benefits and features may be available in any number of other embodiments.

It is not necessary that both placeshifted streams A B produced by an aggregator device be provided to the same remote device nor is it required that both streams received by the remote device be provided from the same aggregator . In various embodiments one of the streams A or B displayed on remote device is received from a separate source e.g. a video streaming server on network or the like. Still other embodiments could obtain a media stream via a tuner or other receiver onboard the remote device or from any other source such as a video on demand service file or media server and or other remote source on network .

In at least one embodiment the aggregator may be configured to receive content from the remote device and to store the content to the storage media or other storage. Aggregator could additionally or alternately output the content to the display and or placeshift the content to another remote device as desired. In one example a remote device provides videos or photos e.g. photos or videos taken with a mobile phone that are downloaded by the media aggregator and made available for viewing through the media aggregator on any other connected device. In another embodiment the media aggregator receives content from the remote device and outputs the content to the display device for immediate viewing thereby providing placeshifting of the content available on the remote device . The content output by the media aggregator to the display in this example may be supplemented with other content from any component with on screen displays generated by the media aggregator and or by user input through the remote device or other input devices associated with the media aggregator . The media aggregator may be also configured to placeshift content received from a remote device to another remote device in a similar manner with the placeshifted content remaining substantially unmodified and or being supplemented with other content as desired.

In various embodiments these features allow the media aggregator to act as a personal cloud or similar remote storage facility that synchs stored content from any number of remote devices and that makes such content available to other devices at a later time. For example the media aggregator may be configured to automatically sync with a connected remote device when the remote device is present on the same local area network LAN and download selected types of content e.g. audio video or image content or may sync content as requested by a user. This downloading would place all of the user s content in one convenient place such that a video captured on a mobile phone can subsequently be seamlessly viewed on the user s tablet computer or family member s phone. Other examples could obtain content store content and or distribute content in any other manner.

The remote device similarly provides additional commands function that result in the selection and control of a second source source in this example although others could be equivalently used to obtain the second placeshifting stream. The controlled second source suitably provides the media content function to the aggregator which encodes the received content into a format that can be placeshifted as secondary stream B function . The secondary stream B is then transmitted to the remote device via network function .

The two streams A and B may be combined and presented to the user in any manner function . As described above the secondary stream B may be used to provide a PIP feature a side by side viewing experience and or the like. While the secondary stream is described herein as providing motion video equivalent embodiments could simply provide still images e.g. an image extracted from a nearby I frame to reduce encoding and transmission overhead. Other embodiments may be supplemented or modified in any manner.

The various systems devices and processes described above may provide any number of advantages and benefits. To provide just one example some implementations may be able to use the media aggregator as an IP to IR converter wherein the customer s mobile phone tablet web browser or other familiar device becomes a very effective remote control for the customer s entire home entertainment system. The aggregator is able to flexibly communicate with any number of different devices using RF IR HDMI CEC TCP IP or other control techniques to produce desired output streams on one or more local or remote displays. Further different image skins can very accurately represent the different remote controls generally associated with the variety of devices making up the customer s home entertainment system. This provides an interface that allows familiarity both in terms of the features available and in terms of the hardware used by the customer without the supplier having to supply additional remotes or other control hardware at all. Moreover multiple streams from different sources can be simultaneously obtained processed and routed to any number of different displays thereby greatly improving the functionality and flexibility of the user experience.

The general systems structures and techniques described above may be inter combined enhanced modified and or otherwise implemented to provide any number of different features. To that end the term exemplary is used herein to represent one example instance or illustration that may have any number of alternates. Any implementation described herein as exemplary should not necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. While several exemplary embodiments have been presented in the foregoing detailed description it should be appreciated that a vast number of alternate but equivalent variations exist and the examples presented herein are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. To the contrary various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of the various features described herein without departing from the scope of the claims and their legal equivalents.

