---

title: Methods for remote assistance of disabled persons
abstract: A mobile terminal is used to assist individuals with disabilities. A mobile terminal such as a “smartphone” or other commercially available wireless handheld device may be loaded with software. The software may be configured to: (i) store criteria for managing communications between a disabled user of the mobile terminal and a remote caregiver, (ii) determine whether a criterion is satisfied, and if so (iii) initiate a communication from the mobile terminal to the remote caregiver, and (iv) receive a response from the remote caregiver. Thus, through this software, the mobile terminal may dynamically facilitate communications with specific remote caregivers based on specific situations that may confront disabled individuals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08669864&OS=08669864&RS=08669864
owner: HandHold Adaptive, LLC
number: 08669864
owner_city: Shelton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130513
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 703 156 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 441 356. The 156 application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 919 filed Feb. 16 2009. The contents of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present application is directed to providing devices systems and methods for assisting those with disabilities.

With a growing population the number of developmentally disabled children grows. Additionally the rates at which children have been diagnosed as developmentally disabled and particularly diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders ASD have steadily increased. Individuals with developmental disabilities often have several challenges in common including but not limited to speech and language impairments cognitive deficits social problems behavioral problems memory problems attention deficits and sensory processing dysfunction. The developmentally disabled population extends beyond those with ASD to include those with Down syndrome cerebral palsy Fragile X syndrome ADD ADHD cognitive challenges and other disabilities. Moreover various late onset disorders and conditions often lead to similar challenges e.g. Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease dementia stroke and brain injury .

The manifestations of such disabilities can vary greatly from individual to individual particularly in those with ASD a disorder known for its spectrum of neurological impairments . As time goes by parents family members friends and therapists who spend time with such disabled persons develop their own understanding of each disabled individual s unique set of challenges and faculties. Each caregiver may build his or her own set of tactics for managing challenges that confront the disabled individual whether health issues emotional swings or everyday adjustments to new environments and situations. As these circumstances arise in day to day life the disabled person may greatly benefit from the assistance of specific caregivers that have grown to know and understand the disabled person.

However as many such disabled individuals enjoy some level of independence situations may arise during which a caregiver s help may be beneficial though the caregiver may not be physically present. A need therefore exists to provide disabled persons with dynamic circumstantially appropriate targeted assistance from specific caregivers at specific times.

Described herein are methods for assisting individuals with disabilities. In some embodiments a mobile terminal e.g. a smartphone or other commercially available wireless handheld device described herein may be loaded with software of the present disclosure. The software may be configured to i store criteria for managing communications between a user of the mobile terminal e.g. a disabled person and a remote caregiver ii determine whether a criterion is satisfied and if so iii initiate a communication from the mobile terminal to the remote caregiver and iv receive a response from the remote caregiver. Thus through software of the present disclosure the mobile terminal may dynamically facilitate communications with specific remote caregivers based on specific situations that may confront disabled individuals. The mobile terminal may be held by the disabled individual or a physically present caregiver. The software detects circumstances in which assistance instructions guidance assurance or information provided by a remote caregiver may be useful and may in turn automatically initiate communication with a specific remote caregiver.

For example using i the mobile terminal s microphone ii speech recognition technology and iii caregiver programmed rules stored in memory the software of the present disclosure may detect that a disabled child is struggling to communicate with another person specifically the child is repeatedly producing the utterance DEE O which to most audiences would seem meaningless though to the child s parent this utterance is understood as an expression of desire to be all done . Upon detection of the unknown and or incomprehensible utterance a programmed rule instructs the software to contact the parent e.g. a text message is sent to the parent s mobile phone informing the parent of the situation. The parent may then through a line of communication facilitated by the mobile terminal e.g. a phone call decipher the child s utterance and communicate with the child s companions such that the companions or nearby persons may understand the child s the desire to stop the current activity.

In another example based on data stored or measured by the mobile terminal i.e. data concerning a disabled person s environment biology or behavior including usage of the mobile terminal and a programmed rule for reacting to such data the software may determine that there is a high probability of a medical emergency in association with a disabled child using the mobile terminal. For example a peripheral heart rate monitor communicating wirelessly with the mobile terminal detects a sudden increase in beats per minute while simultaneously a microphone detects crying and a schedule stored within the software indicates the child is a few minutes past a scheduled dose of medication. Based on such criteria software of the present disclosure may trigger a call to a 24 hour monitoring center allowing a representative to remotely access the child s medical history and accordingly provide care instructions via the mobile terminal.

An overview of some of the hardware elements is provided before addressing some of the methods and potential screen configurations associated with embodiments of the present disclosure. A mobile terminal is illustrated in . An exemplary suitable mobile terminal may be the APPLE IPHONE or IPOD and may include a user interface that includes a speaker a microphone a touch screen display and a command entry button . One or more icons may be displayed on the touch screen display . The user may enter commands by touching an icon on the touch screen display or by using the command entry button as is well understood. One such icon may launch software that effectuates embodiments of the present disclosure. While the IPHONE is particularly contemplated the disclosure is not so limited and any readily portable handheld computing device may be appropriate including personal digital assistants cellular telephones WINDOWS MOBILE enabled devices or the like. Further examples of such mobile terminals include but are not limited to the BLACKBERRY line of wireless devices manufactured by Research in Motion of Waterloo Ontario Calif. the T MOBILE G1 or other mobile terminals compatible with the ANDROID operating system as developed by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. the PRADA or other mobile terminals manufactured by LG ELECTRONICS MOBILECOMM U.S.A INC. of San Diego Calif. the INSTINCT or other mobile terminals manufactured by SAMSUNG TELECOMMUNICATIONS AMERICA LLC the XPERIA X1 or other mobile terminals manufactured by SONY ERICSSON MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS AB of Sweden the N96 or other mobile terminals manufactured by NOKIA GROUP of Finland and the PRE or other mobile terminals manufactured by PALM INC. of Sunnyvale Calif. In other embodiments a mobile terminal may comprise a portable personal computer with a sufficiently large touch sensitive screen i.e. a tablet or tablet computer such as the IPAD by APPLE .

A block diagram of the mobile terminal is illustrated in . The mobile terminal includes the elements already illustrated and further includes within the user interface a camera and the aforementioned microphone . The user interface is operatively coupled to a central processor CPU . The CPU is also operatively coupled to memory with software stored therein an accelerometer transceiver circuitry which in turn is coupled to an antenna one or more wired ports a battery and any other miscellaneous peripherals as is common in the mobile terminal art e.g. an internal clock a vibration unit a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a thermometer a light sensor a proximity sensor an altimeter pressure sensor or the like . Any such miscellaneous peripherals may alternately or additionally be embodied as separate peripheral devices in communication with mobile terminal rather than as a component thereof . The CPU as operated under the instructions of the software is a control system as that term is defined in the Rules of Interpretation General Definitions set forth below. It should be understood that the hardware configuration depicted by is illustrative and that mobile terminal may comprise other types of hardware either as components of the terminal itself or as peripheral devices in communication with the mobile terminal. Such separate peripheral devices are discussed further below with respect to .

Peripheral eyeglasses may communicate with the mobile terminal and may comprise an optical camera a RFID transponder not shown and or an infrared transmitter not shown . Eyeglasses may be used to provide information related to i the environment surrounding an individual wearing the eyeglasses e.g. still images or video are taken from outward facing optical camera and transmitted to mobile terminal through eyeglasses ii pupil dilation of the individual wearing the glasses e.g. optical camera is oriented inward to directly monitor the user s eyes or iii the direction of the individual s gaze with respect to the mobile terminal e.g. the orientation of eyeglasses relative to mobile terminal is determined using RFID and thus the orientation of the individual s gaze relative to mobile terminal may be inferred . As an example of eye tracking technology used in conjunction with a mobile terminal the 3D Eyetracking UI as developed by TAT THE ASTONISHING TRIBE AB of Sweden for the T MOBILE G1 mobile terminal alters the user interface presented by the mobile terminal s display screen based on the orientation of the device to the user s eyes.

Peripheral skin patch may comprise i a sensor enabling the measurement of biological properties and ii a transmitter enabling wireless communication with mobile terminal . Biological properties measured by skin patch may include temperature blood glucose the GUARDIAN REAL Time Continuous Glucose Monitoring System as produced by MEDTRONIC MINIMED INC. of Northridge Calif. comprises a sensor embedded within a skin patch that monitors blood sugar levels and a transmitter to send data wirelessly to a receiver via BLUETOOTH blood pressure Galvanic Skin Response GSR or electrodermal skin response heart rate and cardiac electrical activity e.g. a wireless ECG patch such as the one developed by the IMEC research center in Belgium . Thus a user of mobile terminal may also wear skin patch such that biological measurements may be taken in a continuous periodic or otherwise specified manner.

Wristwatch may measure and transmit biological data in a manner similar to that of skin patch . Thus a user of mobile terminal who enjoys wearing a watch may at the same time provide a variety of biological data used by the software of the present disclosure. A variety of commercially available digital wristwatches comprise sensors for measuring such data e.g. the IRONMAN Heart Rate Monitor Watch by TIMEX . In an alternate embodiment wristwatch may instead take the form of a basic wristband or arm band i.e. comprising a sensor and transmitter but no clock or stopwatch functionality .

Ring may also measure and transmit biological data in a manner similar to that of skin patch . The ring and its components e.g. sensors electronics may be fashioned from a variety of metals plastics composites and or semiconductors. In one embodiment a commercially available ring such as the MYBEAT Heart Rate Ring by LIFESPAN FITNESS may be adapted for use with software of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a pedometer not shown may transmit data to the mobile terminal . For example the Nike iPod Sport Sport Kit may be employed to track rate of movement e.g. so that a pace above or below a certain threshold may be considered alone or in combination with other data points to be indicative of a potential situation for the user for example a pace over a certain threshold may indicate that the user is fleeing a dangerous or frightful situation .

Lapel microphone may be used to receive audio data and re transmit it to the mobile terminal . Thus a user of mobile terminal may act and speak naturally with the user s speech transmitted automatically to mobile terminal . In one embodiment not shown a microphone and speaker may both exist as part of a wireless headset worn by a user of mobile terminal e.g. affixed via an ergonomic piece of plastic so as to rest around a user s ear . Wireless microphones and headsets are widely available in the commercial marketplace and well known in the mobile terminal art.

In one embodiment not shown a biosensor may be permanently affixed to or implanted beneath the user s skin. For example a subcutaneous electrochemical sensor may be used to continuously measure and report on blood or interstitial fluid glucose level. An example of a device employing such a semi permanent sensor is the FREESTYLE NAVIGATOR Continuous Glucose Monitoring System by ABBOTT LABORATORIES of Abbott Park Ill.

Worth discussing at this point is the manner in which mobile terminal may be carried or held. In various embodiments a mobile terminal may be carried or held by a disabled individual and or a physically present caregiver. At times mobile terminal may be carried by hand but this may not always be desirable convenient or possible. While the above described peripheral devices may allow for the placement of mobile terminal inside of a pocket or a purse some embodiments e.g. those requiring substantially continuous use of components integrated within mobile terminal itself may benefit from the placement of mobile terminal outside of a pocket or a purse. In one embodiment as depicted in a lanyard may be attached to mobile terminal or attached to an after market case designed to protect the mobile terminal from wear and tear such that mobile terminal may hang from the neck of an individual rather than be held by hand within a pocket or within in a purse. Other cases not shown that fasten mobile terminal to the body or clothing may be used including arm bands wrist bands belt clips and the like. Still further cases also not shown may affix mobile terminal to wheelchair arms head pointers or other physical devices used to afford the disabled with mobility or the ability to communicate.

In some embodiments a user of the mobile terminal may be reminded or encouraged to appropriately position the mobile terminal or any associated peripheral devices on or around his or her person. For example in some embodiments placement of the mobile terminal around the neck of a disabled user through the use of lanyard may be desirable. Thus if the mobile terminal s integrated light sensor detects lack of light for a prolonged period of time during a specified coverage period e.g. suggesting that the device may be in the user s pocket or purse a vibration unit speaker or other output device may be actuated to alert the user and encourage him or her to appropriately position the mobile terminal e.g. the mobile terminal vibrates and the speaker outputs a ringtone or other alarm . An accelerometer and or light sensor may then detect that the device has been picked up at which point instructions for effectively positioning the device may be output e.g. the display screen outputs a graphical indication of the device hung around a neck while speaker outputs an audio instruction to Hang around your neck please . Placement of the mobile terminal or associated peripheral devices in other locations may be encouraged in a similar manner.

It should be noted that in some embodiments encouragement may not be necessary to ensure that the disabled individual carries mobile terminal . For example where mobile terminal is configured to provide voice output functionality to assist the disabled user in communicating the disabled user indeed may depend on mobile terminal and may thus naturally carry the device on his or her person in a manner that facilitates the embodiments of the present disclosure.

Against this backdrop of hardware an overview of an exemplary method is presented starting with reference to as a flow diagram interspersed with additional Figures for supporting explanatory and exemplary screen shots. Initially a user acquires a mobile terminal block . This acquisition may be a gift a purchase a lease borrowing or otherwise. For example the disabled individual may purchase the mobile terminal and loan it to the caregiver for the purposes of carrying out embodiments of the present disclosure. Alternatively the caregiver may purchase the mobile terminal for use by and or with the disabled individual. The caregiver may load the software embodying the present disclosure onto the mobile terminal block . If the mobile terminal has a disk drive or other data storage device or functionality e.g. flash memory the software may be loaded from a disk or other source. Otherwise the software may be loaded onto a computer e.g. via disk transfer or download and transferred to the mobile terminal through the docking station or wirelessly. As still another alternative the mobile terminal may download the software through the PLMN or other technique as desired. The software could be preloaded on the mobile terminal such that when the lease or purchase is made the software is immediately accessible. The software itself may be free paid or subsidized in whole or part by a third party such as a school district or other governmental agency an insurance company or a private foundation . Note that while it is contemplated that the caregiver performs these and other steps it is also possible that the disabled individual performs these and the other steps.

Toward the ultimate goal of establishing criteria for managing communications between the mobile terminal and one or more remote caregivers the caregiver may then configure and store elements of the software so as to customize the software on behalf of a disabled individual block .

An exemplary process of configuring and storing the criteria for managing communications between the mobile terminal and the remote caregiver is set forth with reference to the flow chart of . In one scenario the caregiver may use the mobile terminal to configure the software such as by selecting a Settings icon from a group of icons displayed by the mobile terminal or by selecting a Settings option within the software of the present disclosure block . Alternately computer may be used to configure software settings which may then be transmitted to a mobile terminal using methodologies described above. In either case a screen such as that illustrated in or one with comparable functionality may be presented allowing the user to begin customizing the software program. As shown the caregiver may select from options including Create a New Profile block Edit an Existing Profile block Load a Profile block and General Settings .

Continuing the example and assuming the caregiver selects the Load a Profile option a caregiver may select a profile from a list of one or more saved profiles if available as shown by the example screen shot of or from a screen having comparable functionality. Profiles may include those already customized and saved by caregivers for use with particular disabled persons block or template profiles created as a starting point for serving those with particular disabilities e.g. settings for someone with early stage Alzheimer s settings for a high school student with Down syndrome etc. block . Selection of a template may provide an additional menu asking the user if they want to edit the template block view the template block or load the template block . If the user selects editing the template the user may be routed to a screen as if they had selected an option such as the Edit an Existing Profile block choice illustrated by . If the user views the template block the user may then back out to the select template block using a back command or the user may edit the template block . If the user loads the template at block the user may concurrently view the template after loading and may also edit the template block through use of the appropriate commands.

If the user selects a saved profile block the profile is loaded block and the control system begins to monitor for occurrence of criteria block as explained in greater detail below. At this point the process returns to block of .

Continuing the example of and instead assuming the caregiver selects the Create a New Profile option block a screen such as that illustrated by or one with comparable functionality may be presented. This screen allows the caregiver to input and save various types of configuration data in association with a profile though some software configurations may be pre programmed or set to default values before the caregiver begins this step. Multiple profiles may be created for one or more disabled individuals e.g. separate profile names of Jimmy s Remote Help and Sally s Remote Help allowing for use of the mobile terminal by different individuals at different times if so desired. The caregiver may utilize a keyboard feature either hard wired keys or a virtual keyboard as with the IPHONE to enter such a profile name block . For each profile the caregiver may also i add a remote caregiver block e.g. as shown by the caregiver enters a name title phone number email address or other contact information block such as a username for SKYPE or another VoIP provider a username for an instant messaging service etc. ii set a default remote caregiver block e.g. such that if a specific remote caregiver is not listed with respect to a particular automated help rule as described below the default caregiver may be contacted iii set a default coverage period block e.g. such that if a specific time and date are not listed with respect to an automated help rule as described below default time and date settings may apply to all rules and iv create or edit automated help rules block i.e. instructions to automatically initiate communication between the mobile terminal and a remote caregiver based on the satisfaction of specified criteria .

If the user selects the Automated Help Rules option illustrated by the user may be brought to a screen similar in appearance or function to that of . An assortment of programmed rules are shown including Low blood sugar e.g. created by a caregiver so as to send an alert when a disabled user s blood glucose level falls beneath a threshold Rule 1 Nov. 15 2010 4 57 pm e.g. a rule set by a caregiver but not expressly labeled and so automatically given a label based on the time and date at which it was created and Echolalia e.g. created by a caregiver so as to automatically open a line of communications with a child with autism who is exhibiting echolalic speech patterns as may be detected by voice recognition software picking up on repetitive speech . The rules shown are examples of those that may be created by caregivers. It is possible that the screen of may instead show i no rules i.e. a caregiver has yet to create any ii categories of rules i.e. such that users may organize rules by type or iii template rules e.g. pre packed rules bundled as part of the software . Reference is made to which sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for creating a new rule. To continue the example it is assumed that the user selects the option shown at the top right of the screen so as to create a new rule block .

Once the user selects Create a second example screen for configuring an automated help rule may be presented an example of which is shown by . Using a screen such as this or one with comparable functionality the user may first choose a broad type of criterion trigger block to be further considered at block of the flowchart of as described below in establishing automated communications between a user of the mobile terminal and a remote caregiver. Three categories of criteria are presented though others may be used those based on the user s behavior those based on the user s environment and those based on the user s body i.e. changes in biological or physiological state . Thus changes in the user s behavior environment or body may trigger automated communications as specified further in this disclosure.

To aid the user in arriving at a specific criterion subcategories or lists of options may be provided within each of the behavioral environmental and biological categories from which the user may choose block see also . Behavioral subcategories may include but are not limited to speech i.e. uttering certain words phrases or sounds acting out e.g. tantruming screaming shouting or crying hitting or abusing a person or animal bodily motions e.g. rocking in place covering ears or eyes or falling to the ground lack of engagement e.g. zoning out or losing attention staring at an object engagement e.g. proper use of or attention paid to the mobile terminal or to another person and inappropriate use or abuse of the mobile terminal e.g. slamming pounding dropping or otherwise misusing the device .

Criteria related to the user s environment not shown may include but are not limited to the occurrence of noises and sounds changes in lighting temperature changes changes in altitude changes in geographic location the detected presence of an object and the detected presence of another person or being.

Criteria related to the user s body biology or physiology not shown may include but are not limited to heart rate blood pressure blood glucose level temperature galvanic or electrodermal skin response and pupil dilation. A more detailed description of the use of sensors peripherals peripheral devices or other technologies associated with the mobile terminal to determine whether such criteria have been satisfied is saved for the discussion of block of the flowchart of which appears below.

Continuing the example it is assumed that the user selects the option labeled The user s behavior as shown in . Accordingly the discussion proceeds to or a screen with similar functionality which depicts the behavior related subcategories described above.

Assuming the user selects the Speech option a screen such as that illustrated by may be presented or a screen with similar functionality. Using a screen such as this the caregiver may begin to configure a speech related behavioral criterion e.g. a word phrase or other utterance that when spoken by a user will trigger automated communications block . Using one option a caregiver may search or browse an already existing Dictionary to select a particular word or phrase to be used as a trigger. Using another option the caregiver may choose to record and save a custom voiceprint. Further the caregiver may select a volume threshold such that when sounds e.g. speech is detected above or below the threshold notifications to a remote caregiver and or automated communications with the remote caregiver may be triggered e.g. if a disabled person who is carrying mobile terminal screams more than once within a given minute then automated communications with a remote caregiver may be triggered .

If the caregiver selects the latter option a screen such as that of or one having comparable functionality may be shown enabling the user to enter a name for the new voiceprint through the user interface e.g. a touch keypad or hardwired keys . After the user selects the Save option shown by a screen such as that of or one having comparable functionality may be output.

The screen of allows a user to record and save a customized voiceprint in this example for the word test . Controls allow the user to Rewind Stop Play Record Skip to a particular point within a recording Undo and Save. Audio may be recorded by an integrated microphone of the mobile terminal by a lapel microphone or by another microphone in communication with the mobile terminal or computer . Once a voiceprint is saved control the voiceprint may be added to the software s internal dictionary such that the voiceprint can be later discovered using the search and browse mechanisms shown in . The voiceprint may be recorded by the caregiver or by the disabled individual the latter may be preferred if it is indeed the disabled individual s utterance of the word or phrase that should be used to trigger automated communications . Voice recognition functionality as it pertains to computer and mobile terminal is well known in the art with sophistication and accuracy improving over time. For example using tools readily available in the APPLE IPHONE software development kit NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS INC have developed a software application for the IPHONE called DRAGON DICTATION. The application allows users of the IPHONE to dictate common speech the speech is then recognized so as to produce i text e.g. saved to a notepad or ii a command to execute a particular software function.

Continuing with the example and assuming the user has selected the Save control the user has now specified a trigger condition i.e. an utterance of the word test that should be used to establish automated communications. However at this point in the process of creating an automated help rule the user has yet specify i a coverage period that should pertain to the rule e.g. the software should listen for the word test between the hours of 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Mondays ii one or more specific remote caregivers that should be contacted e.g. contact Mom at a particular phone number if the word test is detected and iii any media that should be utilized as part of the automated communication e.g. pictures text audio or video that should be incorporated within an email text message or phone call . Within the context of the ongoing example each of these steps will be described in turn.

The screen of or one having comparable functionality presents options for configuring a coverage period in association with the automated help rule block . The user may specify that the rule should be in effect as follows i Always ii Use default coverage period i.e. as specified using the Create Edit a Profile screen of or iii Specify a period for this rule i.e. allowing the user to input a coverage start and a coverage end using an interface similar to that shown . In the example the user specifies an applicable period and then selects the Save Coverage Period option advancing the ongoing example to .

Using a screen such as that of or one having comparable functionality the user specifies one or more caregivers to be contacted block in association with the automated help rule. The user may select options such as i Use a default caregiver i.e. as specified using the Create Edit a Profile screen of ii Add a new caregiver i.e. entering data as shown by or iii Choose specific caregiver s i.e. from a list as shown . Thus the user may instruct that one or more particular caregivers should be contacted if the specified trigger condition e.g. an utterance of the word test during the applicable coverage period is satisfied.

Continuing the example and assuming the user selects the Save Caregiver s option a screen such as that of or one having comparable functionality may be presented. The screen allows the user to identify one or more communication types which should be utilized when contacting a caregiver block including text messaging email a phone call and post to a Website e.g. a blog a discussion forum designed as a support group for those affected by a particular disability a site maintained by a 24 hour Remote Help service that operates in conjunction with the software of the present disclosure social network e.g. Twitter Facebook a network designed as a support group for those affected by a particular disability such as iAbida.com or FoggyRock.com or the like.

The user may then specify the content of the communication to the remote caregiver block . When configuring the content of an automated text message or instant message the user has the option to write and save text e.g. a textual description of the situation that has resulted in the automated text message being sent to attach a picture or video file already stored within the memory of the mobile terminal or to create and attach a new picture or video. When configuring an automated email message the user has the option to write a subject and a body to attach a media file already stored within the memory of the mobile terminal e.g. the user s utterance of the word test which served as a trigger for automated communications in this particular example is recorded and attached as an electronic sound file to the email or to create and attach a new media file. When configuring phone call preferences the user may select options such as Connect immediately to the user i.e. meaning that once the call is placed to the caregiver if the caregiver answers a telephone call between the mobile terminal and the caregiver should begin immediately Start with TTS description e.g. allowing the user to type a text message which using Text to Speech TTS technology will be read aloud by a synthesize voiced at the start of the call Include recorded audio e.g. at the start of the call an audio recording of the disabled individual s utterance of the word test is output such that the caregiver can hear the context within which the word was spoken TTS only e.g. a call is placed that when answered by the caregiver results only in a synthesized TTS voice describing the purpose and context of the call without connecting or before connecting the mobile terminal directly to the caregiver for a live telephone call Activate speakerphone locally e.g. the mobile terminal placing the call should automatically enable its speakerphone capability when placing the call and Listen only not shown a one way connection allowing the caregiver only to hear audio from a disabled person s mobile terminal . While not expressly shown by certain fields may be pre populated with text e.g. based on already provided data related to a profile and an automated rule the body of an email is pre populated with Remote help has detected that Jimmy Smith has said the word test the user can simply save this description or edit and subsequently save it . After configuring such communications preferences the user selects the Save Automated Help Rule option block such that the new rule is created and added to the list of saved rules shown by . The user may then back out of the program either by exiting or hitting the back command until the user reaches block where the user may load a profile and begin monitoring as described in greater detail below.

It should be appreciated that if the user instead selects Edit an Existing Profile block the user may see a screen similar to that shown in but with fields already populated with previously stored information that the user may edit by selecting an appropriate field and changing the information as desired. Once the user is done making changes the user may save the edited profile either overwriting the existing profile or using a command such as save as so that the new rule is in addition to the previously existing rule. Once the new profile is saved the user may exit the program or return to block as previously described.

With the rule now programmed the process depicted by the flowchart of continues to decision block wherein it is determined whether the criteria saved in association with the rule have been satisfied. If the criteria are satisfied i.e. the required behavior environmental change or body state has been detected via a sensor associated with the mobile terminal and the current time and date falls within the specified coverage period the process continues to block wherein communications are initiated between the mobile terminal and the remote caregiver. In one embodiment if the criteria are not satisfied the process loops at decision block notwithstanding specified coverage periods or other instructions saved in association with an automated help rule the software continually determines whether criteria are satisfied .

A variety of sensors peripherals peripheral devices and other technologies associated with the mobile terminal may be employed when determining whether a specified behavior environmental change or body state has been detected. Some examples will now be set forth in which particular technologies are paired with the detection particular behaviors environmental changes and body states. Though an example is not provided for every possible pairing this should not be construed as limiting the capacity of the software to employ all available technologies in detecting whether criteria have been satisfied.

In one example of detecting speech an integrated microphone is used to detect that a particular word or phrase has been spoken. In another example a peripheral lapel microphone is used to detect the word or phrase. In any case an uttered word or phrase may be matched to a voiceprint stored within electronic memory. The voiceprint may be generic e.g. the speech criterion is satisfied the word or phrase may be spoken by any person or associated with a particular person e.g. the speech criterion is satisfied only if the word or phrase is spoken by a particular person . Various technologies for so called biometric voiceprint matching using mobile terminals are known in the art e.g. the PHONEFACTOR system manufactured by PHONEFACTOR INC of Overland Park Kans. utilizes such technology .

In some embodiments a criterion may be satisfied if a threshold amount of unintelligible or incoherent speech is detected. For example if words detected through mobile terminal e.g. from a particular user detected through voice print technology fail a grammatical test e.g. similar to a grammar check in a word processing program they may be deemed incoherent such a criterion may be satisfied.

In one example of detecting that a user of the mobile terminal is acting out or otherwise upset an integrated microphone is used to detect screaming shouting or crying. In another example a peripheral lapel microphone may be used to detect such noises. In some embodiments for a criterion to be satisfied noise must be above a threshold decibel level e.g. as specified by a caregiver . In some embodiments a caregiver may record such sounds as produced by a disabled individual in a manner similar to that described previously with respect to recording speech the recording may then be used similar to a voiceprint for establishing a benchmark against which such sounds may be compared during the detecting process. In other examples of detecting maladaptive behavior or tantruming physical acts may be considered. For example in some embodiments certain types of bodily motion may be indicative of acting out e.g. a user wearing a ring watch or other peripheral device attached to an arm may engage in aggressive arm motions for a period of time the motions detected by a sensor embedded within the peripheral device . Also physical interaction with the mobile terminal may be considered. For example a pressure sensor associated with a button or screen of the mobile terminal may detect an excessive amount of force an accelerometer may detect excessive motion a light sensor may detect that a pattern indicative of abusive behavior e.g. the light sensor is repeatedly covered and uncovered and or a vibration sensor may detect an impact. In some embodiments combinations of several of the above behaviors may lead the software to conclude that criteria have been satisfied e.g. simultaneous crying above a threshold decibel level and physical mishandling of the mobile terminal are illustrative of tantruming behavior .

In some embodiments the disabled user of mobile terminal may be randomly or periodically prompted by mobile terminal to perform a task such as answering a multiple choice question e.g. when is your birthday . If the task is not performed or is performed incorrectly criteria may be satisfied e.g. such that automated communications with a remote caregiver ensue . Such an embodiment may be particularly beneficial where disabled users of mobile terminals suffer from afflictions which present episodically such as Alzheimer s syndrome as such users may be tested to determine their then current state of functioning. That is if the disabled user fails to perform the task appropriately it may be inferred that caregiver assistance may be appropriate. The remote communication triggering embodiments of the present disclosure may then facilitate such remote caregiver assistance through mobile terminal .

In some embodiments the detection of certain types of bodily motions may cause criteria to be satisfied. Various types of bodily motions may be detected using sensors described herein. In one example bodily motions of rocking in place or shaking of the head are detected using eyeglasses e.g. a motion sensor infrared sensor RFID transponder or other sensor is embedded within the eyeglasses communicating relative head position to the mobile terminal . Waving of the hand flailing of the arms punching hitting kicking or running may be detected by peripheral devices attached to arms or legs. Covering of the ears or eyes may be detected using a combination of sensors e.g. eyeglasses and ring . Further in some embodiments any of the above motions may be detected without the use of a peripheral device. For example an integrated camera or motion sensor oriented toward the arms e.g. as facilitated by the hanging of mobile terminal around a user s neck using lanyard may detect excessive arm motions. Accelerometer and or a vibration sensor may detect the mobile terminal and perhaps thus its user has fallen to the ground.

In some embodiments a criterion may be satisfied if it is determined that a user is sufficiently engaged with the mobile terminal a current activity or another person. In one example eyeglasses are used to determine that the user s gaze is oriented toward the mobile terminal e.g. using camera an RFID transponder an infrared sensor or the like . In another example a separate peripheral device associated with an object or person e.g. an RFID receiver or other sensor carried or worn by a physically present caregiver such as a teacher may be used in conjunction with eyeglasses e.g. worn by a disabled individual to determine that a disabled individual s gaze is indeed oriented in the direction of the object or person e.g. for at least a threshold percentage of time over the course of a particular time period . In some embodiments it may be desirable to determine whether a user of the mobile terminal is engaged in social activity or at least within the company of other persons . In one example a user of the mobile terminal may be considered sufficiently socially engaged if a microphone or another microphone such as lapel microphone detects at least a minimum level of speech activity or ambient volume level during a specified period of time. In another example one or more sensors or other technologies associated with a first mobile terminal e.g. carried by a disabled individual may be used to determine that a second mobile terminal or peripheral device e.g. carried by another individual is present. Many technologies may be employed to accomplish such a goal including a motion sensor infrared sensor RFID GPS triangulation of geolocation using WiFi or cellular network nodes. In one such embodiment a first and second mobile terminal may be registered e.g. using software of the present disclosure as buddy or friend devices e.g. to facilitate the determination that a specific caregiver friend is nearby a disabled individual at a particular time . In another embodiment using GPS WiFi triangulation and or cellular triangulation the current location of a mobile terminal is determined to be in an area known to be social or well populated in nature e.g. a school a coffee shop a library .

Conversely a criterion may be satisfied if it is determined that a user is not sufficiently engaged with the mobile terminal a current activity or another person. In such embodiments criteria described in the immediately preceding paragraph may be reversed. For example eyeglasses are used to determine that the user s gaze is oriented away from the mobile terminal for a particular duration of time. In another example a separate device e.g. a buddy or friend mobile terminal is not detected within a specified range.

In some embodiments the detection of a specific environmental noise or sound may satisfy a criterion. Such noises and sounds may be detected in a manner similar to that described above with respect to speech. Various systems are known for classifying environmental sounds. One such system the SOLAR Sound Object Localization and Retrieval system as developed by researchers at the UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHAMPAGNE URBANA compares sounds detected by microphones to a vast database of sound types so as to distinguish car horns dog barks trains human voices etc. Software of the present disclosure may communicate with such a database using an API.

In some embodiments the detection of a specific amount of light in the environment proximate to the mobile terminal may satisfy a criterion. For example a light sensor may detect a particular abundance or lack of light during a period of time e.g. indicating that the mobile terminal is in direct sunlight or in a dark environment .

In some embodiments the detection of a specific environmental temperature may satisfy a criterion. For example a thermometer may be used to determine that the mobile terminal is in a particularly cold environment e.g. beneath 40 F. . In another example a directional temperature sensor may determine that a nearby object is at or above a threshold temperature e.g. a nearby stove fire or other object is excessively hot .

In one embodiment the detection of an altitude change may satisfy a criterion. For example an altimeter may be used to determine that an altitude associated with the mobile terminal has dropped rapidly within a short period of time.

In some embodiments data concerning the geographic location of the mobile terminal may satisfy a criterion. As is known in the mobile terminal art a current geographic location may be determined using GPS technology triangulation using WiFi or cellular network nodes or the like. In one example a criterion may be satisfied if the mobile terminal is within proximity of a particular geographic location at a particular time. In another example a criterion may be satisfied if the mobile terminal has strayed outside of a geographic safe zone expressly programmed by a caregiver e.g. a 10 mile radius surrounding school and home . In another example a criterion is satisfied if the mobile terminal has been detected within sufficient range of three separate geographic areas within a particular time e.g. a child carrying the mobile terminal has gone from school to an after school program and finally to home on a particular afternoon . In another example a criterion is satisfied if the mobile terminal has been taken to a new geographic location as per a database storing previously visited locations.

In some embodiments the detection of a nearby person or object may satisfy a criterion. In one example as described such a person or object may wear or carry a device equipped with a sensor and the sensor may in turn communicate the presence of the object or person to the mobile terminal . In another embodiment a microphone may be used to detect a voiceprint associated with another person e.g. a specific caregiver . In another embodiment an integrated camera or camera associated with a peripheral device such as camera may detect the presence of a particular person or object. For example an image comparison search engine may be employed allowing for images captured by a camera to be matched with those included within a large online database. An example of such technology is the TINEYE REVERSE IMAGE SEARCH ENGINE created by IDEE INC of Toronto Canada which includes a commercial API allowing third party software applications such as the software of the present disclosure to communicate with the database.

In some embodiments a criterion is satisfied based on heart rate data associated with a user of the mobile terminal . For example a user s heart rate may be monitored through the employ of a patch wristwatch ring or other wearable device that may detect and transmit such data e.g. a bracelet anklet wristband etc. . A criterion may be satisfied by a specified increase in decrease in or consistent level of beats per minute e.g. a user s heart rate remains beneath 60 beats per minute for a period of time .

In some embodiments a criterion is satisfied based on blood pressure data associated with a user of the mobile terminal . For example a user s blood pressure may be monitored through the employ of a patch wristwatch ring or other wearable device such as an armband. A criterion may be satisfied by a specified increase in decrease in or consistent level of pressure e.g. a user s blood pressure spikes above 130 80 . In one example a caregiver sets a coverage period such that it aligns with a period shortly after a disabled individual is scheduled to take blood pressure medication if blood pressure rises during the coverage period it may be inferred that the individual has forgotten to take a dosage of medication.

In some embodiments a criterion is satisfied based on blood glucose data associated with a user of the mobile terminal . For example a user s blood glucose may be monitored using technologies described previously in this disclosure. A criterion may be satisfied by a specified increase in decrease in or consistent level of blood glucose e.g. a user s blood sugar level drops beneath 60 mg dL .

In some embodiments a criterion is satisfied based on body temperature data associated with a user of the mobile terminal . For example a user s body temperature may be monitored using a peripheral device described herein e.g. a patch wristwatch or ring comprising an infrared or heat sensor . A criterion may be satisfied by a specified increase in decrease in or consistent body or skin temperature.

In some embodiments a criterion is satisfied based on electrodermal or galvanic skin response GSR data associated with a user of the mobile terminal . Such data are used in the art to monitor and infer human emotions e.g. fear anger anxiety startle response orienting response . GSR data may be read and transmit using a peripheral device with the device enabled to measure electrical resistance between two points on the user s skin. Commercially available sensors such as the GSR 2 as produced by THOUGHT TECHNOLOGY LTD of Plattsburgh N.Y. may be adapted for purposes of this disclosure. A criterion may be satisfied based on an increase or decrease in electrodermal activity e.g. a sharp increase may suggest a user has grown fearful or anxious .

Having described a wide array of criteria that may trigger automated communications and manners for detecting the satisfaction of such criteria the discussion now turns to block of the flowchart of wherein automated communications to a remote caregiver are initiated. As described previously with respect to a user programming an automated help rule selects one or more communication methods including text messaging email a phone call and posts to a Website social network or the like and further configures preferences related to the communication e.g. any multimedia content to be included as part of the communication . Thus the communication as configured by the user in block of is now initiated in block .

Generally speaking certain communication modalities may make particular sense when matched to certain criteria for triggering automated communications e.g. more urgent circumstances may require a phone call or text message whereas less urgent circumstances may be handled by email or by posting to a social network . Rather than walk through each possible arrangement three particular examples will now be described wherein a caregiver programs criteria for an automated help rule the criteria are satisfied and automated communications are initiated as instructed.

A first example is illustrated by . In this example a caregiver has programmed an automated help rule based on speech as uttered by a user of the mobile terminal a behavioral consideration . Using software of the present disclosure the caregiver first configures a mobile terminal which will be carried and used primarily by a disabled individual. As shown by the caregiver records a word or phrase to be used as a trigger in establishing automated communications. In this example the caregiver has recorded and saved a disabled child s utterance of the phrase Dee o the phrase that may sound meaningless to those who do not know the child but the caregiver understands this phrase to mean all done the child would like the current activity such as eating to end . Though not shown by the caregiver then utilizes the software to program any applicable coverage periods caregivers or communication preferences associated with the automated help rule. In this case the caregiver has indicated that the form of communication should be a phone call placed to a phone number corresponding to mobile terminal which will be carried and used by the caregiver. Moving to the child e.g. named Jimmy Smith subsequently carries the mobile terminal optionally using lanyard to hang the device around his neck and indeed utters the phrase Dee o while being fed a fruit snack at an after school program indicating a desire to stop eating the snack. Upon detecting the utterance of the phrase through the optional use of lapel microphone the software determines that the programmed criteria of an automated help rule have been satisfied e.g. not only has the phrase been spoken but it has been spoken at least five times within several minutes during a specified coverage period and accordingly initiates automated communications by calling mobile terminal . Depending on the call preferences previously selected by the caregiver the caregiver may immediately be connected to mobile terminal for a live phone call in this example it is assumed that the caregiver has selected both the Start with TTS description and Include recorded audio call options as shown by . Thus upon answering the call the caregiver first hears a computerized voice read aloud This call has been placed because Jimmy Smith has spoken a word you have selected as a Remote Help trigger. Please listen as a recording of Jimmy will now be played . Continuing to listen the caregiver then hears a recording captured by mobile terminal and transmit to mobile terminal over the call of the disabled child repeatedly uttering the phrase Dee o and then saying Fruit snack . Because the caregiver previously selected an Activate speakerphone locally option the caregiver may then speak into mobile terminal such that all individuals proximate to mobile terminal may hear. At this time the caregiver may translate for the disabled child informing those physically present that the child would like to stop eating fruit snacks. Though mobile terminals and appear similar it should be understood that in practice different mobile terminals may be used.

A second example is illustrated by . In this example a caregiver has programmed an automated help rule based on the geographic location of the mobile terminal an environmental consideration . The caregiver begins by configuring mobile terminal which will be carried and used primarily by a disabled individual e.g. Alex Johnson . To configure an automated help rule based on the geographic location of the mobile terminal the caregiver may navigate a series of menus to arrive at the screen depicted by . Specific menu options are not shown but they may appear similar to those of albeit with categories and options related to the user s environment location rather than the user s behavior speech. Using the screen of the caregiver is encouraged to create a geographic safe zone . This may be done utilizing touch screen display as shown e.g. the user drags and drops two pins across a map and presses Save creating the zone or another method e.g. entering an address and then setting a radius of a certain number of miles surrounding the address . Regardless after the safe zone is configured and saved the mobile terminal is given to the disabled individual. Indeed the disabled individual has taken the wrong bus home on a particular Wednesday afternoon and as shown by a map indicating the safe zone and a pin signifying the current location of mobile terminal as determined by GPS or another method described herein this results in the mobile terminal being taken outside of the safe zone during a specified coverage period. An automated help rule is triggered. Per the rule a few different communications are triggered i a phone call to the caregiver s spouse who works from home on Wednesdays and is likely nearby not shown and ii an email alert to a 24 hour Remote Help service retained by the caregivers e.g. for a monthly service fee which may be based on the number of automated help rules created by the primary caregivers . The alert is shown by which depicts a computer controlled by an employee of the service. The employee is instructed to call the child s school in hopes of tracking down Alex e.g. the school may contact the bus driver whose route corresponds with Alex s current location as advised by the employee of the service .

A third example is illustrated by . In this example a caregiver e.g. a psychologist or guidance counselor has programmed an automated help rule based on heart rate and electrodermal activity data associated with a user of the mobile terminal considerations based on the user s body . The caregiver first programs threshold levels e.g. 130 beats per minute for heart rate and Med High for electrodermal activity above which automated communications should be triggered. The caregiver also specifies a coverage period e.g. a period when the mobile terminal user is expected to be relatively calm and configures any other applicable options. The mobile terminal is then given to a user in this instance named Eleanor. Eleanor carries the mobile terminal and equips a ring to measure and transmit heart rate data and a patch to measure and transmit electrodermal activity data. Eleanor who suffers from chronic panic attacks and anxiety feels nervous in advance of taking a high school exam. As her emotions intensify her heart rate increases and her skin and muscle tissue begin to react. Based on input from the sensors an automated communication is accordingly triggered i.e. the thresholds are exceeded as illustrated by . In this example the caregiver s selected communication modality is that of text message to a mobile terminal . As shown by the caregiver accordingly receives a text message on the screen of mobile terminal which again appears similar in look and feel to mobile terminal though different terminals may be used . The caregiver may respond by selecting a hyperlink to view the associated biometric data and or by sending a response text message to Eleanor s mobile terminal e.g. attempting to calm Eleanor down and assuring her not to be nervous about her exam .

As is demonstrated within the above examples in some embodiments a caregiver receiving a phone call text message or other form of automated communications may respond to the mobile terminal that initiated contact. This optional step is shown as block of the flowchart of . In one embodiment receiving a response from a caregiver comprises answering a phone call placed by the mobile terminal . In another embodiment receiving a response from a caregiver comprises placing a phone call e.g. to an indicated number . A caregiver might also respond by sending a text message sending an email accepting a video conference invitation or posting on a Web site or social network. At any rate a caregiver may provide care instructions therapy instructions behavioral tips or suggestions a translation of speech history or background about the disabled individual or any other pertinent data either directly to the disabled individual or to a physically present caregiver at this time.

Example audio responses from a remote caregiver include i Oh Ms. Johnson he s trying to say all done Maybe the texture of the finger paints are bothering him such that the audio is output by a mobile terminal s speakerphone ii Edna this is Chris from the Online Help Center. Please STOP what you are doing and take the medication in the BIG pill container. It says MORNING PILLS on it such that an elderly woman can be directly assisted in taking her medication iii Excuse me. My son has autism. He doesn t understand you. Please stop bullying him. I have a picture of you and will tell your mother about this next time I see her such that the audio is output by a mobile terminal s speakerphone iv Whoever is listening please get Allison away from the monkey bars Her coordination is not good and I am very worried she will fall such that the audio is output by a mobile terminal s speakerphone and v It s too bright Wear your sunglasses such that an individual with sensory processing challenges is directly given guidance.

Example responses primarily involving text include i Chester the mall is TOO LOUD and too busy for you. Please go take the bus back home sent via text message directly to Chester s mobile terminal ii Great job asking for help Albert. Next time you can say My leg hurts if that is what is bothering you as posted by a physical therapist in a response to an automated post from Albert on a social network iii Say THANK YOU to the nice man sent via text message directly to an individual with Asperger s disorder who sometimes struggles in social situations iv Hi Ms. Johnson it s Cassie s mom. I think she s struggling with her assignment right now because of the fluorescent lights. Can she do her assignment in the hallway sent via instant messenger from a parent to a child s teacher and v Please find attached a sequence of pictures that should help guide Stephen through lunchtime sent from a therapist to a parent via email .

In some embodiments responding to an automated communication may comprise forwarding or routing media associated with the communication to another person. In one example a school nurse is notified via text message that a child has fallen outside during recess on her way outside she forwards the notification to a mobile terminal used by the child s parent. In another example a staff member at a 24 hour remote help center reviews data about an elderly woman and determines the woman is somewhat far from home and may be lost the staff member transmits an email message to the elderly woman s daughter informing the daughter of the woman s current location. In another example parent is notified that his child is screaming and sends text messages to all friend or buddy mobile terminals within a certain geographical proximity of the disabled individual s mobile terminal . For example the parent may be permitted to send a text message to individuals near on the scene reading Please help Johnny if you are nearby. Unfortunately the more he screams the more people look. Please encourage people not stare at him and he should be fine. Thanks for understanding. Or by way of another example the parent may send a text message to individuals reading Dear Fairfield Special Needs Parent Support Group Johnny Smith has left his safe zone and I am stuck in traffic. He is at 234 Main Street right now. Can someone please pick him up Please reply to all if so. Thanks Fred Smith. 

In one embodiment different versions of software of the present disclosure may exist. In particular it is contemplated that one version of the software may be designed to operate on a mobile terminal used primarily by a disabled individual whereas another version may be designed to operate on a mobile terminal used primarily by a caregiver e.g. Remote Help vs. Remote Help for Caregivers . The two versions might be thought of as companions to one another and may be linked or co registered so as to facilitate communications between the mobile terminals. For example in one embodiment a caregiver may purchase a copy of each version as a bundle or package hardware may or may not be included . The caregiver may then configure each version of the software saving relevant contact information and settings in each and ultimately maintaining a caregiver specific version on his or her own mobile terminal .

In some embodiments a caregiver may use a caregiver specific version of the software to remotely control a mobile terminal in the possession of a disabled user. For example after receiving a notification that a child is disoriented in a loud environment a caregiver responds by i sending a text message informing the child to plug in and wear a peripheral headset and ii sending an instruction such that the child s mobile terminal outputs a soothing piece of classical music stored electronically on the child s mobile terminal. In another example a caregiver possesses a mobile terminal loaded with a caregiver specific software application that lets the parent select buttons options to Buzz Jimmy s Phone Make Jimmy s Phone say Hello My Name is Jimmy Make Jimmy s Phone say I have autism please be patient with me etc. In this manner the caregiver may remotely manipulate voice output software on the mobile terminal to help them communicate.

In some embodiments bundles or packages featuring multiple copies of the software may comprise copies for multiple caregivers and or multiple disabled individuals. For example two parents may each utilize a caregiver specific version while their child uses another version e.g. a family pack . In another example a speech therapist uses a caregiver specific version while each of her clients use a version designed to track their speech and provide updates to the therapist who may patch in and help certain clients at certain times. When multiple caregivers are registered in conjunction with a disabled individual caregivers may periodically sign in and note that they are available or on duty through use of the caregiver specific version of the software. Given the wide array of sensors and technologies described herein caregivers of all sorts e.g. parents teachers relatives speech therapists occupational therapists physical therapists nannies or day care service providers caretakers of elders paraprofessionals aides psychologists nurses doctors spiritual advisors etc. may assist disabled users of all sorts e.g. those with ASD Down syndrome cerebral palsy Fragile X syndrome ADD ADHD cognitive challenges anxiety stress and panic related disorders Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease dementia stroke brain injury seizure disorders diabetes physical impairments etc. in such a manner. Moreover a schedule may be constructed and or maintained to ensure continuity in monitoring a given disabled user by the various caregivers associated with the given disabled individual. For example if a certain caregiver that is schedule to be on call for a particular disabled user does not respond to a prompt or message then another caregiver associated with the disabled user may be recruited to maintain the monitoring function during the given period.

The methods described above lend themselves to a database of saved user profiles. An exemplary user profile database is depicted by . Each record of the user profile database may be given a unique identifier e.g. P 0001 . Each record may then store various data in association with the unique identifier. A profile name as entered by a caregiver may be saved e.g. Jimmy Smith . An indication of whether or not the profile is currently loaded for use by the software may also be saved. Within each profile various user programmed settings may be stored. For example for each automated help rule that is programmed the database may store i a first trigger e.g. an indication of what should initiate automated communications such as a detected speech part ii a first trigger type e.g. behavioral environmental or biometric iii any sensors or other technologies implicated in detecting the first trigger e.g. a microphone GPS technology a peripheral ring etc. iv a second trigger second trigger type and sensors implicated in detecting the second trigger if applicable not shown v a coverage period e.g. a time and date during which the rule is in effect vi a communication medium or if more than one medium applies communications media e.g. phone call email text message blog or Website post etc. vii the body of the communication e.g. any text to be included in a text based communication or included as TTS in a voice communication viii caregiver name s e.g. for any caregivers listed as a recipient of the automated communication and ix contact information for any specified caregivers e.g. phone numbers email addresses instant message handles etc. . Thus as software of the present disclosure is programmed data may be stored and subsequently accessed to facilitate the execution of process steps shown by the flowchart of . If necessary such a database may include other fields not shown by e.g. to indicate any media attachments preferences or other data associated with a rule . The database may be stored locally by mobile terminal or by a central server in communication with the mobile terminal .

In addition to the various embodiments disclosed above various alternate embodiments are also contemplated. These alternate embodiments are not meant to be mutually exclusive with those previously disclosed or with one another. In one such alternate embodiment a caregiver may configure the software such that automated communications are trigger based only on a schedule. For example at 4 00 PM a text message should be sent from a child s mobile terminal to a parent s mobile terminal informing the parent as to the current geographic location of the child s mobile terminal.

In one embodiment criteria for triggering automated communications may be inferred and configured automatically by the software based on responses to survey questions. For example a caregiver or disabled individual may answer a series of questions using a mobile terminal or a computer . In one embodiment the survey is conducted as a requisite step when a user first opens the software. For example a caregiver may complete an intake survey or questionnaire about a child with a sensory processing disability providing information about the child s specific sensory deficits. Such a survey is known in the art as a Sensory Profile Sensory Processing Disorder Survey or Sensory Processing Measure Survey and elements of a prior art survey developed by Winnie Dunn Ph.D. of the University of Kansas Medical Center may be used for purposes of this disclosure. When completing the survey caregivers mark Always Frequently Occasionally Seldom Never in response to various behaviors associated with a child s tactile sensitivity e.g. Expresses distress during grooming taste smell sensitivity e.g. Limits self to certain food textures temperatures movement sensitivity e.g. Becomes anxious or distressed when feet leave the ground sensory seeking behavior e.g. Enjoys strange noises seeks to make noise for noise s sake auditory filtering e.g. Is distracted or has trouble when there is lots of noise around kinetic energy e.g. Has a weak grasp visual auditory sensitivity e.g. Covers eyes or squints to protect eyes from light etc. Criteria for triggering automated communications may then by formed by the software based on responses to the questions for example if the caregiver indicates a child is frequently distracted when there is lots of noise around an automated help rule may be created whereby the caregiver is alerted via text message if the child s mobile terminal detects ambient noise above a threshold decibel level for a period of time. Intake surveys for other disabilities or conditions may be conducted in a similar manner.

In one embodiment criteria for triggering automated communications may be developed based on continued use of the software. For example a database may track behavioral environmental and biometric data related to a disabled user. In one example if a certain type of behavior is undesirable an antecedent environmental occurrence may be determined based on the database e.g. data indicate a child with autism screams and tantrums when near trains or a train station the train station may be considered an antecedent to the undesirable tantruming behavior . The antecedent may then serve as a criterion for initiating automated communications e.g. a caregiver is contacted when a child begins to approach a train station as determined by GPS . Various methods of tracking and associating user behaviors and environmental antecedents are described in Applicant s co pending provisional patent applications 61 152 907 filed Feb. 16 2009 and entitled METHODS FOR RECORDING AND ANALYZING ENVIRONMENTAL AND BEHAVIORAL DATA USING A MOBILE TERMINAL and 61 227 480 filed Jul. 22 2009 and entitled METHOD FOR RECORDING AND ANALYZING ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL DATA CONCERNING AUTISM AND OTHER DISABILITIES USING A MOBILE TERMINAL these documents are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

In some embodiments upon the initiation of automated communications one or more input devices associated with a mobile terminal may be automatically disabled. For example upon the placement of a phone call from a disabled individual s mobile terminal to a caregiver the display screen of the mobile terminal may be disabled or locked e.g. for the duration of the call or until enabled or unlocked by a physically present caregiver . This may prevent undesirable behavior such as the disabled individual s premature selection of an End Call option.

In some embodiments upon the initiation of automated communications functionality associated with a mobile terminal may be automatically enabled. For example upon placing a call a speakerphone option may automatically be enabled. In other example upon automatically sending a text message speaker may output an audio indication that such automated communications have been initiated e.g. A text message has been sent to Sandra Brown .

In some embodiments an automated communication initiated from a mobile terminal may be only partially automated. In one example a disabled user of mobile terminal may have an option to approve or reject an automated communication before it is sent e.g. a text message is automatically typed by the software on behalf of the user such that all the user need do is press a button to send the message . In another example a physically present caregiver must approve an automatically generated communication before it is initiated e.g. a child s aide at school must key in a four digit code to approve a message that will be sent to a remote care center .

In some embodiments a disabled user of the mobile terminal may proactively request help i.e. without regard for an automated help rule . This may be facilitated in a variety of manners such that disabled users may bypass many of the normal steps required to seek remote help e.g. type in a phone number look up a contact within an electronic address book etc. . In one example with the help of a caregiver a disabled user may program a voice command for calling or sending a prefabricated text or email message to a particular caregiver. In another example by holding down one or more buttons e.g. in a sequence or simultaneously the disabled user may initiate automated communications e.g. software is programmed such that by simultaneously holding down two particular buttons for five seconds a prefabricated text message is automatically sent to a first phone number a call is placed to a second phone number and a prefabricated block of text is posted on an online social network . In another example accelerometer is leveraged such that after the software is so programmed a disabled user may simply shake three times to initiate communications with one or more particular caregivers. Any series or combination of buttons commands or inputs may be similarly programmed to initiate an automated communication. In yet another example a button or icon for proactively initiating communications may be depicted by a touch screen display and to facilitate a disabled user s ability to actuate the button or icon at an appropriate time the button or icon may change in size based on one or more of i the level of fine motor control demonstrated by a user ii the ambient noise volume as detected by a microphone e.g. the louder the noise detected the bigger the button iii the brightness of the environment surrounding the mobile terminal as measured by a light sensor iv an amount of motion activity as detected by a motion sensor and or accelerometer iv biometric data as gleaned from one or more of the sensors described herein e.g. as heart rate increases so does the size of the button v speech as uttered by a user and detected by a microphone e.g. each time the user mentions a particular word the size of the button grows and or vi any criterion for initiating a communication with a caregiver disclosed herein.

In one embodiment as described a 24 hour remote help service may be made available to the users of software of the present disclosure. The service may provide e.g. for a monthly fee access to around the clock personnel available to remotely assist disabled users. Such personnel may be trained and work from one or more central offices or may train and work from their homes using a personal computer. In one embodiment such personnel may respond to automated communications placed by mobile terminals in conjunction with software of the present disclosure e.g. as shown by an individual may use a personal computer to respond to a plurality of such alerts in parallel or in series . In another embodiment such personnel may monitor a mobile terminal user in substantially continuous or periodic basis e.g. using any received automated communications from the mobile terminal users as guidance in helping to triage their attention between multiple active users or unresolved alerts .

Such a 24 hour remote help service may alternately or additionally comprise an Internet based service for providing data to caregivers. For example subscribers to the service may be granted access to a password protected Website for monitoring a particular disabled individual. For example after logging in during a lunch break while at work a father can use the Internet service to review the morning s automated communications and any environmental behavioral or biometric data that may have been captured and uploaded to a server controlled by the service. For example the father might review a digest of his son s speech vitals and geographic location over the course of the morning and conclude that his son appears to be doing mostly well. However the father might notice a particular series of automated communications in this example embodied as posts to a Web server maintained by the Internet service which were triggered by a particular element of speech the father had been hoping his son would soon improve upon e.g. baby talk that the son has yet to outgrow a mispronunciation of a word inappropriate use of a word in context . The father might then initiate contact with the child s speech therapist to address the issue e.g. as part of the subscription the therapist is also given access to the Website allowing the father to flag the audio files of the recorded speech along with a note to the therapist expressing his desire to please work on this .

In one embodiment the mobile terminal may initiate an automated communication to all on call parties within a certain geographical proximity of the disabled user s device. For example parents of autistic children may belong to an organization that maintains a database of similarly situated parents. When the mobile terminals of such registered parents are determined to be within a certain geographical proximity of a disabled user s mobile terminal and it is determined that the disabled user may need help the geographically proximate parents may be notified. In this way the community of caregivers who understand and may be particularly sympathetic to particular afflictions may be notified if someone with the affliction e.g. autism needs help. For example a message to a participating caregiver may read An autistic teenager at the Burger King on Bridgeport Avenue needs your help. Press Yes to indicate that you can be there within 10 minutes. Thank you for being part of the Autism Everyday Help Network. Caregivers may affirmatively respond to a request for assistance sent on behalf of a disabled individual such that the request is no longer considering pending.

In still another embodiment some of the processing may be removed from the mobile terminal and handled by a remotely positioned control system. That is the mobile terminal merely sends periodic signals including the data from the sensors camera microphone accelerometer peripherals and or peripheral devices or the like to the remotely positioned control system. The remotely positioned control system may then compare the data to a profile created on computer and transmitted to the remotely positioned control system to determine if the criterion meets or exceeds any threshold and may initiate communications to a remote caregiver according to the rules of the profile. As another variation the mobile terminal initiates contact to the remotely positioned control system based on the locally stored profile but the remotely positioned control system determines which remote caregiver should be contacted. In short the processing and decision making may be distributed as desired or practical.

Numerous embodiments are described in this disclosure and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments nor a listing of features of the invention that must be present in all embodiments.

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of this disclosure nor the Abstract set forth at the end of this disclosure is to be taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention s .

The term product means any machine manufacture and or composition of matter as contemplated by 35 U.S.C. 101 unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments one embodiment and the like mean one or more but not all disclosed embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms the invention and the present invention and the like mean one or more embodiments of the present invention. 

A reference to another embodiment in describing an embodiment does not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment e.g. an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term herein means in the present disclosure including anything which may be incorporated by reference unless expressly specified otherwise.

The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the phrase at least one of a widget a car and a wheel means either i a widget ii a car iii a wheel iv a widget and a car v a widget and a wheel vi a car and a wheel or vii a widget a car and a wheel.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on .

Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one of a feature e.g. a limitation such as at least one widget covers one widget as well as more than one widget and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim the second claim uses a definite article the to refer to the limitation e.g. the widget this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature e.g. the widget can cover both one widget and more than one widget .

Each process whether called a method algorithm or otherwise inherently includes one or more steps and therefore all references to a step or steps of a process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term process or a like term. Accordingly any reference in a claim to a step or steps of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.

When an ordinal number such as first second third and so on is used as an adjective before a term that ordinal number is used unless expressly specified otherwise merely to indicate a particular feature such as to distinguish that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example a first widget may be so named merely to distinguish it from e.g. a second widget . Thus the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget 1 does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location 2 does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time and 3 does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other as in importance or quality. In addition the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.

When a single device or article is described herein more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate may alternatively be used in place of the single device or article that is described. Accordingly the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate .

Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate a single device or article may alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example a plurality of computer based devices may be substituted with a single computer based device. Accordingly the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device or article.

The functionality and or the features of a single device that is described may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality and or features. Thus other embodiments need not include the described device itself but rather can include the one or more other devices which would in those other embodiments have such functionality features.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for weeks at a time. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components and or features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present disclosure. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component and or feature is essential or required.

Further although process steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps that does not indicate that all or even any of the steps are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no step is essential or required.

Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components aspects qualities characteristics and or features that does not indicate that all of the plurality are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise an enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the enumerated list a computer a laptop a PDA does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.

Headings of sections provided in this disclosure are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

 Determining something can be performed in a variety of manners and therefore the term determining and like terms includes calculating computing deriving looking up e.g. in a table database or data structure ascertaining recognizing and the like.

A display as that term is used herein is an area that conveys information to a viewer. The information may be dynamic in which case an LCD LED CRT LDP rear projection front projection or the like may be used to form the display. The aspect ratio of the display may be 4 3 16 9 or the like. Furthermore the resolution of the display may be any appropriate resolution such as 480i 480p 720p 1080i 1080p or the like. The format of information sent to the display may be any appropriate format such as standard definition SDTV enhanced definition EDTV high definition HD or the like. The information may likewise be static in which case painted glass may be used to form the display. Note that static information may be presented on a display capable of displaying dynamic information if desired.

The present disclosure frequently refers to a control system . A control system as that term is used herein may be a computer processor coupled with an operating system device drivers and appropriate programs collectively software with instructions to provide the functionality described for the control system. The software is stored in an associated memory device sometimes referred to as a computer readable medium . While it is contemplated that an appropriately programmed general purpose computer or computing device may be used it is also contemplated that hard wired circuitry or custom hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

A processor means any one or more microprocessors CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices. Exemplary processors are the INTEL PENTIUM or AMD ATHLON processors.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during RF and IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM a USB memory stick a dongle any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols. For a more exhaustive list of protocols the term network is defined below and includes many exemplary protocols that are also applicable here.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by a control system and or the instructions of the software may be designed to carry out the processes of the present disclosure.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models hierarchical electronic file structures and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as those described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database. Furthermore while unified databases may be contemplated it is also possible that the databases may be distributed and or duplicated amongst a variety of devices.

As used herein a network is an environment wherein one or more computing devices may communicate with one another. Such devices may communicate directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Exemplary protocols include but are not limited to BLUETOOTH TDMA CDMA GSM EDGE GPRS WCDMA AMPS D AMPS IEEE 802.11 WI FI IEEE 802.3 TCP IP or the like. Note that if video signals or large files are being sent over the network a broadband network may be used to alleviate delays associated with the transfer of such large files however such is not strictly required. Each of the devices is adapted to communicate on such a communication means. Any number and type of machines may be in communication via the network. Where the network is the Internet communications over the Internet may be through a website maintained by a computer on a remote server or over an online data network including commercial online service providers bulletin board systems and the like. In yet other embodiments the devices may communicate with one another over RF cellular networks cable TV satellite links and the like. Where appropriate encryption or other security measures such as logins and passwords may be provided to protect proprietary or confidential information.

Communication among computers and devices may be encrypted to insure privacy and prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art. Appropriate cryptographic protocols for bolstering system security are described in Schneier APPLIED CRYPTOGRAPHY PROTOCOLS ALGORITHMS AND SOURCE CODE IN C John Wiley Sons Inc. 2d ed. 1996 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure provides to one of ordinary skill in the art an enabling description of several embodiments and or inventions. Some of these embodiments and or inventions may not be claimed in the present disclosure but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present disclosure.

