---

title: Semiconductor adiabatic qubits
abstract: A quantum computing device that includes a plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits is described herein. The qubits are programmed with local biases and coupling terms between qubits that represent a problem of interest. The qubits are initialized by way of a tuneable parameter, a local tunnel coupling within each qubit, such that the qubits remain in a ground energy state, and that initial state is represented by the qubits being in a superposition of |0> and |1> states. The parameter is altered over time adiabatically or such that relaxation mechanisms maintain a large fraction of ground state occupation through decreasing the tunnel coupling barrier within each qubit with the appropriate schedule. The final state when tunnel coupling is effectively zero represents the solution state to the problem represented in the |0> and |1> basis, which can be accurately read at each qubit location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530873&OS=09530873&RS=09530873
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09530873
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 757 609 filed on Jan. 28 2013 and entitled SEMICONDUCTOR QUBITS FOR ADIABATIC QUANTUM ANNEALING AND QUANTUM COMPUTING the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

An exemplary quantum computing apparatus includes qubits which are analogous to bits employed in conventional transistor based computing devices. While bits are binary in nature a qubit can have a state associated therewith that is representative of a 1 a 0 or a superposition of a 1 and 0. Multi qubit systems are further distinguished from classical systems through forming quantum entangled systems. Entanglement and tunneling are resources identified as possible sources for computational acceleration that can lead to exceeding the capabilities of conventional transistor based computing devices.

Adiabatic quantum annealing has been proposed as a technology for employment in a quantum computing apparatus. Generally adiabatic quantum annealing refers to representing an optimization problem in terms of an energy landscape for which the global minimum represents the optimized solution. Starting from a known ground state constructed using an external field that can be modulated to zero the system is slowly evolved to the ground state of the optimization problem as the external field is turned off. In conventional implementations of adiabatic quantum annealing in quantum computing apparatuses qubits have been pursued in superconductors wherein a flux associated with a qubit is indicative of its state e.g. 1 0 or a superposition of both . Superconductor based qubits have been applied to a specific optimization problem referred to as a quadratic unconstrained binary optimization QUBO problem. More particularly a quantum computing apparatus that comprises 100 superconductor qubits has been developed and has been shown to accurately solve particular QUBO problems. Scaling properties in this relatively small number of qubits appears promising relative to conventional computer solve times for random samplings of QUBO problems e.g. not necessarily hard problems .

Various deficiencies corresponding superconductor qubits have been identified however including but not limited to 1 a restricted tunability for the adiabatic evolution e.g. the alteration of energy states 2 programming precision 3 energy gap size relative to noise e.g. at least in the 100 qubits regime 4 relatively fast noise dynamics near anti crossings sufficient to produce errors 5 lack of a clear approach to suppress or correct errors 6 qubit uniformity and yield and 7 lack of tests that prove enhanced speed of the quantum computing apparatus relative to other quantum computing apparatuses e.g. measures of adiabaticity quantum behavior and entanglement .

Other exemplary approaches that have been discussed pertaining to adiabatic quantum computing include the history state approach holonomic gates and quantum simulation. Additionally effort has been set forth in atomic physics based quantum computing to utilize ions and neutrons in connection with performing computation. Currently however no known correction for loss of neutrons or ions exists for the adiabatic quantum computing approach rendering it difficult to implement such an adiabatic quantum computing algorithm without significant error.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to an adiabatic quantum computing apparatus. In an exemplary embodiment a quantum computing apparatus can comprise a plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits semiconductor qubits wherein such qubits have various properties that are advantageous in comparison to properties of superconductor qubits. In an exemplary embodiment qubits in the plurality of semiconductor qubits may be charge qubits wherein a value of a semiconductor qubit is a function of a position of an electron relative to two wells in the semiconductor material. In another exemplary embodiment a value of the semiconductor qubit may be a function of a direction of spin of an electron. Further the semiconductor qubits can be double quantum dots DQD .

The adiabatic semiconductor qubit may be implemented in any suitable semiconductor material including but not limited to silicon gallium arsenide etc. It is to be understood that a small number of such qubits can be utilized to solve certain problems that are intractable for classical computers. The exemplary semiconductor adiabatic qubits described herein are advantageous in that they can provide protection against environmental noise via an energy gap between states wherein such energy gap is larger than an energy gap associated with superconductor qubits. Further in the case of charge qubits or in the case of the spin qubit the noise e.g. perturbation on the Hamiltonian can be significantly smaller than other qubit choices although the dynamic range of energies might also be less. In non adiabatic quantum computing apparatuses e.g. circuit model such an energy gap is not employed for error suppression in the computation.

Furthermore an exemplary semiconductor qubit can be mediated with respect to its neighbor by way of a controlled Coloumbic interaction. With more particularity the semiconductor qubits described herein are definable with an eigenbasis of 1 and 0 . Additionally the semiconductor qubit is formed to allow the semiconductor qubit to be biased to a particular state such that the semiconductor qubit can be caused to have a value of 1 in contrast to a 0 or a value of 0 in contrast to a 1 .

Additionally the plurality of semiconductor qubits can be formed such that a fixed coupling exists between neighboring semiconductor qubits. In another exemplary embodiment the plurality of semiconductor qubits can be formed such that a programmable and tunable coupling exists between neighboring semiconductor qubits. The individual qubit bias and the qubit qubit coupling parameters can be used to define a Hamiltonian that represents a problem for which a solution is sought.

Still further an exemplary semiconductor qubit can be formed such that it has a parameter associated therewith that can produce a quantum mechanical superposition of the 0 and 1 states wherein such parameter is programmable in time. The magnitude of such parameter can be tunable to have values from much larger than all other terms in the Hamiltonian such that a known ground state can always be obtained to much smaller than all other terms in the Hamiltonian. Values of this parameter can be changed in time at a slow enough rate to cause the semiconductor qubits to remain in the ground energy state. Still further since the semiconductor qubits described herein are associated with relatively large energy gaps e.g. an energy gap between the ground state and an adjacent energy state excitation caused by noise can be insufficient to cause a semiconductor qubit to leave the ground state thereby preventing errors from overwhelming the computation.

Other exemplary aspects pertaining to the qubits described herein include use of a charge qubit for universal adiabatic quantum computing through implementation of a ZX and XX coupling. Furthermore relaxation processing can be used in semiconductor qubits to produce self error correction during the quantum annealing process. In another exemplary embodiment phonon band gap structures built around the charge qubit can be used to suppress noise and enhance the performance of the adiabatic qubit. In yet another exemplary embodiment hydrogen lithography can be combined with for example STM patterning to achieve atomic precision fabrication of qubits thereby achieving the ultimate limit in uniformity and yield of qubits for quantum annealing. In still yet another exemplary embodiment a charge qubit can be used for improved quantum annealing schedules through the decoupled time dependent nature of the parameters h j and gamma in a charge qubit. Moreover cryogenic CMOS multiplexers demultiplexers and memory capacitors can be integrated on the same chip and used as the silicon qubit chip for control and readout. In another exemplary embodiment a singlet triplet m 1 double quantum dot DQD qubit can be used for quantum annealing and a singlet triplet m 0 DQD qubit can be used for quantum annealing.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a quantum computing apparatus are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Technologies pertaining to quantum computing are described herein. With more particularity a qubit formed in a semiconductor material is described herein semiconductor qubit wherein the qubit is configured for utilization in an adiabatic quantum computing apparatus. Further as will be described herein the qubit can be initialized to reside in the ground energy state and a tunnel coupling parameter can be relatively slowly changed to cause the qubit to remain in the ground state. Subsequently a value of the semiconductor qubit can be read wherein a solution to an optimization problem is based upon the value. With more particularity the semiconductor qubit can be initialized to have a state that corresponds to a superposition of 0 and 1 and the tunnel coupling parameter in the case of a charge qubit can be tuned to facilitate tunneling between energy states. Over time the tunnel coupling parameter can be altered such that tunneling is slowly inhibited. This causes the semiconductor qubit to remain in the ground state while gravitating towards a readable state. Once tunnel coupling is entirely prohibited a value of the semiconductor qubit can be read wherein the solution to the optimization problem is based upon such value.

With reference to an exemplary quantum computing apparatus is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment the quantum computing apparatus can be operated in a refrigerator. As will be described in greater detail herein the quantum computing apparatus includes a semiconductor material which can be any suitable semiconductor material including but not limited to silicon Si gallium arsenide GaAs etc. A grid a plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits semiconductor qubits is formed in the semiconductor material . As will be described in greater detail herein the semiconductor qubits can be initialized based upon a Hamiltonian that represents an optimization problem for which a solution is desired. An adiabatic process can thereafter be undertaken with respect to the semiconductor qubits causing the semiconductor qubits to have states associated therewith that are collectively indicative of the solution to the optimization problem. As will be described in greater detail herein the semiconductor qubits may be charge qubits wherein such charge qubits can be double quantum dot DQD qubits. Thus when the qubits are DQDs the 0 and 1 states can be defined as left or right occupation of the DQD. As will be understood by one skilled in the art the DQD is a lateral electrostatically gated structure that can have a total of one electron or many electrons for which a single electron instability left or right occupation is exploited. In another example the semiconductor qubits can represent values as a function of spin direction of electrons.

The quantum computing apparatus may also include or be associated with at least one voltage source that can output a voltage that is directed to at least one qubit in the plurality of semiconductor qubits . The voltage output by the voltage source can be configured to set a value for a tunable parameter of the semiconductor qubit. For example each qubit in the plurality of semiconductor qubits can have a parameter associated therewith wherein a state of a respective qubit can be biased as a function of a value of the parameter. That is the voltage source can output a signal that causes at least one qubit in the semiconductor qubits to be biased towards a value of that can be tuned and or programmed such that the at least one qubit is biased towards a 1 in contrast to a 0 .

In another example a first qubit in the semiconductor qubits can be Coulombically coupled to a second qubit in the semiconductor qubits wherein a degree of such coupling is tunable. Thus the voltage source can output a voltage signal that is directed towards at least one qubit in the semiconductor qubits wherein the voltage signal controls a degree of Coulombic coupling between the at least one qubit and a neighboring qubit in the plurality of semiconductor qubits . In another exemplary embodiment such coupling can be fixed rather than tunable . Still further the plurality of semiconductor qubits can have a parameter associated therewith that can be controlled to cause the plurality of semiconductor qubits to have a quantum mechanical superposition of 0 and 1 states. Values of such parameters can be tunable in time wherein the values can be based upon a voltage signal output by the voltage source . In other words the voltage source can output a voltage signal that causes at least one qubit in the plurality of semiconductor qubits to have a state that corresponds to the superposition of 0 and 1 states. In another example the voltage source can output a voltage signal that causes the plurality of semiconductor qubits to simultaneously have states corresponding to the superposition of 0 and 1 states e.g. a single voltage signal can simultaneously tune the magnitude of such parameter for all of the semiconductor qubits . The magnitude of this parameter can be tuned from being much larger than other terms in a problem Hamiltonian to being much smaller than other terms in the problem Hamiltonian.

The quantum computing apparatus further includes readout electronics that can be configured to ascertain values of qubits in the plurality of semiconductor qubits . In an exemplary embodiment the readout electronics include a scanning electron microscope SEM which can generate a SEM image. The read out is done using a small constriction near the DQD a quantum point contact QPC . The conductance is sensitive to the position of the electron in the DQD which indicates the state of the qubit. Values can be manually identified by way of inspecting the qubits with the SEM. Other techniques for reading values of the qubits are described below.

Operation of the quantum computing apparatus is now set forth. As indicated above the quantum computing apparatus can be configured to utilize an adiabatic quantum annealing technique in connection with solving an optimization problem. The optimization problem can be represented by a Hamiltonian an exemplary Hamiltonian that can be constructed for a particular type of quantum annealing optimization is as follows 1 

The voltage source is configured to output voltage signals corresponding to desired parameter values for Eq. 1 . Thus the voltage source can output voltage signals that bias particular qubits to particular states can optionally output voltage signals that define a degree of coupling between any neighboring qubits and can further output voltage signals that cause certain qubits to have states associated with the superposition of the 0 and 1 states. Thus the voltage source is configured to emit voltage signals that initialize the plurality of semiconductor qubits for the optimization problem that is desirably solved. Subsequently the voltage source can output voltage signals that reduce the coupling between qubits in the plurality of qubits . As the coupling is reduced the qubits settle to states that can be read by the readout electronics wherein the final states of the qubits is indicative of the solution to the optimization problem.

In another exemplary embodiment the coupling between qubits in the plurality of semiconductor qubits can be fixed not tunable . In such an embodiment the plurality of semiconductor qubits can be initially placed in a non ground state by way of application of an external energy. Such energy can be slowly reduced until the ground state is reached and values of the qubits can subsequently be read by the readout electronics .

With reference to an exemplary layout of electrodes used to form a DQD is shown. The electrodes include an L electrode an LP electrode a CP electrode an RP electrode an R electrode and a T electrode. The exemplary DQD is also shown as including two electrodes on the far left and far right that form the QPCs for charge sensing. Voltage on electrodes LP and RP can control detuning and the magnitude of . Voltage on the electrode CP relative to T can control the magnitude of . Thus Voltage on CP relative to T can be used to enhance or decrease tunnel coupling of the DQD with respect to a neighboring qubit and can thus be varied in time. Voltage on electrode L and or R affect both the tunnel coupling parameter gamma and h. Voltage on LP and RP may also be modified to compensate for overall chemical potential shift of the two dots induced by changing voltage of CP. Cross capacitances can be characterized such that an accurate calculation can be accomplished. further includes a cross sectional view of the DQD. In the cross sectional view it is indicated that the DQD can include an aluminum electrode top gate layered on a relatively thin insulating material SiO . In operation the aluminum electrode can be positively charged thus attracting electrons in the Si substrate to the insulating material. The DQD is thereby formed on the upper portion of Si.

In an exemplary embodiment the magnitude of the detuning can be selected as being between approximately 10 000 ueV and approximately 10 000 ueV e.g. wherein approximately is intended to refer to a range within 10 of the specified value . A limit of detuning can be set by a quantum dot energy scale called Coulomb blockade which is the change in chemical potential sufficient to change the total electron occupation on a dot. The Coulomb blockade energy for small dots can be approximately 10 meV. In an exemplary application as the proposed two qubit coupling energies will be much smaller the detuning range can be limited to between approximately 240 ueV to 240 ueV. Larger ranges are possible for both parameters.

An energy range for an exemplary charge qubit can correspond to temperatures of approximately 3K. At least the plurality of qubits of the quantum computing apparatus can therefore individually be operated in a refrigerator that can obtain as low a temperature as possible while supporting electronics input output including thermal load of the electronics staged at the cold stage. Additional detail pertaining to layout and electronic staging is set forth below. Further additional detail about relevant temperature and noise processes is also discussed below. It can be noted that alternative approaches to a cold finger design of dilution refrigerators is also possible and may assist in maintaining low electron temperatures. For example immersion of a quantum processor chip in an He3 He4 mixture can produce improved thermal contact to both the substrate and metal connections.

Referring now to coupling of a first DQD to a neighboring DQD is illustrated. A first view shown in depicts a schematic coupling between two neighboring qubits as a function of Coulomb repulsion. For instance a charge qubit is an effective electric dipole and the state of one neighbor qubit affects the relative energies of the left or right state of its neighbors. The dot represents the electron position. The three cases shown represent three different energy configurations the top most being the lowest energy i.e. lowest repulsion . Such interaction can be mediated through direct proximity or alternatively a coupling capacitance. A second view in also illustrates capacitive coupling between DQDs wherein such coupling is fixed.

Each qubit state is measured at the end of the algorithm in the Z eigenbasis i.e. left or right for charge qubit through looking at the conductance of a neighboring charge sensor i.e. QPC or SET single electron transistor or tunnel barrier. Such conductance is sensitive to the local electrostatic environment and can sense a single electron change in occupation. Accordingly the measurement technique described herein measures L or R the Z basis. Since the problem evolution remains in the ground state due to the tunnel coupling being decreased instead of energy a final state is stable and can be measured in principle for an arbitrary time which is expected to lead to high measurement fidelity. The arbitrary measurement time is a positive feature of using the ground state in the adiabatic quantum optimization approach compared to non adiabatic qubit approaches.

It can be noted that an alternative measurement technique can be to measure current directly through a charge qubit. In order to establish L or R occupation a high frequency pulse can be applied to a gate that would shift the double quantum dot into a resonant condition that passes current only for the L or R occupation.

In some instances of adiabatic quantum optimization the final state is a product state in the Z eigenbasis. That is each qubit is either a 1 or 0 in the final answer. In this case the existing measurement is sufficient. In more general adiabatic quantum computing this may not necessarily be true and alternative approaches are necessary to read out qubits that for example are in the or state as the final answer state. Measurement of non Z eigenbasis states can be accomplished through a non adiabatic pulse and a single shot readout. For improved signal to noise in a charge qubit multiple single shots can be performed assuming that the qubit will relax back to the ground state sufficiently long after the non adiabatic pulse has occurred.

As noted above at least the semiconductor qubits of the quantum computing apparatus can be operated in a refrigerator. The adiabatic computation can rely on energy gap protection to preserve the ground state wherein the energy gap corresponding to the semiconductor qubits is larger than that associated with conventional superconductor qubits. Environmental sources of energy greater than the gap that couple with the charge qubit may cause errors. Thus the computation can be implemented and the qubits can be operated in a refrigerator such as a dilution refrigerator to reduce thermal energies below the gap energies near the charge qubit. Dilution refrigerators can achieve base temperatures of on the order of 0.01K and other refrigeration systems can achieve even lower temperatures. The base temperature establishes roughly the temperature of the semiconductor crystal and the phonon population in the crystal. At such temperatures the electrons may become weakly coupled to the phonon bath and electrons in quantum dots are effectively at 0K assuming that the quantum dots are very weakly coupled to their electrical leads e.g. through a large tunnel barrier and have an excited state spectrum with a large energy gap between the ground and next excited state. Such conditions are met for few electron quantum dots or single donors which are charge sensed and have either relative large tunnel coupling 8 ueV or large detuning also greater than approximately 8 ueV . Therefore during an initialization stage at least for a small number of the qubits a sufficiently large tunnel coupling can be established such that the qubits are in their ground state with very high fidelity p

Errors that may be of concern during evolution are those related to Landau Zener transitions due to too rapid evolution through small gap regions and excitations from the ground state to any higher excited state. The optimal evolution speed and path represents a challenge because it is dominated by the smallest gap region. Knowledge of the smallest gap is related to the knowledge of the solution to the problem represented by the Hamiltonian. A potential advantage of the semiconductor qubits is that the evolution path is made flexible through the ability to change the detuning both negative and positive symmetrically as well as independently tune the tunnel coupling. The independent tunability of such parameters differentiates the semiconductor qubits from conventional qubits and mitigates errors that may be caused by Landau Zener transitions.

Errors caused by excitations may occur through interactions with phonons or more complex interactions with fluctuating charge defects. Plasmons and other excitations also cannot be ruled out as potential sources of excitations. Silicon may be particularly well suited for forming the qubits because silicon does not have as strong a piezoelectric component and the interaction times can be slow depending on the gap energy . That is the probability of error can be small if the evolution through the smallest energy gap region is rapid compared to the phonon interaction time.

Charge fluctuations from defects in the material also can couple to a charge qubit and alternately produce excitations. An exemplary nano fabrication process flow has been developed for MOS charge qubits intended to minimize the effects in the system. Charge defects may further be avoided by building the charge qubits in enhance mode SiGe sSi gate stacks. Further STM assisted fabrication can be employed to tune the size of the double quantum dot electron number and strength of coupling with atomic precision. STM assisted fabrication has been shown to produce devices that have been measured with over an order of magnitude improvement in 1 f noise which is often associated with charge traps fluctuators.

Other procedures to suppress errors such as encoding and dynamical decoding are also possible paths towards extending the size of calculations attainable. Universal adiabatic quantum computing may require a broader hardware gate set for implementation. In particular ZX and XX interaction are desirable. Accordingly a ZX interaction can be obtained through capacitively coupling the electric dipole of one qubit to the tunnel barrier of another qubit. This can be constructed through STM assisted fabrication which allows devices to be engineered to the limit of precision. With reference to exemplary interactions are depicted including a ZZ interaction a ZZ interaction an XX interaction and an XZ interaction wherein the interactions are a function of location of the tunnel coupling between DQDs.

An overall layout of DQD qubits that are coupled by a non variable cross bar capacitance has been proposed in connection with circuit model quantum computing. It is to be understood however that the adiabatic quantum annealing approach described herein is much easier to implement in terms of electrical signal when compared to circuit model quantum computing. As little as one signal line can be slowly modified in time to modify the tunnel coupling to perform the computation assuming high uniformity from for example STM assisted fabrication with hydrogen lithography. The time for calculation can be approximately t E h Egap for a traversal of E in energy phase space. This is one necessary condition to have a high probability that the evolution stays in the ground state. Gap sizes of a small multi qubit system will be order of the coupling strength e.g. 100 ueV for non STM based structures which implies that relatively rapid single qubit adiabatic evolutions are possible e.g. much larger than 1 GHz . It can be noted that quantum algorithms are pursued because for certain calculations they are polynomial or exponentially more efficient than the best classical algorithms available. This implies that the speed of operation of single qubits does not need to be faster than classical transistor speeds in order to achieve extraordinary speed ups.

Several rules may be in place for hardware with respect to a QUBO problem with quantum annealing. With respect to encoding each qubit may have two eigenstates binary answers associated therewith which are non degenerate in nature. When a qubit is initialized for a particular optimization problem the qubit can start in a superposition between the two eigenstates wherein the superposition is the ground state of an initial Hamiltonian. Thus reference is again made to Eq. 1 . During the evolution process Hinitial can be slowly reduced and or Hcan be slowly increased. Eventually the system evolves to H for which the ground state is the solution and where H HH. During readout the state of each qubit is measured wherein in some embodiments the state must be measured prior to information being lost.

Referring to an exemplary charge qubit encoding for a QUBO problem is illustrated. Modulation of k and l circled in can be accomplished with voltages on gates e.g. as output by the control voltage source . Turning to initialization pertaining to the qubit is depicted.

With respect to data pertaining to evolution of a problem space is illustrated. Paths that trade off reduction of tunneling gap with increased detuning are desirable over straight paths. The increased tunability of charge qubits i.e. the increased orthogonality between the variables gamma h and J in the Hamiltonian relative to other adiabatic qubit choices is beneficial for making the optimized quantum annealing path available.

As references above the semiconductor qubits may also be singlet triplet m 1 spin qubits. Specifically spin degree of freedom for adiabatic quantum computing is an alternative to a charge qubit. Such approach has several advantages and disadvantages relative to the charge qubit. Advantages include 1 weaker coupling to environmental noise 2 better temporal coherence for system that include a relatively small number of qubits especially in the isotope enriched systems such as 28 Si 3 an existing experimentally demonstrated path towards higher fidelity non adiabatic operations that can be used for measurement outside of the Z eigenbasis 4 sufficient temporal coherence to potentially more easily examined time resolved tomography of the adiabatic state of each individual qubit and 5 slower dissipative relaxation mechanisms. Disadvantages of such approach relative to charge qubits include 1 the uncertain path towards achieving a large tunnel couple bandgap 2 slower evolution times because of small bandgap 3 challenging initialization state to produce 4 a smaller range of the de tuning or trade off for faster energy relaxation mechanisms and 5 increased difficulty of fabrication.

With reference to an exemplary methodology is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits are configured in accordance with a Hamiltonian. The Hamiltonian can represent an optimization problem that is desirably solved by way of a quantum computing apparatus. At the plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits are retained in a ground state including cases for which noise produced an excitation i.e. error but was self corrected through relaxation mechanisms inherent to the charge qubit. That is as noted above the qubits can be initialized in the ground state such that there is tunnel coupling and values of the qubits are superpositions of 0 and 1 . Subsequently the tunnel coupling barrier can be raised slowly e.g. thus inhibiting tunnel coupling thereby causing the qubits to have states that are collectively indicative of a solution to the optimization problem. At respective values in the plurality of semiconductor adiabatic qubits are read wherein such values are indicative of the solution to the optimization problem. The methodology completes at .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

