---

title: Bidirectional silicon carbide transient voltage supression devices
abstract: An electronic device includes a silicon carbide layer having a first conductivity type and having a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface, and first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes on the silicon carbide layer. Each of the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes may include a first heavily doped silicon carbide region having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide layer, and an ohmic contact on the first heavily doped silicon carbide region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09312256&OS=09312256&RS=09312256
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09312256
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130411
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 408 167 filed Mar. 20 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 04 2 0022 awarded by Army Research Laboratories. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to silicon carbide based devices. In particular the present invention relates to silicon carbide devices for transient voltage suppression.

A transient voltage suppressor or TVS is a device that is employed to reduce the effects of temporary overvoltage conditions in an electronic circuit. For example some TVS devices attenuate voltage spikes while other TVS devices are designed to divert excessive voltages to ground. A common device used for transient voltage suppression is a transient voltage suppression diode which is typically used for unidirectional or bidirectional electrostatic discharge protection of transmission or data lines in electronic circuits. TVS devices can also be used to protect against overvoltages being applied to the gate of a power MOSFET. An overvoltage on the gate of a MOSFET can damage or destroy the gate dielectric of the MOSFET potentially leading to device failure. A transient voltage suppression diode may be implemented simply using a Zener diode placed in parallel with a load that is to be protected.

A unidirectional TVS protects against overvoltages having a single positive or negative polarity while a bidirectional TVS protects against overvoltages having positive and or negative polarity.

Silicon carbide has been proposed as a possible material for transient voltage suppressors for low voltage applications such as protection of low voltage power lines. See e.g. K. V. Vassilevski et al. Low Voltage Silicon Carbide Zener Diode Materials Science Forum vols. 457 460 pp. 1029 1032 2004 . However as noted therein at voltages below 50 V the advantages of silicon carbide may be overshadowed by high contact and substrate resistivities. Furthermore the Zener diodes described in Vassilevski had a positive breakdown voltage temperature coefficient and were described as having mixed Zener and avalanche breakdown characteristics.

An electronic device according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide layer having a first conductivity type and having a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface and first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes on the silicon carbide layer. Each of the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes may include a first heavily doped silicon carbide region having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide layer and an ohmic contact on the first heavily doped silicon carbide region.

The silicon carbide layer may include a bulk silicon carbide substrate and or an epitaxial layer. The silicon carbide layer may have a thickness less than about 200 m and may have a doping concentration of about 5 10cmor more.

The first heavily doped silicon carbide region is p type with a doping concentration of about 5 10cmor more.

The first heavily doped silicon carbide regions may include first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers and each of the silicon carbide Zener diodes may further include a second heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer having the first conductivity type. The second heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer is between the silicon carbide layer and the first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer and forms a Zener junction with the first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer.

The second heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer may be n type with a doping concentration of about 1 10cmor more.

The electronic device may further include an ohmic contact layer on the silicon carbide layer opposite the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes.

At least one of the first heavily doped silicon carbide regions may have an increased doping concentration near the ohmic contact thereon.

The first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes may include mesas on the silicon carbide layer and the first heavily doped silicon carbide regions include first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers on the silicon carbide layer. The mesas may each have a cross sectional area of about 0.25 mmor more.

The silicon carbide layer may include a bulk silicon carbide substrate and the mesas may extend completely through the first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers and into the silicon carbide substrate.

The mesas may extend completely through the first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers and into but not completely through the silicon carbide layer. In some embodiments the mesas may extend completely through the first heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers and completely through the silicon carbide layer.

Each of the first and second Zener diodes may have a Zener breakdown voltage that is less than 20V. Furthermore each of the first and second Zener diodes may have a negative breakdown voltage temperature coefficient.

In some embodiments the first heavily doped silicon carbide regions include implanted regions in the silicon carbide layer.

Methods of forming an electronic device according to some embodiments include providing a first conductivity type silicon carbide substrate forming two silicon carbide Zener diodes on the silicon carbide substrate the silicon carbide substrate provides a common cathode for the silicon carbide Zener diodes forming first and second ohmic contacts on the mesas opposite the substrate and forming a third ohmic contact on the silicon carbide substrate.

Forming the two silicon carbide Zener diodes may include providing a second conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on the first conductivity type silicon carbide substrate and etching through the second conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer to form a pair of mesas that define respective Zener junctions.

The methods may further include providing a first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on the silicon carbide substrate. The second conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer may be formed on the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. Etching the second conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer to form the pair of mesas may include etching into the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer.

Etching the second conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer to form the pair of mesas may include etching through the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer into the silicon carbide substrate.

The methods may further include thinning the n type silicon carbide substrate to a thickness of less than about 200 m.

Forming the silicon carbide Zener diodes may include forming an implant mask including a pair of spaced apart openings on the silicon carbide substrate implanting second conductivity type ions through the implant mask and annealing the substrate to activate the implanted ions.

Forming the implant mask may include forming the implant mask on the substrate and implanting the second conductivity type ions may include implanting the second conductivity type ions into the substrate to form second conductivity regions in the substrate the second conductivity regions having a net doping concentration greater than about 5 10cmand forming Zener junctions with the substrate.

The methods may further include forming a first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on the substrate and forming the implant mask may include forming the implant mask on the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer implanting the second conductivity type ions may include implanting the second conductivity type ions into the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer to form second conductivity regions in the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. The second conductivity regions may have a net doping concentration greater than about 5 10cmand may form Zener junctions with the first conductivity type silicon carbide epitaxial layer.

An electronic device according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide layer having a first conductivity type and having a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes on the silicon carbide layer each of the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes may include a heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and first and second ohmic contacts respectively on the heavily doped silicon carbide epitaxial layers of the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes opposite the silicon carbide layer.

An electronic circuit according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET including a gate contact a drain contact and a source contact and a silicon carbide based bidirectional transient voltage suppressor TVS coupled between the gate and source contacts of the silicon carbide MOSFET the silicon carbide based TVS including a silicon carbide layer having a first conductivity type and having a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface and first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes on the silicon carbide layer each of the first and second silicon carbide Zener diodes may include a first heavily doped silicon carbide region having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide layer and an ohmic contact on the first heavily doped silicon carbide region.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Furthermore the various layers and regions illustrated in the figures are illustrated schematically. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the relative size and spacing illustrated in the accompanying figures. As will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art references herein to a layer formed on a substrate or other layer may refer to the layer formed directly on the substrate or other layer or on an intervening layer or layers formed on the substrate or other layer. Moreover it will be understood that when a first element or layer is described as in electrical contact with a second element or layer the first and second elements or layers need not be in direct physical contact with one another but may be connected by intervening conductive elements or layers which permit current flow between the first and second elements or layers.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As noted above transient voltage suppression TVS devices protect electronic circuits against overvoltage conditions. However conventional TVS devices may not be well suited for use in connection with silicon carbide based electronic devices.

Silicon carbide SiC has been known for many years to have excellent physical and electronic properties which should theoretically allow production of electronic devices that can operate at higher temperatures higher power and higher frequency than devices produced from silicon Si or GaAs. The high electric breakdown field of about 4 10V cm high saturated electron drift velocity of about 2.0 10cm sec and high thermal conductivity of about 4.9 W cm K indicate that SiC would be suitable for high frequency high power applications. However SiC has not generally been considered ideal for use in a TVS device because of the relatively high drift resistance of SiC which can increase the Zener impedance of a Zener diode based TVS device. Zener impedance is the differential resistance of a Zener diode based TVS device after the onset of current conduction. For better performance of the TVS device it is desirable to reduce the Zener impedance of the device.

Conventional silicon TVS devices are limited in the range of voltages they can handle due to the small bandgap of silicon. Thus to provide for 15 20 Volts of protection which may be required for example for protecting the gate of a silicon carbide based MOSFET it may be necessary to connect several silicon based devices in series which can increase circuit complexity and fabrication expense. Furthermore silicon based TVS devices may be unable to withstand the high operating temperatures at which silicon carbide based devices can operate. For example silicon based TVS devices typically have a maximum junction temperature of 185 C. In contrast the operating temperature of a 4H SiC MOSFET device can exceed 200 C. Thus a circuit design must take into account the temperature limitations of a silicon based TVS device so that the maximum operating temperature of the TVS device is not exceeded. However it is generally preferable to place a TVS device as physically close to the device that it is protecting as possible.

Some embodiments of the invention provide silicon carbide based transient voltage suppression devices using silicon carbide. In particular some embodiments provide bidirectional silicon carbide based TVS devices having reduced Zener impedance.

Referring to a silicon carbide based bidirectional transient voltage suppressor TVS is illustrated. is a schematic equivalent circuit of the TVS . Referring to the TVS includes an n substrate on which a pair of silicon carbide Zener diodes A B are provided. The n substrate can include 4H SiC although other polytypes of SiC such as 6H 3C or 15R can be used. In some embodiments the substrate may include bulk silicon carbide. However in other embodiments the substrate can include epitaxial silicon carbide.

The Zener diodes A B may be provided in the form of mesas as illustrated in . Alternatively the Zener diodes A B can be isolated by other methods such as implant isolation. The Zener diodes A B include respective n layers A B in contact with the substrate and p layers A B forming respective Zener junctions A B with the n layers A B. The p layers A B are separated from the substrate by the respective n layers A B.

The n layers A B may have a thickness of about 1 m while the p layers A B may have a thickness of about 1.5 m.

The Zener junctions A B may have respective areas of about 2500 mor more. In particular embodiments the Zener junctions A B may have dimensions of 500 m 500 m corresponding to areas of about 250 000 m. A Zener junction A B according to some embodiments may be capable of handling a current density greater than 1000 A cm. Accordingly a TVS according to some embodiments may be capable of handling currents of up to 2.6 A or more depending on the area of the Zener junctions A B. Furthermore a Zener junction A B according to some embodiments may have a Zener breakdown voltage Vbetween 15V and 20V.

Zener diode operation is based on Zener breakdown which is a phenomenon that can occur across a junction between highly doped p and n type semiconductor layers. In Zener breakdown when a heavily doped junction is reverse biased with a sufficient voltage the energy barrier separating mobile carriers in one layer from empty states in the other layer becomes very narrow permitting carriers to tunnel through the barrier and into the empty states which results in current flow through the reverse biased junction. Such breakdown may occur in a controlled manner that does not damage the junction. It is therefore desirable for a transient voltage suppression device to utilize Zener breakdown for reverse bias conduction. Zener breakdown tends to occur at lower absolute voltages when the operating temperature of the device is elevated. Accordingly a Zener diode may be characterized by having a negative temperature coefficient in breakdown voltage.

The n layers A B may include 4H SiC grown epitaxially on the substrate and doped with n type dopants such as nitrogen at a concentration of about 1 10cmor more. In some embodiments the n layers A B may have a doping concentration of 5 10cmor greater and in some embodiments may have a doping concentration of 2 10cm.

The p layers A B may include 4H SiC grown epitaxially on the respective n layers A B and doped with p type dopants such as aluminum and or boron at a concentration of about 1 10cmor more. In some embodiments the p layers A B may have a doping concentration of 5 10cmor greater and in some embodiments may have a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. In some embodiments the p layers A B may have a higher doping concentration near an ohmic contact A B formed thereon. For example the p layers A B may have doping concentrations of 1 10cmnear the ohmic contacts A B and the doping concentrations may decrease to 5 10cmfor the remainder of the layers closer to the junctions A B.

The doping of the n layers A B and the p layers A B may determine the breakdown voltages of the respective Zener diodes A B.

Respective ohmic contacts A B are formed on the p layers A B opposite the n layers A B. Furthermore an ohmic contact is formed on the substrate opposite the Zener diodes A B. A backside metallization including for example a Ti TiW Au structure can be formed on the substrate . A reference contact can be made to the TVS through the backside metallization .

The resistance of the substrate which contributes to the Zener impedance of the TVS is represented in by the resistances A B. To reduce the Zener impedance of the TVS the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of less than about 400 m. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of less than 200 m. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of less than 100 m and in some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of 10 m. The substrate can be thinned for example by mechanical polishing grinding etching and or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned prior to formation of the ohmic contact thereon.

Further embodiments are illustrated in . As illustrated in in some embodiments the Zener diodes A B may include mesas that extend through the n layers A B and partially into the substrate . Referring to in some embodiments the mesas may extend into but not through an n layer in which the n layers A B are defined.

Further embodiments are illustrated in . As shown therein separate n layers s can be omitted and the Zener junctions A B can be formed directly between the p layers A B and the substrate . Furthermore as shown in the Zener diodes A B can be formed as mesas that extend completely through the p layers A B and into the substrate .

An exemplary application of a silicon carbide based TVS is illustrated in the schematic circuit diagram of . As shown therein a TVS according to some embodiments can be connected in parallel with a gate contact G of a silicon carbide MOSFET . An input signal is applied to the SiC MOSFET by an input drive unit having an input resistance . If the voltage applied by the input drive unit experiences a voltage spike TVS starts to conduct and the energy of the spike is dissipated through the TVS bypassing the sensitive gate of the MOSFET . In particular a single TVS according to some embodiments can clamp the input voltage level of the MOSFET to 18V. Furthermore because the TVS can operate at elevated temperatures the TVS can be mounted and or formed very close to the MOSFET . The TVS can therefore provide a substantial improvement of reliability of power systems and power MOSFETs operating at high junction temperatures and or high ambient temperatures. In some embodiments the TVS and the MOSFET can be integrated onto a common substrate.

The n epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 1 m and may be doped with n type dopants such as nitrogen at a concentration of about 5 10cmor more. In some embodiments the n epitaxial layer may have a doping concentration of 1 10cmor greater and in some embodiments may have a doping concentration of 2 10cm.

The p epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 1.5 m and may be doped with p type dopants such as aluminum or boron at a concentration of about 1 10cmor more. In some embodiments the p epitaxial layer may have a doping concentration of 5 10cmor greater and in some embodiments may have a doping concentration of 1 10cm. The doping of the p epitaxial layer may be increased near a surface of the p epitaxial layer opposite the n epitaxial layer . For example the p epitaxial layer may have a doping concentration of 5 10cmat the junction with the n epitaxial layer and the doping concentration may increase to 1 10cmnear the surface of the p epitaxial layer opposite the n epitaxial layer .

Referring to an etch mask which may comprise aluminum may be formed on the p type epitaxial layer . The p type epitaxial layer and the n type epitaxial layer are then anisotropically etched to form mesas including n type layers A B and p type layers A B that respectively define Zener diodes A B. Anisotropic etching of silicon carbide is well known in the art and can be performed for example by dry etching the silicon carbide with a fluorine chemistry using an inductively coupled plasma ICP or reactive ion etch. The Zener diodes A B can have junction areas of about 2500 mto about 250 000 mor more.

Referring to ohmic contacts A B are formed on the p type layers A B respectively. The ohmic contacts A B may comprise for example nickel or nickel aluminum and may be annealed at a temperature of 775 C. for two minutes. Formation of low resistance ohmic contacts to heavily doped silicon carbide layers is well known in the art.

Following mesa formation a carrier substrate not shown may be affixed to the structure and the substrate A may be thinned to form a thinned substrate . The carrier substrate may include a rigid material such as silicon alumina sapphire etc. and may be affixed using for example an adhesive film. The substrate A may be thinned to form a substrate having a thickness of less than about 400 m. In some embodiments the substrate can have a thickness of less than 200 m. In some embodiments the substrate can have a thickness of less than 100 m and in some embodiments the substrate can have a thickness of 10 m. Thinning of the substrate may be performed for example by etching and or mechanically grinding polishing or lapping the substrate until it has the desired thickness. A backside ohmic contact may then be formed for example via laser annealing as described in U.S. Publication No. 2008 0311736 Dec. 18 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Finally referring to a backside metallization may be formed on the substrate . The backside metallization may include for example a multilayer structure of Ti TiW Au including 1000 of Ti 1000 of TiW and 10 000 of Au. The backside metallization can be formed on the substrate by sputtering for example. The TVS device may be conductively mounted for example to a metal submount or metal can using the backside metallization .

An implant mask including a pair of openings A B is formed on the silicon carbide layer and p type dopants such as aluminum are selectively implanted into the silicon carbide layer to form p regions A B.

The p regions A B may be implanted with sufficient p type dopants to cause the p regions A B to form Zener junctions A B with the n silicon carbide layer thereby defining respective Zener diodes A B. In particular the p regions A B may be doped to have a net p type dopant concentration of 1 10cmor more. In some embodiments the p regions A B may have a net p type doping concentration of 5 10cmor greater and in some embodiments may have a net p type doping concentration of about 1 10cm.

Suitable doping profiles can be obtained by implanting aluminum ions into a 4H SiC layer according to one or more of the implant schedules shown in Tables 1 and 2 below. Table 1 describes an implant schedule for obtaining a box profile of aluminum ions in 4H SiC having a doping concentration of about 1 10cm while Table 2 describes an implant schedule for obtaining a box profile of aluminum ions in 4H SiC having a doping concentration of about 5 10cm.

Implantation may be performed at an elevated temperature such as about 650 C. to improve crystal quality. Following implantation an activation anneal is performed in non oxidizing ambient such as argon at a temperature of about 1500 C. to about 2200 C. for a duration of 1 min to 1 hours. In some embodiments the implants can be annealed at a temperature of 1650 C. for 5 30 min.

In some cases Zener characteristics may be obtained once the p type doping concentration exceeds about 5 10cm i.e. 5 the implant schedule shown in Table 1 . The resulting structure may be have a very thin intrinsic i layer between the p regions A B and the silicon carbide layer and therefore may exhibit a mix of avalanche and Zener breakdown characteristics. The device may still function effectively as a transient voltage suppressor however.

Referring to after implantation and activation of the p type regions A B respective ohmic contacts A B are formed on the p regions A B. Furthermore an ohmic contact is formed on the silicon carbide layer and or the substrate opposite the p regions A B. A backside metallization including for example a Ti TiW Au structure can be formed on the ohmic contact .

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer and or the substrate can have a thickness of less than about 400 m. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of less than 200 m. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of less than 100 m and in some embodiments the substrate can be thinned to a thickness of 10 m. The substrate can be thinned for example by mechanical polishing grinding etching and or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the substrate can be thinned prior to formation of the ohmic contact thereon.

Embodiments of the invention have been set forth in the drawings and specification and although specific terms have been employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being defined in the claims.

