---

title: Arrangement and method for anonymous user profiling and targeted content provision
abstract: An electronic arrangement includes a computer device that provides a media profile entity configured to store and maintain at least one user-adjustable personal media profile for a user capable of accessing a network, and related sites, services and/or applications via a number of terminal devices, the personal media profile describing the user's interests preferably excluding identifiable information, the interests being represented on a number of levels including interest categories, and the interests are at least partially determined based on monitoring the user behavior relative to the network, and an authentication entity configured to associate a terminal utilized by the user with the media profile of the user based on profile-identifying data provided to/by the terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094414&OS=09094414&RS=09094414
owner: GLOME OY
number: 09094414
owner_city: Helsinki
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130823
---
The present invention relates generally to computer and communication systems. In particular however not exclusively the invention pertains to network services and applications user profiling tracking content provision and related communication.

During the past few years online privacy has emerged as a trending topic that has raised remarkable concern amongst online users. Until recently many users have sincerely believed that the interaction on the internet was taking place under full anonymity.

Now the web World Wide Web WWW users are finally becoming aware of the fact that a myriad of various entities e.g. advertising companies are more or less secretly or behind the curtains following their internet behavior including web surfing and also gathering related personal information whenever possible. As marketing clutter has on the other hand made traditional broadcast type generic marketing in many cases rather ineffective more sophisticated tracing of user interests and habits has been considered necessary for catching the suitable audience for better targeted ads or other optionally commercial information.

Indeed numerous web sites have been adapted to track visitors through different online tracking technologies such as web bugs and cookies which are able to trace store and forward information about the users online activity such as visited pages and performed clicks or other actions. And not only the operating party behind the web site visited but also third party entities have implemented more general tracking technologies for gathering private and often sensitive information about the users visiting the web sites that have been supplied with user tracking means. Such information which may even contain name address data e mail browsing history search terms results etc. may be then ruthlessly capitalized for different marketing purposes such as provision of targeted advertising including unsolicited e mails also known as spamming and e.g. various pop up or web page integrated but dynamically changing ads which the users often consider annoying.

As a countermeasure this situation has led to the development of different kinds of ad blockers i.e. content filtering software tools. Nevertheless the problem with most ad blockers is that the user simply by activating the ad block functionality basically prevents all the present tracking means from gathering information whereupon even the companies that may really attract and benefit the user are not able to targetedly approach the user anymore. As a potential further feature though the user might be enabled to choose which tracking means are allowed to obtain data through the user interface of the particular ad block application in use but then again the user may need to know which company is using which tracking means and at the same time many tracking means may be used simultaneously by several companies and the user may not want to share information with all of them whereupon the such manual tailoring turns out easily extremely challenging or practically impossible at least with currently available tools. Additionally many users just don t feel comfortable with sharing any private information but still want to interact with different service providers.

The objective is to at least alleviate one or more problems described hereinabove not yet satisfactorily solved by the known arrangements and to provide a feasible solution for anonymous user controllable information sharing and online profiling and a related means for third party entities to approach online users with content.

The aforesaid objective is achieved by the embodiments of an arrangement a method and a number of entities in accordance with the present invention. The presented solution may be applied for establishing and maintaining secure anonymous user profiles towards a number of remote applications and services e.g. web sites and offering targeted content without storing or only with limited user controlled storage of user identifying elements. The accessed web sites and various other target entities may be prevented from obtaining identifiable information about the user.

Accordingly in one aspect of the present invention an electronic arrangement preferably including at least one network server optionally provided in a cloud environment and one or more client devices like computers or mobile terminals comprises

The arrangement may comprise a terminal application such as a web browser extension add on or a dedicated application in addition to a preferred remote service entity optionally operated by a plurality of servers potentially in a cloud environment as mentioned above. Status active passive etc. of the application may be visually indicated e.g. as an icon on the browser tool bar. The terminal application may exchange data with the remote service entity for profiling authentication and or media control provision purposes. Optionally the terminal application may be configured to obtain predetermined local data such as sensor data or data indicative of local application usage at the terminal and forward it to the service entity. Preferably the media profiles and related information such as user preferences are long term stored and e.g. at least computationally more exhaustive behavior analysis profiling and or notification logic located at the remote service entity.

In one embodiment the data exchange between a user terminal and a web site or other remote third party service application entity is at least partially performed utilizing an intermediate preferably service application specific entity such as a virtual profile entity and or proxy to anonymize the user towards such remote entity. The intermediate entity being at least a logical entity may be hosted by the arrangement and be dynamically established e.g. upon accessing the site service for the first time. It may expire on session basis or based on an expiration condition such as expiration time e.g. day week or month since a reference instant such as the creation thereof or last access. The exchanged data may indicate user behavior and or interests. Additionally or alternatively data transfer between the terminal and server s of the arrangement itself may take place via at least logical intermediate entity such as a proxy.

In another either supplementary or alternative embodiment a notification of a content suggestion may indicate at least one element selected from the group consisting of product information service information a link to a service a link to a web site advertisement offer event internet event and real life event such as a fair sports event or a concert.

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the applied categorization follows or includes at least part of a predetermined classification of economic activity optionally North American Standard Industrial Classification System NAICS .

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the authentication entity comprises logic such as terminal logic e.g. terminal software or portion thereof optionally browser software like browser add on for receiving data input such as code input as provided by the user via the UI user interface of the terminal and optionally transmitting it as such or in modified form to a remote node such as remote server belonging to the arrangement for linking the terminal with the media profile associated with the data. The terminal logic may be configured to store the data as such or in modified e.g. encrypted form for future use during subsequent dynamic linkage actions.

Optionally the terminal may further comprise local protection or authentication means on the UI terminal device level. Such authentication may be device specific and incorporate either hardware and or software solutions such as a device PIN access code login to computer or a third party authentication solution such as Browser ID Facebook authentication etc. The unanonymous authentication may comprise a fingerprint a retinal scan or some other biometrical data or a combination of said methods. This level of protection is preferably only for controlling the access to the terminal UI of the suggested solution and the related authentication data is not shown to or accessed by the arrangement and e.g. authentication entity thereof in order to protect the user s privacy in terms of user profiling and content provision.

Still in a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the arrangement may be configured to provide a service UI such as a web site through which a user may access his her personal media profile. Advantageously the user may visually inspect the profile data such as user interests automatically and or manually by the user himself herself associated with him her and preferably alter the data such as reduce the relevance of an interest category or increase the personal relevance of an interest category. The relevance may be indicated by a predetermined scheme such as a numerical range where higher number may imply more interest than a lower number towards the associated interest category. The numerical range may in some embodiments comprise also negative numbers expressing dislike. Further the numerical range may comprise non integer numbers. In some embodiments the user may independently switch the delivery of content and or user profiling on off per interest type such as interest category. Alternatively or additionally the arrangement may automatically switch interests on off based on profiling information.

Yet in a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment a multi level approach may be adopted by the arrangement for user interest modeling and tracking. For example a higher level may contain more general categories according to the adopted categorization scheme such as Automotive Travel Healthcare Financial Services Fashion Sports Computers Telecom and Entertainment. Each category may then include a number of more specific elements or tags more precisely indicating the interests falling under the category. For example in Automotive category elements such as Parts Maintenance Sale Purchase and different brands like BMW or Ford could be indicated. As with categories the tags could be associated with independent relevancy indicia. User interest data may be optionally shared between the users via the arrangement.

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the arrangement may be configured to maintain the user s personal media profile indicative of e.g. user interests updated through a number of automated tracking and related profiling tasks. At least one element may be selected for such tracking and profiling purpose from the group consisting of visited web sites pages activated links or other objects clicks utilized search criteria such as search terms messages written messages received ratings or votes given time used with a web site page time used with a service social contacts group memberships message senders and message recipients.

The arrangement may then on the basis of the tracked elements update the profile. For example data regarding the topic of visited web sites pages activated selected objects and the nature of provided feedback votes etc. may be analyzed according to predetermined logic such as applicable text analysis and classification logic and converted into user interest data hosted by the profile for example.

Yet in a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment a basic or default set of profile data elements may be determined that is initially available to third parties such as web sites and services. Optionally the user may adjust preferably web site or service specifically the information he she is willing to share with the particular third party entity in question. The arrangement may maintain web site service specific settings for the purpose.

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the arrangement is configured to control the visual representation of a notification such that it is shown e.g. as a window or other visually distinguishable entity such as a frame within a window substantially at a border area of a display window or other UI output device with dimensions occupying less than half preferably less than third more preferably less than fourth and most preferably less than fifth of the overall area available for data visualization within the display window further preferably for a limited time i.e. with automatic minimization even without explicit input by the user . Yet additionally or alternatively the notification is preferably located such that the active area e.g. the window relative to which the user is interacting with and or the area containing some information in contrast to e.g. blank areas are covered hidden by the notification as little as possible potentially remaining completely visible. Positioning the notification may have a dynamic aspect i.e. the location changes between the notifications or even regarding already visualized notification depending on the aforesaid conditions e.g. location of blank areas .

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment the notification may include an activable selectable element such as a link for accessing the suggested typically third party content such as web site page. The content may relate to an offer such as product or service offer deemed suitable according to the arrangement to the target user according to the profile information. Advantageously the operator of the arrangement has made deals with trustworthy affiliates advertisers third parties in order to provide profile based content suggestions.

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment profile data back up may be enabled by linking it to a third party authentication service such as bank or credit card service or a web service such as Browser ID Facebook connect or e.g. Twitter . Alternatively or additionally profile data may be backed up using hardware solutions such as memory stick or memory card.

In a further either supplementary or alternative embodiment accepting the content indicated by the notification such as visiting a suggested link and participating in a competition or event e.g. car test drive indicated by the linked web site page may be associated by the arrangement with a virtual reward such as money provided to the user profile in return. Further the reward may be optionally turned into real funds as described in further detail hereinlater.

In another aspect a method for user privacy preserving profiling and content provision to be performed by an electronic arrangement preferably including at least one network server and or a terminal device comprises

In one embodiment the terminal is dynamically associated with the media profile of the user upon receipt of profile identifying data from the terminal such as a numeric or alphanumeric optionally encrypted code said data preferably being substantially anonymous data.

The previously presented considerations concerning the various embodiments of the arrangement may be flexibly applied to the embodiments of the method mutatis mutandis as being appreciated by a skilled person.

The utility of the present invention arises from a plurality of issues depending on each particular embodiment. Firstly the web use are able to share their interests instead of identity e.g. name or e mail address with different services for obtaining optimized personalized user controlled service experience. A single user may establish multiple anonymous the level of anonymity may be controllable by the user profiles. Preferably however to secure the user s anonymity only one profile may be activated at any given time via a terminal device and the profiles may not be linked to each other by the arrangement.

Secondly targeted content such as product and or service offers may be provided to the profiled users by means of delicate undisturbing notifications that are visible on the terminal device UI and or audibly reproduced via a loudspeaker or buzzer beeper thereof for instance. The users may be associated with temporary intermediate elements with temporary e mail addresses via which external parties may then limitedly temporally limited for instance reach the user to provide the targeted content.

Further profiling may take place completely automatically based on monitored user behavior and or based on data received from external data sources typically services such as social networking services but the users may still preferably adapt and change the profile information via the associated service UI such as web UI and add new interests to their profiles or delete alter the existing ones among other potential profile maintenance tasks. For example in addition to or instead of more straightforward blocked unblocked or off on type switching of interests e.g. predetermined categories or more specific instances of interests such as brands or certain products services finer resolution preference adjustment may be made possible via e.g. user adjustable numerical value indicative of an interest s relative validity importance to the user.

The established and maintained updated profiles can be generally utilized like personal loyalty cards. The profile is a representation of the user s interest to third parties businesses services instances to gain benefits like personalized service better deals money or any other reward or any combinations thereof. As a result interaction between parties is on equal level and completely fair business as it should always be. The users are thus provided with an opt in way to receive personalized service and optionally save on the price of interesting apps services they may potentially purchase new apps services with reward funds obtained from accessing the suggested content while the different companies or other entities provided content to be notified to suitable users may enhance their business ethically.

No traditional sign in or sign up is mandatory to protect the user s identity. Terminal devices of a user may be dynamically connected to the desired profile by means of privacy preserving authentication data such as numeric code originally determined upon profile creation.

User profiling in general and the resulting profiles could be coarsely divided into who you are and what you are classes. The present invention implements what you are type of concept i.e. a description of one s interests without giving away identity. Each user may be thus considered as a media. Naturally the user may decide to voluntarily provide identity information such as name or e mail address to certain services such as services suggested to him her via notifications or other services he she is previously familiar with e.g. accredited financial services but the user still retains the ultimate control which parties he she trusts with his her identity. The solution provided herein may preferably be depending on the embodiment disabled by the user regarding the selected web sites services so that the user may access those without the arrangement s intervention or background monitoring.

The suggested solution may also be at least partially integrated with external services such as social media services such as Facebook and various other network services including UI level integration. Solution related UI elements may be added to the existing service UIs and necessary APIs may be constructed for data exchange. Client terminal side implementation of the logic for carrying out various embodiments of the present invention may be cleverly carried out by means of a browser extension or a dedicated terminal application regarding browser accessible web services or other online services accessed via dedicated client applications for instance respectively.

Additional benefits of different embodiments of the present invention will become clear to the reader on the basis of the following more detailed description.

The expression a number of refers herein to any positive integer starting from one 1 e.g. to one two or three.

The expressions a plurality of and multiple refer herein to any positive integer starting from two 2 e.g. to two three or four.

The numerals first and second are used herein to distinguish an element from another and not to prioritize or denote any particular order of the elements unless explicitly stated otherwise.

A skilled reader will further realize that the terms service and application may in many instances utilized interchangeably as obviously e.g. a network service may be implemented by a network connected application.

Preferably the constructed and maintained i.e. updated to remain substantially current profile is anonymous i.e. it characterizes and indicates the associated person s user s interests to enable tailored targeted content control and provision but omits personally identifiable information such as name or e mail.

The profile may indicate a plurality of higher level elements and or categories such as what you say what you do brands interested in you and or brands you like regarding the user in question.

 What you say may be naturally considered an important element regarding the objective of representing one s interests. What you do may indicate e.g. statistics of one s actions. Brands interested in you may include a representation of the profiles of the brands the user attracts. Brands you like may include a representation of the profiles of the brands the user would like to attract.

Interests may be described as or categorized into a number of collections like automotive and travel and within those collections as more distinctive or lower level items that may be called as tags such as BMW representing for example car brands and or models and Beach representing different aspects of travelling. These collections and or tags may be valued utilizing a predetermined numerical range such as a range extending from 0 to 10 implying e.g. extremely uninteresting or very interesting topics from the standpoint of the associated user respectively. The predetermined numerical range may in some embodiments comprise negative numbers wherein the negative numbers imply e.g. dislike. The predetermined numerical range may also in some embodiments comprise non integer values. One individual may in theory have an unlimited amount of profiles to choose from and use.

By the solution offered by the present invention the users may controllably share information regarding their interests to third parties businesses services instances in order to gain benefits like personalized service better deals money or any other reward or combination thereof in return. The profile data may be captured and generated automatically by the arrangement but adjusted tailored manually by the user when necessary.

Generally any of the users may utilize one or more client terminal devices in the context of the present invention for a number of reasons such as accessing a desired network service application such as a web site. Access may be generally realized using a web browser or a dedicated client application at the terminal . For example desktop or laptop computers and mobile terminals such as smartphones or tablets may be typically exploited for connecting optionally via a number of communication networks to an external target entity for obtaining needed information reading writing messages taking part in e commerce etc. Further more specific and or limited devices such as smart sun glasses memory e.g.USB sticks credit cards or e.g. car keys provided with integrated or at least functionally connected data transfer elements e.g. wireless transceivers or transmitters may be exploited for data provision as explained hereinafter. In addition to various other tasks the devices may be utilized in the context of the present invention for exchanging information with the arrangement for profiling and related uses.

Various devices and systems communicating with the arrangement such as devices may generally have session support where a session implies the time when the device is active and collecting data collecting comprises inputting data copying data transferring data and gathering data . The lifespan of a session may be set to start and to end within a timeframe and or the occurring of a predetermined event. The timeframe may be predetermined by the user max session length or it may be set upon activation from the device. Examples of terminating events are return of device push of a button geolocation change a command from a linked device linking action to another profile or any other predetermined event.

The arrangement may incorporate a computing entity such as a server or a plurality of servers optionally residing in a cloud for enabling flexible capacity allocation among other benefits. Optionally the arrangement may be considered to include the aforesaid terminal s or clients that may be adapted to run specific terminal side software application logic such as a web browser extension or other application that may communicate with server s via a number of communication networks such as the internet and e.g. cellular network upon need e.g. upon browser start up and or upon browsing actions e.g. accessing a web page . It may be configured to indicate to the server the intended taken terminal action s that the server may utilize for profiling other analysis ad content blocking and allowing and providing suggestions of potentially interesting content such as product offers from the standpoint of the concerned user.

Indeed tasks and functionalities may be allocated between the network side servers etc. and terminal s in different ways depending on each embodiment as understood by skilled persons. In some embodiments the terminal side may mostly act as a front end of the arrangement to the user taking care of data provision collection and transfer whereas the network server side deals with more complex and computationally potentially exhaustive modeling analysis content selection etc.

In some embodiments the network side server may control e.g. by means of a proxy most or substantially all web related traffic such as web page requests and replies thereto typically following HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol relative to the terminal i.e. the traffic is conveyed to the terminal via it and processed filtered when applicable. Preferably the magnitude of such control may be user adjusted e.g. web site or protocol specifically. In some other embodiments the traffic may be routed along standard paths and the arrangement controls the terminal side data transfer representation cooperatively with the terminal side application s .

The arrangement may at least logically be considered to include an authentication entity that advantageously enables substantially anonymous dynamic real time pairing of a terminal device to a profile. In other words the authentication procedure addresses a certain profile from a plurality of profiles for subsequent use with the device without necessarily requiring the user behind the profile and in control of the terminal to identify himself herself.

The authentication entity may exploit e.g. profile associated code initially allocated upon establishing the profile or changed afterwards via the UI of the arrangement for pointing out the profile to be activated. The user may provide the code or other profile identifying input via the UI e.g. touchscreen keyboard or keypad of the terminal 

The initial code for a new profile may be automatically created by a terminal application e.g. browser add on or dedicated application for example and associated with the profile to enable future addressing and thus accessing thereof.

In order to subsequently access the profile with a further terminal device the original terminal application storing the code may be preferably instructed to export it e.g. to a removable medium such as an USB stick or display it so as to enable linking the further terminal device with the same profile. In other words the exported displayed code may be utilized in the further terminal to access the previously created profile and e.g. related data.

A media profile entity may be configured to host the profiles for different users and update them based on the analysis of the received information web usage data from external services etc. .

In some embodiments the arrangement may be configured to import or export at least portion of a user profile to from an external service such as Facebook Twitter or Google . APIs such as Facebook Connect may be applied for implementing the associated data interfaces. Additionally or alternatively the service account media profile may be linked with external account s such as the aforementioned accounts to enable backups for instance.

A media control entity may be configured to provide tailored content suggestions on the basis of the profile information to generate statistics and receive data from external services regarding the content options. Yet the provision of content such as ads may be generally controlled such as filtered blocked regarding e.g. the web sites and pages the user visits in according to the profile information. Further online tracking may be controlled such as blocked by the media control entity . For instance different web bugs and or cookies may be disabled. Advantageously the user may adapt his her settings regarding blocking rules e.g. web site web page and or target entity e.g. bug or cookie specifically.

Therefore the suggested solution generally provides a way to pair multiple devices together to enrich the data that is associated with the profile. As alluded above the applicable client terminal devices may comprise mobile phones tablets computers consoles cameras and also non screen devices such as keys credit cards and USB sticks.

Conceptually one may also divide the devices roughly into two classes namely connectors and controllers. The devices with UIs supporting more versatile input e.g. keyboard touchscreen such as mobile phones computers tablets that allow the user to access and control his her profile may be used as controllers. With a controller one may switch between different profiles on the UI level one controller can be linked to many profiles but only one profile may preferably be active at any given time. These profiles may not be linked or connected together in any way although they can be alternately used on the same device for protecting the associated user s identity.

Devices such as TVs digital book readers and personal or non personal but more specific or limited use items like car keys or smart sunglasses that may be used for collecting and optionally displaying information could also be used as data collectors for the arrangement . Collectors may advantageously have only one linked profile associated with them at any given time. Collectors may be linked to a proxy and or other intermediate at least logical element that collects and prepares the data to be sent to the associated profile. Collectors are thus linked to the profile by the proxy. There may be one or more proxies for a collector.

Still reverting to as mentioned earlier the arrangement may be and typically is configured to communicate with external services applications such as web sites or other online services. The communication may take place through virtual profiles proxies and or other at least logically intermediate elements like with the afore explained collector devices so that the information sharing regarding the data contained in full user profile may be fully controlled. The virtual profiles may define the profile data that may be provided from the actual full profile to each particular external service . The virtual profiles may incorporate or be at least associated with temporary e mail addresses through which the external service may reach the related user. Such addresses and basically also the virtual profiles as such may be advantageously dynamically deleted based on e.g. predefined expiry time. Further data from a service to another may be transferred utilizing virtual profiles. For instance the user may decide the share the profile data associated with a certain service to another service and optionally vice versa. Data received from an external service may be exploited for profiling statistics content suggestions etc. The user may advantageously control the amount and nature of profile data that is shared with external services service specifically e.g. the user may define sharing rules for each external service default rules may be also be at least partially automatically determined by the arrangement .

In some embodiments the external service application may particularly refer to entertainment sector with reference to gaming. The arrangement may be configured to transfer profile data to from a game related service or application. The game application may utilize the received profile for automatically tailoring in game features such as the properties of a playable character and or shown visuals such as ads. Likewise the user actions relative to the game may be adapted to cultivate the profile hosted by the arrangement .

 Digital footprint may indicate a user s digital behavior by collecting data regarding browsing and usage data across devices linked to the same digital data wallet for instance. Likes and dislikes may include a representation of a user s opinions towards different media across a network typically the web which media may for example be a video photo blog website and or other media that a user may express his her opinion towards by simply clicking a like or dislike button. An entertainment profile may indicate a user s interests towards i.e. music and or TV programs. A geo profile on the other hand may indicate one s movement and location data. A sports profile may provide a representation of a user s activity and exercise customs whereas a shopping profile may indicate a user s shopping behavior.

Generally a multitude of different devices and related software programs are designed to gather digital user data. Hence by connecting a user media profile data wallet to such services applications rather exact profiling may be effectuated. Besides smart phones are equipped with different sensors and tracking means which are already utilized by i.e. different exercise applications by tracking the user s running pace distance etc.

A digital data wallet may also contain other beneficial user related data. For instance the data wallet may contain data indicating one s importance relevance towards a business content provider which data is preferably analyzed and evaluated on the basis of the user s activity e.g. acceptance of content suggestions which will be described in more detail herein later. The data wallet may also contain data indicating one s earnings arising from accepting content suggestions for instance. Furthermore the data wallet may contain data indicating which services applications and or devices are connected communicating to with the data wallet

Still reverting to a user profile data wallet may be configured to communicate with services applications via a web browser or generally terminal application. For example when a user communicates relative to a web site a temporary intermediate element may be configured to provide a controllable communication platform between the web site and the data wallet hence preventing the web site to access the data wallet automatically as a whole. The intermediate element may i.e. provide only selected user information to the web site by providing one or a cluster preferably not all of the category specific profiles from the data wallet depending on the web site in question and or a user s selections.

As another example when a user accesses a desired mobile application on his her mobile phone wherein the application may establish network connections transfer data etc. the data wallet is configured to communicate with the mobile application via another dedicated client mobile application specifically designed for the data wallet . Again preferably an intermediate element is configured to provide a communication platform between the mobile application and the data wallet hence preventing the mobile application to access the data wallet freely without any restrictions.

A data wallet may be configured to communicate with several services applications substantially simultaneously. The data wallet may be at the same time connected both to a web site s through a browser extension add on and a native mobile or generally terminal application s through a dedicated data wallet application. Preferably the media wallet is configured to communicate with different services applications via separate dedicated intermediate elements hence protecting the user s identity.

As one secure communication enabler the temporary intermediate element may also provide a preferably anonymous platform for the exchange of messages between the user and the service application that is often but not exclusively represented by a business. A temporary message platform may follow or resemble that of chat Twitter e mail and or basically any other applicable type of message exchange. In this sense for example the arrangement according to the invention may provide a platform for companies to carry out targeted marketing to customers without revealing the customer s identity. The arrangement according to the invention may provide a content provider business with temporary e mail addresses associated with users which are correspondingly linked with the user profiles in the data wallet . The e mail address works as or together with an intermediate element preventing the content provider business access the data wallet and hence protecting the user s customer s identity.

UI may refer to both local and remote UI for controlling the hardware of the server itself and or the executed software providing the media profiles and related features. Local UI may include e.g. a display or other data out put feedback device and mouse and keyboard for obtaining user input. Remote UI may be provided via a data transfer interface such as a network interface optionally Ethernet or other LAN Local Area Network interface that enables connecting to external network s including the internet so that the necessary communication with remote terminal devices and different external entities like services servers may conveniently be effectuated. For example a browser based UI with e.g. HTTP and HTML HyperText Markup Language roots among other options may be used. In some embodiments the arrangement is configured to provide a user with a home page or generally user account information web page or a plurality of related pages or other personal data contemplation and or management infrastructure.

The terminal device for accessing the service provided by the remaining arrangement generally includes corresponding elements such as processing entity memory entity at least one data transfer interface such as a cellular and or wired network e.g. Ethernet or other LAN interface software logic such as browser extension or stand alone application for connecting the remote server and UI that may optionally include e.g. a touchscreen as being common with mobile terminals such as so called smartphones and tablet computers at the time of writing.

Regarding the Front end web node represents e.g. a public web site server that may optionally be load balanced.

Item refers to preferably load balanced instances of the public APIs Application Programming Interface used e.g. by browser extensions and application developers.

Item refers to a number of preferably load balanced instances of public Authentication API service used by browser extensions and application developers. Switching over to the Backend block public collector nodes represent instances of different data collectors. Their main purpose is data collection from different services such as Twitter Facebook etc. Also there can be collectors which are given data straight through the public API calls.

Analyzation nodes are instances of different data analysis services often created to pair with collectors. These can also be run outside the main network cluster e.g. Amazon AWS Amazon Web Services for Hadoop clustering etc.

Storage nodes represent public storage and memory cluster e.g. database such as distributed Riak cluster and Redis instances.

Session management nodes are preferably load balanced instances of session management handlers. For instance Auth API may utilize these to hand out session keys identifiers etc.

Status Log nodes are preferably load balanced instances of the public platforms monitoring and logging instances. Their job can be to monitor services in the public backend and receive log files lines from different services.

Platform dashboard is the monitoring server that is publicly available to view e.g. the overall status of the service platform.

Inside MQ block MessageQueue nodes represent instances of MessageQueue service nodes. These are used to communicate between Public and Private backends. Also both public and private services can use these to do MQ between other services or themselves.

At the Backend private affiliate nodes represent the instances of different affiliate handlers. Their main purpose is data collection and handling from different affiliate networks. They can also provide web interfaces for managing the data.

The payment nodes provide a preferably load balanced service for payment handling advantageously also managing the users service internal wallets and their history.

UserAd ref. nodes provide a service which keeps track of which ad to show and holds a history of ads displayed and their corresponding actions taken by the user.

Storage nodes represent the private storage and memory cluster such as Riak cluster and Redis instances.

Status Log nodes are preferably load balanced instances of the private platforms monitoring and logging instances. Their main job is to monitor services in the private backend and receive log files lines from different services. These may also receive information from public Status Log service.

Platform dashboard is the monitoring server used by the operator of the profile service arrangement to track the status of the platform.

Accordingly the user may easily react to the notification by selecting the icons buttons embedded therein but the notification does not disturb the user. Preferably the notification will automatically disappear e.g. after a predetermined period in case of no associated user actions indicative of positive interest towards the notification e.g. pointer hovering above it are detected. Rejecting the content proposal may cause the notification to disappear immediately and related information to be transferred in the background either right away or in a delayed fashion to the remote arrangement for analysis and profiling purposes. Accepting the proposal may instruct the terminal application such as browser to access the content such as the web site of the content provider e.g. advertiser. The related icon may be thus associated with a link to access the suggested content in addition to other actions.

At a terminal device such as a computer smartphone tablet or more unconventional terminal device such as smart sunglasses or key as explained hereinbefore is connected authenticated to the remote arrangement. The terminal may be associated dynamically with a new or existing media profile of the user of the terminal by means of profile identifying data provided to the arrangement. Association may take place upon receipt of said profile identifying but preferably user identity protecting anonymous data from the terminal such as a numeric or alphanumeric optionally encrypted code. The code or other media profile identifying data may be transferred utilizing a terminal side application such as browser extension application.

At the adjustable personal media profile is established or updated. The personal media profile describes the user s interests preferably excluding identifiable information optionally name and or e mail wherein the interests are represented on a number of levels including interest categories such as automotive or travel categories and further wherein the interests are at least partially determined based on monitoring the user behavior relative to the web.

At while the user is acting on the web such as performing surfing accessing e.g. web pages online tracking and content provision such as ad playback is controlled in accordance with the personal media profile and the user may be provided with notifications indicative of content suggestions conforming to the personal media profile. When the user accesses various online services personal media profile data is selectively preferably user controllably transferred between the personal media profile and the online service to exchange user interests describing data between these such that the service lacks direct access to the full personal media profile of the user unless the user desires otherwise in which case the user may optionally allow full profile data to be transferred to the external entity .

As being indicated in the figure by the dotted feedback arrows the execution of method items may be repeated. For example different actions on the web by the user may cause performing intermittent updates to the media profile or a different terminal may be connected to the profile. Also the mutual ordering of the shown items may be varied as naturally after establishing a profile with a first terminal a second terminal may be connected thereto however preferably not for simultaneous access of the same profile as explained herein for preserving the user identity .

At the user is provided with a content suggestion such as suggestion to see an ad. The user is willing to follow the lead and reacts accordingly e.g. selects an icon I want to see the content on the UI .

At the arrangement offering the media profiling and content provision service in accordance with the present invention informs affiliate network tracker s about the event and the user is forwarded to the target business content provider environment where the user is provided with the content etc.

Based on a successful content provision the business provides a commission or reward to the affiliate network at and the affiliate network provides a share to the operator of the service provided by the arrangement at .

At checkout the arrangement receives the payment and leaves an agreed share such as 50 to the service operator account and the remaining 50 to the particular user s account .

The user account is where the funds rewards are typically stored for the user until e.g. one of the following criteria is met 

In the service UI a dedicated portion such as my rewards type of a web page may be provided to enable inspecting the virtual funds wallet and execute related actions such as withdrawal or more generally recovery of the reward. As noted herein earlier in app purchases using the virtual funds may be possible.

2. The money is transferred from the user account and paid to the chosen location transaction fees may be subtracted from the user .

Alternatively the user may use the rewards in his her user account to obtain new services apps access to content etc. directly thus potentially skipping additional costs such as VAT Value Added Tax when legally applicable.

To protect the user s identity during financial transactions and e.g. withdrawal of funds an accredited third party service may be utilized. In case of legal requirements to prevent money laundry etc. necessitating disclosing true identity of transaction parties the user could thus only identify himself herself to the third party service under heavy scrutiny instead of the overall media profiling arrangement.

At method start up item may imply e.g. a marketing decision by an external entity such as a business content provider. At this stage the business may decide the number and or nature of users they want to reach for instance. The nature may be defined explicitly and or by means of implicit criteria through characterization of the content to be delivered product to be marketed etc.

At a query on a user register is forwarded to the arrangement offering the user profiling profile management and content provision service in accordance with the present invention. Indeed e.g. a business typically wants to reach users customers that are interested in their business and related services products. The arrangement according to the present invention provides accurate user profiling in accordance with the explicit and or implicit criteria preferably provided by the business which may then obviously help finding the most potential users customers for the business.

At the arrangement determines the most potential users and provides the external entity such as business with related register data which may contain preferably anonymous contact information such as temporary e mail addresses and or other applicable communication message exchange channel described earlier. The business makes a payment on the received register of which the service provider may collect e.g. 50 and the targeted users may share the remaining amount among other numerous possible income sharing policies.

At the business contacts the users customers via received contact information such as temporary e mail addresses and or other identifiers managed by the arrangement. Alternatively or additionally the arrangement may contact the users in accordance with the criteria and optional other conditions set by the business preferably already in the query.

At and a user customer receives a notification on the suggested content e.g. via a web browser or native media profile wallet application.

At the user accepts the content suggestion and is therefore provided with the content from the business such as an advertisement. At the customer declines the suggested content and will therefore not be provided with content from the business. The arrangement provides accurate and dynamically evolving user profiling which becomes even more accurate over time when a user interacts with data services and more input data for profiling is thus gathered which may also generally decrease the rejection rate for content suggestions. The arrangement may therefore provide a sophisticated tool for content providers businesses to find customers interested in their business.

At user customer value towards a business content provider is evaluated. Analyzing algorithms will assess the user s behavior and update the user s rating and or profile. As an illustrating example when a user accepts a content suggestion as in his her rating improves and or profile adapts relative to the suggested content and when declining on a content suggestion as in the rating degrades and or profile again adapts relative to the suggested content. Data software may provide far more complex analyzing algorithms which may take into account the consistency of a user s behavior such as content approvals and declines towards businesses content providers which will be understood by a skilled person and therefore improving the rating on most valuable users customers. A general rating may be provided for each user. The general rating may reflect the consistency of his her reactions towards content and or related activity passivity reacts does not generally react to any content suggestions .

The user customer evaluation at may also be utilized to benefit users. The payment or generally incentive amount e.g. 50 of the total payment shared amongst the users may be divided on the basis of user ratings following e.g. a Gaussian curve distribution. The arrangement according to the invention may thus provide a fairer bonus system which may enhance activity amongst users hence leading to greater content suggestion approval percentage.

The dotted feedback arrow in indicates the potentially recurring nature of the procedure. When the arrangement receives a new query as in the arrangement may provide a register with up to date contact information representing the most valuable customers according to the prevailing situation profiles ratings etc. .

The scope of the invention is determined by the attached claims together with the equivalents thereof. The skilled persons will again appreciate the fact that the disclosed embodiments were constructed for illustrative purposes only and the innovative fulcrum reviewed herein will cover further embodiments embodiment combinations variations and equivalents that better suit each particular use case of the invention. For instance in some embodiments a user may in addition to accepting content offers obtain funds or receive new rewards among other incentives at the media profile account by providing product service suggestions to his her contacts and thus indirectly act as an amateur sales representative. For example a user that considers himself an expert on mountain bikes may provide data i.e. a user initiated content suggestion regarding a nice bike to his contact via the arrangement of the present invention. In case the contact accepts the content suggestion the content provider may issue a commission to the user. The content suggestion may be thus addressed to another media profile registered or outside the service operated by the arrangement e.g. via e mail or SMS Short Message Service MMS Multimedia Messaging Service messaging for example optionally incorporating a link forwarding the recipient to the content provider s business environment such as a web site and preferably identifying the suggesting user.

Further in some embodiments the present solution could be utilized for everyday and substantially real time financial transactions in which the terminal associated with a media profile and related virtual money wallet reward repository could be somewhat seamlessly applied to trigger a payment towards the recipient s account. The terminal could apply e.g. a wireless identification means such as an NFC Near Field Communication reader or transceiver to obtain payment instructions recipient account details sum reference code etc. from a nearby compatible device such as NFC transceiver provided cash register or other payment equipment at a grocery store whereupon the terminal could forward the instructions to the network aspect of the arrangement in accordance with the present invention for continuing the payment procedure optionally via an external payment service. The store could then monitor the payment account status in real time fashion and acknowledge the payment when becoming visible.

Still in some embodiments the logical entities of the presented arrangement such as the media profile authentication and media control entities may be substantially realized or hosted by one device such as a terminal device or a network server alone or by a combination of multiple devices such as at least one network server or other corresponding network entity and a terminal device communicating therewith. A device belonging to the arrangement may implement a portion of the media profile entity authentication entity and or media control entity such that at least one further device implements the remaining portions. Alternatively several devices could be configured to implement at least partially overlapping entities and related functionalities e.g. for load balancing and or elevating system reliability.

