---

title: Compounds for modulating RNA binding proteins and uses therefor
abstract: The invention relates to compositions and methods for inhibiting RNA binding proteins (e.g., MEX-3, MEX-5 and POS-1), as well as methods for treating and preventing disorders associated with parasitic infections and inflammatory disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08962244&OS=08962244&RS=08962244
owner: University of Massachusetts
number: 08962244
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130108
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 823 902 filed Jun. 25 2010 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 220 985 filed Jun. 26 2009. The entire contents of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant no. NS059380 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application incorporates by reference the ASCII text file identified by the name SequenceListing.txt containing 1.49 KB of data created on Nov. 12 2010 and filed in computer readable format CRF .

According to the World Health Organization WHO more than one third of the world s population approximately 2 billion people is infested with helminths. In 1999 the WHO estimated that schistosomiasis and soil based helminths represented more than 40 of the disease burden due to all tropical disease excluding malaria. While most parasitic infestations are preventable and treatable the effects of an infestation can be chronic and long term and may eventually cause death. For example a person who has endured persistent and heavy infestations is likely to suffer from anemia malnutrition and chronic irreversible diseases such as liver fibrosis cancer of the bladder and kidney failure. These parasites also affect livestock which can facilitate infestation in humans by causing contamination via soil or food supplies.

In addition to the health risk posed to humans by parasites plants are highly susceptible to parasitic infestations. Effects of nematode damage to plants include stunting chlorosis nutrient deficiencies wilting root abnormalities and reduced yield.

While there are a number of antihelminthic treatments currently available some scientists are concerned that the parasites will develop resistance to these treatments especially in developing countries where people are repeatedly infected with helminths and receive multiple doses of antihelminthic drugs. In fact resistance to antihelminthic drugs has been observed in livestock due to frequent and repeated treatments. Moreover rates of re infection by helminths are very high due to the number and the durability of infective eggs on surfaces and in soil. While infection is active some parasitic nematode species e.g. release an estimated 100 000 new embryos per adult female per day. Currently available anti helminthics work by paralyzing the infectious nematode through blocking ion channels and receptors and do not inactivate the embryos that cause re infection. Therefore it is advantageous to develop new therapies for the treatment and prevention of parasitic infestations and in particular therapies that limit the possibility of parasitic re infection in both plants and animals 

The present invention is based at least in part on the development and use of screening assays to identify compounds that inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1 RNA binding proteins which are required for early embryogenesis in parasitic worms. The identified compounds represent a novel class of anti parasitic agents that specifically target parasitic worm embryos.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention pertains at least in part to method for treating or preventing a parasitic associated state in a subject comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the parasitic associated state is treated or prevented. In one embodiment the parasitic associated state is a parasitic infestation or re infestation. In another embodiment the parasitic associated state is a disease caused by a parasitic infestation.

In one embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for treating or preventing a parasitic infestation in a subject infested with or at risk for infestation with parasites by administering to the subject a therapeutically or pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the parasitic infestation is treated or prevented.

In another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for protection of plants from a parasitic infestation by administering to the plants a pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the plants are protected.

In yet another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for inhibiting parasitic embryogenesis in a parasite or in a subject suffering from a parasitic infection by administering to the parasite or subject suffering from the parasitic infection a therapeutically or pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that embryogenesis is inhibited.

In a further embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for reducing parasitic burden in soil in plants or in an animal suffering from a parasitic infection by administering to the soil plants or animal a therapeutically or pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the parasitic burden is reduced.

In another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for treating or preventing a disease caused by a parasitic infestation in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the disease is treated or prevented.

In one embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for treating or preventing an inflammatory disorder in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the inflammatory disorder is treated.

In one embodiment the subject is a plant. In one embodiment the subject is an animal. In one embodiment the subject is a human.

In one embodiment the parasite is present in a subject. In one embodiment the parasite is a helminth e.g. a cestode a trematode and a nematode. In one embodiment the helminth is a nematode.

In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory protein modulates the RNA binding activity of an RNA binding protein. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is required for embryogenesis. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein comprises a CCCH zinc finger motif. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein comprises a KH domain. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is selected from the group consisting of MEX 5 POS 1 and MEX 3 or a homolog thereof. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is MEX 5 or a homolog thereof. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is MEX 3 or a homolog thereof. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is POS 1 or a homolog thereof.

In another aspect the invention pertains at least in part to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the invention pertains at least in a part to a composition comprising a pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 and an agronomically acceptable carrier.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides methods of identifying a compound useful in modulating a biological activity of an RNA binding protein. The methods include providing an indicator composition comprising an RNA binding protein and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element contacting the indicator composition with each member of a library of test compounds determining the effect of the compound on a biological activity of the RNA binding protein and selecting a compound that modulates the biological activity of the RNA binding protein as compared to an appropriate control thereby identifying a compound useful in modulating a biological activity of an RNA binding protein.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of identifying a compound useful in modulating a biological activity of an RNA binding protein. The methods include providing an indicator composition comprising an RNA binding protein and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element contacting the indicator composition with each member of a library of test compounds under conditions which allow binding of the RNA binding protein to the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element to form a complex and detecting the formation of a complex of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element wherein the ability of the compound to modulate interaction of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element is indicated by a modulation of complex formation in the presence of the compound as compared to the formation of complex in the absence of the compound thereby identifying a compound useful in modulating a biological activity of an RNA binding protein.

In one aspect the present invention provides methods of identifying a compound useful in modulating embryogenesis. The methods include providing an indicator composition comprising an RNA binding protein and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element contacting the indicator composition with each member of a library of test compounds under conditions which allow binding of the RNA binding protein to the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element to form a complex and detecting the formation of a complex of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element wherein the ability of the compound to modulate interaction of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element is indicated by a modulation of complex formation in the presence of the compound as compared to the amount of complex formed in the absence of the compound thereby identifying a compound useful in modulating embryogenesis.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods of identifying a compound useful for treating a subject with a parasitic associated state. The methods include providing an indicator composition comprising an RNA binding protein and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element contacting the indicator composition with each member of a library of test compounds under conditions which allow binding of the RNA binding protein to the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element to form a complex and detecting the formation of a complex of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element wherein the ability of the compound to modulate interaction of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element is indicated by modulation of complex formation in the presence of the compound as compared to the amount of complex formed in the absence of the compound thereby identifying a compound useful for treating a subject with a parasitic associated state.

The biological activity of the RNA binding protein may be determined by measuring the interaction of the RNA binding protein and an RNA binding protein recognition element. Alternatively the biological activity of the RNA binding protein may be determined by determining the ability of the compound to modulate a biological activity selected from the group consisting of anterior patterning germ cell totipotency development of the intestine development of germline blastomeres development of pharyngeal tissue expression and or activity of PAL 1 NOS 2 APX 1 protein and GLP 1.

The indicator composition may be a cell that expresses the RNA binding protein or a cell free composition.

In one embodiment the RNA binding protein comprises a CCCH type tandem zinc finger. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein comprising the CCCH type tandem zinc finger is POS 1.

In another embodiment the RNA binding protein comprises a KH domain. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein comprising the KH domain is MEX 3.

In one embodiment the RNA binding protein recognition element comprises the consensus sequence UA U RD N G. In another embodiment the RNA binding protein recognition element comprises the consensus sequence DKAG N UHUA.

Detecting the formation of a complex of the RNA binding protein and the RNA molecule may be determined by a gel shift assay or a fluorescence polarization assay. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein recognition element is fluorescently labeled.

The methods of the invention may further comprise determining the effect of the test compound on a parasitic associated state in a non human animal comprising administering the test compound to the animal and determining the effect of test compound on the parasitic associated state in the presence and absence of the test compound. Determining the effect of the test compound on a parasitic associated state may be determined by measuring an immune response in the non human animal.

In one embodiment the test compound increases the formation or stability of the complex. In another embodiment the test compound decreases the formation or stability of the complex.

In another aspect the invention provides compounds identified according to the method of the invention which may be in the form of a composition.

One aspect of the invention provides to methods of inhibiting embryogenesis in a parasite comprising contacting the parasite with a compound identified according to the methods of the invention.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating a parasite associated state in a subject comprising administering a composition comprising a compound identified in the methods of the invention to the subject thereby treating a parasite associated state in the subject.

The invention pertains generally to a method for treating or preventing a parasitic associated state in a subject comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the parasitic associated state is treated or prevented.

The term parasitic associated state includes those diseases and disorders associated with parasites. In one embodiment the parasitic associated state is a parasitic infestation. In one embodiment the parasitic associated state is a disease caused by a parasitic infestation. In one embodiment the parasitic associated state is a parasitic re infestation.

As used herein the term RNA binding modulatory compound includes those compounds that are capable of modulating the activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. an RNA binding protein required for embryogenesis in a parasitic worm e.g. the binding of an RNA binding protein to a target RNA e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding recognition element of the RNA binding protein . In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound is a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2. In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound includes compounds that are capable of decreasing inhibiting or preventing the activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. the binding of an RNA binding protein to a target RNA e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding recognition element of the RNA binding protein . In another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound includes compounds that are capable of increasing augmenting or enhancing the activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. the binding of an RNA binding protein to a target RNA e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding recognition element of the RNA binding protein .

In various embodiments the method includes treating a parasitic infestation in a subject infested with parasites protecting plants from a parasitic infestation inhibiting embryogenesis in a parasite or in a subject suffering from a parasitic infestation reducing parasitic burden in soil in plants or in a mammal suffering from a parasitic infection treating or preventing an inflammatory disorder and treating a disease in a mammal caused by the growth and replication of a parasite.

In one embodiment the invention pertains to a method of treating a parasitic infestation in a subject infested with parasites by administering to the subject a therapeutically or pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the subject is treated.

The term subject includes animals e.g. vertebrates amphibians fish mammals non human animals including humans that are capable of suffering from a parasitic infestation an inflammatory disorder e.g. rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis and multiple sclerosis or a disease in a mammal caused by a parasitic infection e.g. helminthiasis . Subjects also include primates such as chimpanzees monkeys and the like. In one embodiment of the invention the subject is suffering from a parasitic infestation or infection e.g. a helminth infestation. In one embodiment the subject is at risk for a parasitic infection e.g. has been exposed to a parasite e.g. a helminth.

The term subject also includes agriculturally productive livestock for example cattle sheep goats horses pigs donkeys camels buffalo rabbits chickens turkeys ducks geese and bees and domestic pets for example dogs cats caged birds and aquarium fish and also so called test animals for example hamsters guinea pigs rats and mice.

The term subject also includes plants. The term plant includes all plants and plant parts for example all plants and plant populations including wild plants or crop plants including naturally occurring crop plants . Crop plants may be plants that can be obtained by conventional plant breeding and optimization methods or by biotechnological and recombinant methods or by combinations of these methods including transgenic plants. Examples of plants include but are not limited to the following plant cultivars cereals wheat barley rye oats rice maize sorghum and related species beet sugar beet and fodder beet pome stone and berry fruit apples pears plums peaches almonds cherries strawberries raspberries and blackberries legumes beans lentils peas soya oil crops rape mustard poppy olives sunflowers coconut castor oil cocoa peanut cucumber plants squashes cucumber melons citrus fruits oranges lemons grapefruits mandarines vegetables spinach lettuce asparagus cabbage varieties carrots onions tomatoes potatoes paprika laurels avocado cinnamonium camphor and plants such as tobacco cotton nuts corn coffee aubergines sugar cane tea pepper vines hops grapes bananas and natural rubber plants as well as ornamental plants. In one embodiment the plant is suffering from a parasitic infestation. In another embodiment the plant is at risk of suffering from a parasitic infestation.

Plant parts also include all parts and organs of plants above and below the ground such as shoot leaf flower and root examples of which include for example leaves needles stalks stems flowers fruit bodies fruits seeds roots tubers and rhizomes. The plant parts also include harvested material and vegetative and generative propagation material for example cuttings tubers rhizomes offsets and seeds.

The language subject also includes soil. The term soil includes the soil used in planting any plants or plant parts as described above. The term soil also includes that soil that has not yet been planted with any plants or plant parts. In one embodiment the soil suffers from a parasitic infestation.

As used herein the term treating may result in prevention of the disease or condition cure of the disease or condition a decrease in the type or number of symptoms associated with the condition either in the long term or short term i.e. amelioration of the condition or simply a transient beneficial effect to the subject.

The terms treating and treatment used in the context of an animal include the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to treat the animal for a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation parasitic embryogenesis an inflammatory disease e.g. rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis and multiple sclerosis or a disease in an animal caused by a parasitic infection e.g. helminthiasis .

The terms preventing and prevention used in the context of an animal include the administration of a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to prevent a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation parasitic embryogenesis an inflammatory disease e.g. rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis and multiple sclerosis or a disease in an animal caused by a parasitic infection e.g. helminthiasis from occurring.

The terms treating and treatment used in the context of plants include the administration to a plant or to soil a pesticidally effective amount of a RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to treat the plant or soil for a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation parasitic embryogenesis or reduction of the parasitic burden of the plant or soil.

The terms preventing and prevention used in the context of plants include the administration of a pesticidally effective amount of a RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIc IIb III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to a plant or to soil to prevent a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation or parasitic embryogenesis.

The phrases parasitic infestation and parasitic infection used interchangeable herein are intended to include the presence of parasitic organisms or embryos within the subject e.g. mammal plant or soil . The term parasite includes an animal or plant that lives in or on a host subject e.g. a mammal plant or soil . In one embodiment the parasite is a helminth. The term helminth includes eukaryotic worm like parasites that live inside their hosts. Examples of helminths include but are not limited to flatworms e.g. plathyhelminths for example trematodes e.g. flukes and cestodes e.g. tapeworms thorny headed worms e.g. acanthocephalans and roundworms e.g. nematodes . In one embodiment the parasitic infestation is a helminth infestation. In one embodiment the parasitic infestation is a nematode infestation. In one embodiment the helminth or parasitic worm is an intestinal parasite e.g. a parasitic worm that lives inside the digestive tract. As used herein the phrase parasitic re infestation or parasitic re infection is intended to include the re occurrence of a parasitic infestation in a subject.

Examples of nematodes include for example sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. sp. and . In one embodiment the nematode is

The language therapeutically effective amount of the compound includes that amount necessary or sufficient to treat prevent or ameliorate a disease or disorder e.g. a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation in a subject e.g. a subject suffering from or at risk for a parasitic infestation e.g. infestation by a helminth . A therapeutically effective amount of the compound includes that amount necessary or sufficient to treat prevent or ameliorate in a subject a parasitic associated state an inflammatory disorder e.g. rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis or multiple sclerosis or a disease in a subject caused by a parasitic infestation e.g. helminthiasis . The language therapeutically effective amount of the compound also includes that amount necessary to reduce the parasitic burden in a subject and the amount necessary to inhibit parasitic embryogenesis in a parasite or in a subject suffering from a parasitic infestation. The therapeutically effective amount can vary depending on such factors as the size and weight of the subject the type of illness etc. One of ordinary skill in the art would be able to study the aforementioned factors and make the determination regarding the effective amount of the compounds without undue experimentation.

The language pesticidally effective amount of the compound includes that amount necessary or sufficient to treat prevent or ameliorate a disease or disorder e.g. parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation in a plant or soil e.g. plant or soil suffering from or at risk for a parasitic associated state e.g. parasitic infestation . The language pesticially effective amount of the compound also includes that amount necessary to reduce the parasitic burden in the soil or plant and the amount necessary to inhibit parasitic embryogenesis in a parasite or in a plant or in the soil comprising a parasitic infestation. The pesticidally effective amount can vary depending on such factors as the type of plant the type of parasitic infestation the extent of the parasitic infestation etc. One of ordinary skill in the art would be able to study the aforementioned factors and make the determination regarding the pesticidally effective amount of the compounds without undue experimentation.

In another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for protection of plants from a parasitic infestation by administering to the plants a pesticidally effective amount of a an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the plants are protected.

The language protect and protection includes shielding guarding or preventing plants from damage by a parasitic infestation in or on the plant or in the soil surrounding the plant. The protection can occur by application of a an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to the plant itself or to the soil surrounding the plant.

In yet another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for modulating e.g. inhibiting embryogenesis e.g. in a parasite or in a subject suffering from a parasitic infection by contacting the parasite or administering to the subject suffering from a parasitic infection a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that embryogenesis is inhibited. The parasite may be located externally from a plant e.g. on a plant or in the soil or may be located within the plant or mammal itself.

As used herein the various forms of the term modulate include stimulation e.g. increasing or upregulating a particular response or activity and inhibition e.g. decreasing or downregulating a particular response or activity .

The terms inhibit and inhibiting refer to decreasing or downregulating a particular response or activity. The terms inhibit and inhibiting include for example the suppression or amelioration of embryogenesis e.g. parasitic embryogenesis. The terms inhibit and inhibiting also include for example the downmodulating or blocking of the interaction between an RNA binding protein and a target RNA.

The language embryogenesis includes the process by which an embryo e.g. a parasitic embryo is formed and develops e.g. in a parasite. Without being bound by theory in one embodiment the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the binding of RNA binding proteins required in the early stages of embryogenesis to a target RNA of the RNA binding protein. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is MEX 5 POS 1 or MEX 3.

The term RNA binding protein as used herein refers to a protein that selectively or specifically binds to RNA. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein binds selectively to single stranded RNA. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein binds selectively to double stranded RNA. An RNA binding protein of the present invention selectively or specifically binds to a target RNA e.g. RNA that comprises an RNA binding recognition element for the RNA binding protein.

In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is required for embryogenesis e.g. parasitic embryogenesis e.g. helminth embryogenesis . In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is a helminth RNA binding protein e.g. a nematode RNA binding protein a trematode RNA binding protein or a cestode RNA binding protein. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is a mammalian RNA binding protein. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein is a mammalian RNA binding protein and is not required for embryogenesis. In one embodiment of the invention the RNA binding protein comprises a CCCH Zinc finger motif. Examples of RNA binding proteins that comprise a CCCH Zinc finger motif include but are not limited to MEX 5 POS 1 and MEX 6 or a homolog thereof. In another embodiment the RNA binding protein comprises a KH domain. Examples of RNA binding proteins that comprise a KH domain include but are not limited to MEX 3 and GLD 1 or a homolog thereof.

The term MEX 5 includes a cytoplasmic RNA binding protein that contains two CCCH zinc finger motifs that functions along with the similar CCCH zinc finger protein MEX 6 and is necessary for transducing polarity cues and establishing soma germline asymmetry in the early embryo. In regulating the soma germline asymmetry MEX 5 activates the SOCS box protein ZIF 1 which functions as part of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that degrades germ plasm proteins in somatic blastomers resulting in reduced expression of germline proteins in germline blastomers. MEX 5 is expressed at uniform levels in both oocytes and newly fertilized eggs see Schubert C. M. et al. 2000 5 671 682 Hunter C. et al. 2002 129 747 759 Cuenca A. A. et al. 2003 130 1255 1265 Lin 2003 258 226 239 DeRenzo C. et al. 2003 424 685 689 Nishi et al. 2008 135 687 697 .

The term POS 1 includes a CCCH type zinc finger protein that is necessary for the proper fate specification of germ cells intestine pharynx and hypodermis. POS 1 is also required in posterior blastomers for positive regulation of apx 1 mRNA translation and negative regulation of glp 1 mRNA translation by direct binding to the spatial control region in the glp 1 mRNA 3 UTR. POS 1 is first found in low levels in one cell embryos and in high levels in germline blastomeres where it disappears after the P4 division. POS 1 colocalizes with cytoplasmic and perinuclear P granules in the germline blastomeres P1 P2 P3 and P4 see Kohara Y. et al. 1999 126 1 11 Oguro K. et al. 2003 130 2495 2503 .

The term MEX 3 includes a KH domain containing RNA binding protein that is necessary for specifying the identities of the anterior AB blastomer and its descendent as well as for the identity of the P3 blastomer and proper segregation of the germline P granules. MEX 3 is found uniformly in the cytoplasm of oocytes and one cell stage embryos and becomes more abundant in AB and its daughters at the two and four cell stages see Bowerman et al. 1996 87 205 216 .

In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 5 but do not substantially inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 3 or POS 1. In another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 3 but do not substantially inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 5 or POS 1. In yet another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of POS 1 but do not substantially inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 3 or MEX 5. In a further embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of two of MEX 3 MEX 5 and POS 1 without substantially modulating e.g. inhibiting the RNA binding activity of the third protein. In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of MEX 3 MEX 5 and POS 1. In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention e.g. the compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulate e.g. inhibit the RNA binding activity of parasitic MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1 without modulating e.g. inhibiting the RNA binding of the mammalian e.g. human homologs of MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1.

In one embodiment an RNA binding modulatory compound of the invention e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulates e.g. inhibits the RNA binding activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1 by at least about 75 by about 76 by about 77 by about 78 by about 79 by about 80 by about 81 by about 82 by about 83 by about 84 by about 85 by about 86 by about 87 by about 88 by about 89 by about 90 by about 91 by about 92 by about 93 by about 94 by about 95 by about 96 by about 97 by about 98 by about 99 or by about 100 . In one embodiment an RNA binding modulatory compound of the invention e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulates e.g. inhibits the RNA binding activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1 by about 25 by about 30 by about 35 by about 45 by about 50 by about 55 by about 60 by about 65 by about 70 by about 71 by about 72 by about 73 or by about 74 . In a preferred embodiment an RNA binding modulatory compound of the invention e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 modulates e.g. inhibits the RNA binding activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. MEX 3 MEX 5 and or POS 1 by at least about 75 .

In a further embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for reducing parasitic burden in soil in plants or in a subject suffering from a parasitic infection by administering a therapeutically or pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the parasitic burden is reduced.

The term parasitic burden includes the amount number of parasites and or parasite eggs present in a given sample. Appropriate samples include but are not limited to soil samples plant samples e.g. from roots leaves stems and the like and biological samples e.g. urine blood tissue fecal matter and the like . In one embodiment upon administration of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 to the subject the parasitic burden in that subject is reduced by about 10 by about 11 by about 12 by about 13 by about 14 by about 15 by about 16 by about 17 by about 18 by about 19 by about 20 by about 21 by about 22 by about 23 by about 24 by about 25 by about 26 by about 27 by about 28 by about 29 by about 30 by about 31 by about 32 by about 33 by about 34 by about 35 by about 36 by about 37 by about 38 by about 39 by about 40 by about 41 by about 32 by about 43 by about 44 by about 45 by about 46 by about 47 by about 48 by about 49 50 by about 51 by about 52 by about 53 by about 54 by about 55 by about 56 by about 57 by about 58 by about 59 by about 60 by about 61 by about 62 by about 63 by about 64 by about 65 by about 66 by about 67 by about 68 by about 69 by about 70 by about 71 by about 72 by about 73 by about 74 by about 75 by about 76 by about 77 by about 78 by about 79 by about 80 by about 81 by about 82 by about 83 by about 84 by about 85 by about 86 by about 87 by about 88 by about 89 by about 90 by about 91 by about 92 by about 93 by about 94 by about 95 by about 96 by about 97 by about 98 by about 99 or by about 100 .

In one embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for treating or preventing an autoimmune disorder or inflammatory disorder in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the inflammatory disorder is treated.

The term inflammatory disorder includes those disorders that are associated with acute or chronic inflammation. Examples of inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to allergic reactions autoimmune disorders e.g. multiple sclerosis diabetes e.g. insulin dependent diabetes mellitus chronic obstructive pulmonary disease lupus endometriosis myasthenia gravis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis cancer atherosclerosis ischemic heart disease asthma autoimmune diseases chronic inflammation chronic prostatitis glomerulonephritis inflammatory bowel disease pelvic inflammatory disease e.g. Crohn s disease reperfusion injury rheumatoid arthritis ankylosing spondylitis transplant rejection and vasculitis.

In another embodiment the invention pertains at least in part to a method for treating a disease caused by a parasitic infestation in a mammal by administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 such that the disease is treated.

In one embodiment the disease caused by a parasitic infestation is helminthiasis. The term helminthiasis includes diseases caused by the infestation of a mammal by the a helminth e.g. a plathyhelminth for example trematodes and cestodes thorny headed worms for example acanthocephalans and roundworms for example nematodes . Examples of heminthiasis include but are not limited to schistosomiasis swimmer s itch clonorchiasis fasciolosis paragonimiasis fasciolopsiasis echinococcosis taeniasis cysticercosis hymenolepiasis diphyllobothriasis sparganosis dracunculiasis onchocerciasis loa loa filariasis mansonelliasis dirofilariasis gnathostomiasis ancylostomiasis cutaneous larva migrans necatoriasis angiostrongyliasis ascariasis anisakiasis viceral larva migrans toxocariasis strongyloidiasis enterobiasis pinworm trichinosis trichuriasis whipworm and capillariasis.

The articles a and an are used herein to refer to one or to more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example an element means one element or more than one element.

As used herein the term compound or test compound includes any agent e.g. nucleic acid molecules antisense nucleic acid molecule peptide peptidomimetic small molecule or other drug which binds to an RNA binding protein modulates e.g. inhibits interaction of an RNA binding protein and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element and or has a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on for example RNA binding protein expression or activity binding affinity or stability.

For screening assays of the invention preferably the test compound or agent screened includes molecules that are not known in the art to modulate activity of an RNA binding protein and or expression as described herein. Preferably a plurality of agents are tested using the instant methods.

The term library of test compounds is intended to refer to a panel comprising a multiplicity of test compounds.

In one embodiment the agent or test compound is a compound that directly interacts with the RNA binding protein or directly interacts with a molecule with which the RNA binding protein interacts e.g. a compound that inhibits or stimulates the interaction between the RNA binding protein and the RNA binding protein target molecule e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element . In another embodiment the compound is one that indirectly modulates expression and or activity of an RNA binding protein e.g. by modulating the activity of a molecule that is upstream or downstream of the RNA binding protein in a signal transduction pathway involving the RNA binding protein. Such compounds can be identified using screening assays that select for such compounds as described in detail below.

The term interact as used herein is meant to include detectable interactions between molecules such as can be detected using for example a gel shift assay a fluorescence polarization assay a yeast two hybrid assay and coimmunoprecipitation. The term interact is also meant to include binding interactions between molecules. Interactions may be protein protein or protein nucleic acid in nature.

As used herein the term contacting e.g. contacting a cell with a compound is intended to include incubating the compound and the cell together in vitro e.g. adding the compound to cells in culture or administering the compound to a subject such that the compound and cells of the subject are contacted in vivo.

As used herein the term indicator composition refers to a composition that includes a protein of interest e.g. an RNA binding protein for example a cell that naturally expresses the protein a cell that has been engineered to express the protein by introducing an expression vector encoding the protein into the cell or a cell free composition that contains the protein e.g. purified naturally occurring protein or recombinantly engineered protein .

As used herein the term cell free composition refers to an isolated composition which does not contain intact cells. Examples of cell free compositions include cell extracts and compositions containing isolated proteins.

In one embodiment small molecules can be used as test compounds. The term small molecule is a term of the art and includes molecules that are less than about 7500 less than about 5000 less than about 1000 molecular weight or less than about 500 molecular weight. In one embodiment small molecules do not exclusively comprise peptide bonds. In another embodiment small molecules are not oligomeric. Exemplary small molecule compounds which can be screened for activity include but are not limited to peptides peptidomimetics nucleic acids carbohydrates small organic molecules e.g. Cane et al. 1998. Science 282 63 and natural product extract libraries. In another embodiment the compounds are small organic non peptidic compounds. In a further embodiment a small molecule is not biosynthetic. For example a small molecule is preferably not itself the product of transcription or translation.

R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety or Rand Rand or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are linked to form a 3 9 membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring or 5 9 membered aryl ring and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen and Ris aryl for example phenyl or a thiophenyl moiety. In another embodiment the phenyl is a mono or di substituted phenyl substituted with for example carboxylate halogen e.g. chlorine alkyl e.g. methyl or amino e.g. carbonylamino for example alkylcarbonylamino such as CH CH CONH . In yet another embodiment the phenyl is selected from the group consisting of 

In a further embodiment the thiophenyl moiety is carbonyl substituted with for example alkoxy e.g. ethoxy and alkyl e.g. methyl . In one embodiment the thiophenyl moiety is

In one embodiment Ris carbonyl substituted with an aryl moiety such as phenyl e.g. mono di or tri substituted for example phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine bromine or iodine alkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy nitro aryl e.g. phenyl or alkyl e.g. methyl . In another embodiment the phenyl is selected from the group consisting of 

In yet another embodiment Ris carbonyl substituted with an aryl moiety such as naphthyl for example an alkoxy e.g. methoxy substituted naphthyl. In one embodiment the napthyl moiety is

In one embodiment Ris carbonyl substituted for example with an aryl moiety such as a heteroaryl moiety such as a furanyl or benzothiophenyl moiety. In another embodiment the furanyl moiety is substituted with aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine . In yet another embodiment the furanyl moiety is

In a further embodiment Ris hydrogen and Ris carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with aryl such as phenyl e.g. NOsubstituted pheny for example 

In yet another embodiment Ris a benzo d imidazole moiety for example 1 alkyl 1H benzo d imidazole such as 1 propyl 1H benzo d imidazole 1 butyl 1H benzo d imidazole or 1 benzyl 1H benzo d imidazole.

In one embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are linked to form a 3 9 membered heterocyclic ring such as a piperazinyl ring for example a piperazinyl ring substituted with a carbonyl moiety e.g. carbonyl substituted with alkoxy such as carbonyl substituted with ethoxy . In another embodiment the piperazinyl ring is

In yet another embodiment Ris alkyl for example aryl substituted alkyl such as an oxydibenzene moiety including but not limited to 

In one embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen and Ris aryl such as phenyl or a thiophenyl moiety. In another embodiment the phenyl is a mono or di substituted phenyl substituted with for example carboxylate halogen e.g. chlorine alkyl e.g. methyl or amino e.g. amino substituted with carbonyl which may be further substituted with alkyl for example CH CH CONH . In a further embodiment the thiophenyl moiety may be substituted with carbonyl e.g. carbonyl substituted with alkoxy such as carbonyl substituted with ethoxy and alkyl e.g. methyl .

In another embodiment Rand Rare each alkyl for example alkyl substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl such as benzyl.

In one embodiment Ris an aryl moiety for example phenyl e.g. a mono di or tri substituted such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine bromine or iodine alkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy nitro aryl e.g. phenyl or alkyl e.g. methyl .

In another embodiment Ris aryl for example naphthyl such as a naphthyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. methoxy .

In yet another embodiment Ris an aryl moiety such as a heteroaryl moiety for example a furanyl or benzothiophenyl moiety. In another embodiment the furanyl moiety is substituted with aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine . In a further embodiment the benzothiophenyl moiety is substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine .

Ris alkyl or aryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached are linked to form a 3 9 membered heterocyclic or 5 9 membered aryl ring and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris a sulfonyl e.g. aryl substituted sulfonyl for example tosylate and Ris aryl e.g. an oxydibenzene moiety for example 

In another embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris aryl e.g. phenyl and Ris aryl for example heteroaryl such as a benzo d imidazole moiety e.g. 1 alkyl 1H benzo d imidazole for example 1 propyl 1H benzo d imidazole 1 butyl 1H benzo d imidazole or 1 benzyl 1H benzo d imidazole .

In yet another embodiment the compound of formula I is a compound selected from the group consisting of 

Rand Rare each hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety 

Ris hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfone carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy halogen acyl oximyl hydrazinyl NO CN a heterocyclic moiety or thioether and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Ris aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. bromine Ris hydrogen and Ris alkyl such as aminocarbonylalkyl which may be substituted for example aryl e.g. phenyl including but not limited to phenyl substituted with aminocarbonyl. In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example phenyl e.g. disubstituted phenyl for example phenyl substituted with hydroxyl halogen e.g. chlorine alkyl e.g. methyl or amino e.g. aryl substituted sulfonylamino for example phenyl substituted sulfonylamino . In one embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of 

In a further embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris alkyl for example heteroaryl substituted alkyl in which the heteroaryl may be a benzo d imidazole moiety e.g. a 1 H benzo d imidazole and Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or halogen e.g. chlorine .

In yet another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris heteroaryl for example isoxazolyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl or pyrimidinyl such as

In yet another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

In yet another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

In another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

In one embodiment Ris aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. bromine Ris hydrogen and Ris alkyl such as aminocarbonylalkyl which may be substituted for example with aryl e.g. phenyl including but not limited to phenyl substituted with aminocarbonyl . In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example phenyl e.g. disubstituted phenyl for example phenyl substituted with hydroxyl halogen e.g. chlorine alkyl e.g. methyl or amino e.g. aryl substituted sulfonylamino for example phenyl substituted sulfonylamino . In one embodiment 

In a further embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris alkyl for example heteroaryl substituted alkyl in which the heteroaryl may be a benzo d imidazole moiety e.g. a 1 H benzo d imidazole and Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or halogen e.g. chlorine .

In another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula II is a compound of formula IIb 

In yet another embodiment Ris aryl such as heteroaryl for example isoxazolyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl or pyrimidinyl such as

In yet another embodiment Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

In yet another embodiment Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

In another embodiment Ris aryl for example heteroaryl e.g. isoxazolyl thiazolyl or thiadiazolyl such as

R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfone carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy halogen acyl oximyl hydrazinyl NO CN a heterocyclic moiety or thioether 

R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl halogen or a heterocyclic moiety or Rand Rand or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are linked to form a 3 9 membered heterocyclic ring or 5 9 aryl ring and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In another embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen Rand Rare each aryl for example phenyl such as unsubstituted phenyl R R and Rare each hydrogen and Ris NO.

In another embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen R Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or hydrogen and Rand Rare each aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. methoxy or halogen e.g. fluorine . In one embodiment the phenyl is

In yet another embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen Rand Rare each alkyl e.g. ethyl and R R Rand Rare each hydrogen.

Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety or Rand Rand or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are linked to form a 3 9 membered heterocyclic or 5 9 membered heteroaryl ring and

Ris hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl halogen or a heterocyclic moiety and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example heteroaryl such as thiophenyl benzothiazolyl or phthalazinyl

In one embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example phenyl e.g. mono or disubstituted phenyl for example phenyl substituted with NO alkyl e.g. methyl or aminocarbonyl e.g. CONH such as

In yet another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula III is selected from the group consisting of 

R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfone carbonyl carboxylate carbonyloxy alkoxy aryloxy halogen acyl oximyl hydrazinyl NO CN a heterocyclic moiety or thioether 

Ris hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety and

Ris hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In another embodiment R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each halogen e.g. chlorine .

In yet another embodiment R R R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris carboxy for example carboxy substituted with aryl such as naphthyl or phenyl e.g. phenyl substituted with alkoxycarbonyl for example methoxycarbonyl or ethoxycarbonyl . In one embodiment the carboxy is

In yet another embodiment R R R Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris carbonyloxy such as carbonyloxy substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl including disubstituted phenyl which may be substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine . In one embodiment the carbonyloxy is

R R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate carbonyloxy alkoxy aryloxy halogen acyl oximyl hydrazinyl NO CN a heterocyclic moiety or thioether or Rand Ror Rand Ror Rand Ror Rand Rtogether with the carbon atoms to which they are attached are linked to form a 4 9 carbocyclic heterocyclic or aryl ring and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Rand Rare linked to form an aryl moiety e.g. phenyl Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example furanyl

In another embodiment R Rand Rare each hydrogen and Rand Rare linked to form an aryl moiety for example phenyl e.g. tri substituted phenyl for example phenyl substituted with NO hydroxyl and alkyl which may be substituted with a heterocyclic moiety amino or aryl. In one embodiment the heterocyclic moiety is morpholine or pyrrolidine which may be substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl . In one embodiment the amino is substituted with carbonyl which may be further substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl or n butyl . In one embodiment the aryl is furanyl or phenyl for example phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine hydroxyl or alkoxy e.g. methoxy or alkoxy . In one embodiment Rand Rare linked to form a ring selected from the group consisting of

In yet another embodiment R Rand Rare each hydrogen and Rand Rare each substituted with carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with amino which may be substituted with aryl such as thiadiazolyl e.g. thiadiazolyl substituted with alkyl for example methyl or n propyl or benzothiazolyl. In one embodiment Rand Rare

In a further embodiment R Rand Rare each hydrogen and Rand Rare each carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with amino which may be further substituted with alkyl e.g. alkyl substituted with aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. methoxy . In one embodiment Rand Rare each

In one embodiment Ris NOand Ris alkyl which may be substituted with a heterocyclic moiety e.g. morpholine .

In another embodiment Ris NOand Ris alkyl for example alkyl substituted with a heterocyclic moiety amino or aryl. In one embodiment the heterocyclic moiety is pyrrolidine which may be substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl . In one embodiment the amino is substituted with carbonyl which may be further substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl or n butyl . In one embodiment the aryl is furanyl or phenyl for example phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine hydroxyl or alkoxy e.g. methoxy or alkoxy . In one embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of

In yet another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VI is a compound of formula VIb 

In one embodiment the carbonyl is substituted with amino which may be substituted with aryl such as thiadiazolyl e.g. thiadiazolyl substituted with alkyl for example methyl or n propyl or benzothiazolyl. In one embodiment the carbonyl is substituted with

R R R R R R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy acyl or a heterocyclic moiety 

R R R R R R R R R R R RR R R R R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl amino sulfonyl carbonyl carboxylate alkoxy aryloxy carbonyloxy halogen acyl oximyl hydrazinyl NO CN a heterocyclic moiety or thioether or

Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached are linked to form a 4 12 membered carbocyclic aryl or heterocyclic ring or

R Ror Rand R Ror Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached are linked to form a 4 12 membered carbocyclic aryl or heterocyclic ring or

Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached are linked to form a 4 12 membered carbocyclic aryl or heterocyclic ring and

In one embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is O W is CRand Z is CR X is N Y is N Ris thiol e.g. SH or aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. bromine or quinoline for example quinoline substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl Ris thiol for example thiol substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl which may be substituted with NOand carboxylate or aryl. In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Y is CR Rand Rare each aryl e.g. phenyl and Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl which may be substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl for example phenyl substituted with alkyl such as methyl In one embodiment Ris

In yet another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is S W is CRand Z is CR X is N Y is N Ris amino or thiol. In one embodiment Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl or oximyl. In another embodiment the oximyl is an aryl substituted oximyl such as phenyl substituted oximyl in which the phenyl may be further substituted with NO. In yet another embodioxy such as ethoxy or aryl e.g. heteroaryl for example triazole . Alternatively Ris thiol for example thiol substituted with alkyl e.g. aryl substituted alkyl such as phenyl substituted alkyl which may be further substituted with halogen such as chlorine . In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Ris alkyl for example t butyl or alkyl substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl for example phenyl substituted with halogen such as chlorine or carbonyl e.g. alkoxy substituted carbonyl for example ethoxyl substituted carbonyl . Alternatively Ris aryl e.g. heteroaryl such as pyridine or thiol e.g. SH . In another embodiment Ris

In yet another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is S W is CRand Z is CR X is N Y is CR Ris hydrogen Ris aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with hydroxyl

In another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is S W is CRand Z is CR X is CR Y is CR Rand Rare each alkyl e.g. methyl Ris carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with amino e.g. NH Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl such as aryl substituted carbonyl e.g. pyrazine substituted carbonyl for example 

In another embodiment Ris carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. methoxy Ris alkyl e.g. ethyl and Ris aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine . In one embodiment Ris

In yet another embodiment Rand Rare linked to join a ring e.g. a 6 membered or 12 membered carbocyclic ring for example 

In one embodiment Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl e.g. alkyl substituted carbonyl such as alkyl substituted with carboxylate . In one embodiment Ris

In yet another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is NR X is N Y is N W is CRand Z is CR Ris thiol e.g. SH Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. methy or alkyl substituted with aryl for example phenyl or alkenyl or aryl for example unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl or halogen e.g. fluorine . In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment U is NR X is N Y is N W is CR Z is CR Ris hydrogen Ris hydrogen Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl e.g. carbonyl substituted with aryl such as phenyl which may be substituted with hydroxyl . In yet another embodiment Ris a heterocyclic moiety

In another embodiment U is NR W is CR X is CR Y is CR Z is N Ris hydrogen or alkyl e.g. alkyl substituted with carboxylate for example CHCHCOOH Ris hydrogen or alkyl e.g. methyl Ris alkenyl e.g. alkenyl substituted with a heterocyclic moiety for example 

In another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is NR W is CR X is N Y is CR Z is N Ris aryl e.g. phenyl Ris a heterocyclic moiety

In another embodiment Ris amino e.g. amino substituted with carbonyl for example aryl substituted carbonyl such as phenyl substituted carbonyl including NOsubstituted phenyl or aryl e.g. phenyl for example phenyl substituted with carbonyloxy such as alkyl substituted carbonyloxy including but not limited to methyl substituted carbonyloxy . In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment p and q are each a double bond U is NR W is N X is N Y is N Z is CR Ris hydrogen Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl e.g. aryl substituted carbonyl for example heteroaryl substituted carbonyl such as thiophenyl substituted carbonyl 

In yet another embodiment U is NR q is a double bond and p is a single bond W is CR X is N Y is NRand Z is C A A is S Ris hydrogen Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl or aryl substituted alkyl for example phenyl substituted alkyl or aryl e.g. phenyl such as phenyl substituted with alkyl such as methyl or ethyl for example 

In one embodiment U is NR q is a double bond and p is a single bond W is N X is CR Y is C G Z is C A A is O Ris aryl for example phenyl substituted with sulfonyl e.g. amino substituted sulfonyl carboxylate or halogen e.g. chlorine such as

In yet another embodiment U is NR p and q are each a single bond W is NR X is C E Y is C G Z is C A Ris hydrogen A and E are O Ris aryl for example phenyl such as unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine or fluorine or carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. ethoxy for example 

In one embodiment Uis S Ris amino for example amino substituted with carbonyl or oximyl. In another embodiment the oximyl is aryl substituted oximyl such as phenyl substituted oximyl in which the phenyl may be further substituted with NO. In yet another embodiment the carbonyl may be substituted with carbonyl e.g. carbonyl substituted with alkoxy such as ethoxy or aryl e.g. heteroaryl for example triazole . Alternatively Ris thiol for example thiol substituted with alkyl e.g. aryl substituted alkyl such as phenyl substituted alkyl which may be further substituted with halogen such as chlorine . In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Ris alkyl for example t butyl or alkyl substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl for example phenyl substituted with halogen such as chlorine or carbonyl e.g. alkoxy substituted carbonyl for example ethoxy substituted carbonyl . Alternatively Ris aryl e.g. heteroaryl such as pyridine or thiol e.g. SH . In another embodiment Ris

In another embodiment Uis O Ris thiol e.g. SH or aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. bromine or quinoline for example quinoline substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl Ris thiol for example thiol substituted with aryl e.g. phenyl which may be substituted with NOand carboxylate or aryl. In one embodiment Ris

In another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VII is a compound of formula VIIb 

Ris alkyl or aryl or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached are linked to form a 6 membered heterocyclic ring and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In one embodiment Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. methy or alkyl substituted with aryl for example phenyl or alkenyl or aryl for example unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted with alkyl e.g. methyl or halogen e.g. fluorine . In one embodiment Ris

In yet another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VII is a compound of formula VIIIc 

In one embodiment Ris substituted with carbonyl e.g. carbonyl substituted with aryl for example phenyl such as phenyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. methoxy or alkyl for example methyl or sulfonyl e.g. sulfonyl substituted with aryl for example phenyl which may be substituted with alkyl for example methyl . In one embodiment Ris

In a further embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VII is a compound of formula VIId 

In one embodiment Ris n butyl. In another embodiment Ris substituted alkyl for example carbonyl substituted alkyl such as aminocarbonyl substituted alkyl

In a further embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VII is a compound of formula VIIe 

In one embodiment Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl or aryl substituted alkyl for example phenyl substituted alkyl or aryl e.g. phenyl for example phenyl substituted with alkyl such as methyl or ethyl for example 

In one embodiment qis a double bond Xis CR Wis N Ris alkyl e.g. methyl Ris phenyl substituted with sulfonyl e.g. amino substituted sulfonyl carboxylate or halogen e.g. chlorine such as

In another embodiment qis a single bond Wis NH Xis C O Ris phenyl such as unsubstituted phenyl or phenyl substituted with halogen e.g. chlorine or fluorine or carbonyl for example carbonyl substituted with alkoxy e.g. ethoxy for example 

In another embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound of formula VII is a compound is selected from the group consisting of 

In one embodiment the compound is not abamectin praziquantel albendazole diethylcarbamazine mebendazole niclosamide ivermectin suramin thiabendazole pyrantel pamoate levamisole triclabendazole flubendazole fenbendazole octadepsipeptide oxamniquine metrifonate bithionol niridazole stibophen ciclobendazole oxantel pyrvinium bephenium desapidin or dichlorophen.

The term alkyl includes saturated aliphatic groups including straight chain alkyl groups e.g. methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl etc. branched chain alkyl groups isopropyl tert butyl isobutyl etc. cycloalkyl alicyclic groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups. The term alkyl further includes alkyl groups that may include oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. In certain embodiments a straight chain or branched chain alkyl has 6 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Cfor straight chain C Cfor branched chain . Likewise cycloalkyls may have from 3 8 carbon atoms in their ring structure. The term C C includes alkyl groups containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

Moreover the term alkyl includes both unsubstituted alkyls and substituted alkyls the latter of which refers to alkyl moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonate sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. Cycloalkyls can be further substituted e.g. with the substituents described above. An alkylaryl or an arylalkyl moiety is an alkyl substituted with an aryl e.g. phenylmethyl benzyl . The term alkyl also includes the side chains of natural and unnatural amino acids.

The term aryl includes groups e.g. 5 and 6 membered single ring aromatic groups that may include from zero to four heteroatoms for example benzene phenyl pyrrole furan thiophene thiazole isothiaozole imidazole triazole tetrazole pyrazole oxazole isooxazole pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine and the like. Furthermore the term aryl includes multicyclic aryl groups e.g. tricyclic bicyclic e.g. naphthalene benzoxazole benzodioxazole benzothiazole benzoimidazole benzothiophene methylenedioxyphenyl quinoline isoquinoline napthridine indole benzofuran purine benzofuran deazapurine or indolizine. Those aryl groups having heteroatoms in the ring structure may also be referred to as aryl heterocycles heteroaryls or heteroaromatics. The aromatic ring can be substituted at one or more ring positions with such substituents as described above as for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen hydroxyl alkoxy aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl alkylaminoacarbonyl arylalkyl aminocarbonyl alkenylaminocarbonyl alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl arylalkylcarbonyl alkenylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. Aryl groups can also be fused or bridged with alicyclic or heterocyclic rings which are not aromatic so as to form a polycycle e.g. tetralin . The term heteroaryl includes unsaturated cyclic compounds such as azirine oxirene dithiete pyrroline pyrrole furan dihydrofuran dihydrothiophene thiophene pyrazole imidazole oxazole thiazole isothiazole 12 2 3 triazole 1 2 4 triazole dithiazole tetrazole pyridine pyran pyrimidine pyran thiapyrane diazine thiazine dioxine triazine and tetrazene.

The term heterocyclic moiety includes saturated cyclic moieties having a closed ring of atoms in which at least one atom is not a carbon. As used herein heterocyclic moieties do not include heteroaryl moieties in which the closed ring of atoms is both heterocyclic and aromatic and or unsaturated. Examples of heterocyclic moieties include aziridine ethylene oxide thiirane dioxirane azetidine oxetane thietane dioxetane dithietane pyrrolidine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydrothiophene imidazolidine oxazolidine thiazolidine dioxolane dithiolane piperidine tetrahydropyran thiane piperzine pxazine dithiane dioxane and trioxane.

The term heterocyclic moiety includes both unsubstituted heterocyclic moieties and substituted heterocyclic moieties the latter of which includes moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more of the atoms on the closed ring. Such substituents can include for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogens hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyl oxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term alkenyl includes unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double bond. For example the term alkenyl includes straight chain alkenyl groups e.g. ethylenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl octenyl nonenyl decenyl etc. branched chain alkenyl groups cycloalkenyl alicyclic groups cyclopropenyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cycloheptenyl cyclooctenyl alkyl or alkenyl substituted cycloalkenyl groups and cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl substituted alkenyl groups. The term alkenyl further includes alkenyl groups which include oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. In certain embodiments a straight chain or branched chain alkenyl group has 6 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Cor straight chain C Cfor branched chain . Likewise cycloalkenyl groups may have from 3 8 carbon atoms in their ring structure. The term C Cincludes alkenyl groups containing 2 to 6 carbon atoms.

Moreover the term alkenyl includes both unsubstituted alkenyls and substituted alkenyls the latter of which refers to alkenyl moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogens hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyl oxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term alkynyl includes unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but which contain at least one triple bond. For example the term alkynyl includes straight chain alkynyl groups e.g. ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl octynyl nonynyl decynyl etc. branched chain alkynyl groups and cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl substituted alkynyl groups. The term alkynyl further includes alkynyl groups which include oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. In certain embodiments a straight chain or branched chain alkynyl group has 6 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Cfor straight chain C Cfor branched chain . The term C Cincludes alkynyl groups containing 2 to 6 carbon atoms.

Moreover the term alkynyl includes both unsubstituted alkynyls and substituted alkynyls the latter of which refers to alkynyl moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogens hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term acyl includes compounds and moieties which contain the acyl radical CHCO . It also includes substituted acyl moieties. The term substituted acyl includes acyl groups where one or more of the hydrogen atoms are replaced by for example alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogens hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term acylamino includes moieties wherein an acyl moiety is bonded to an amino group. For example the term includes alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido groups.

The terms alkoxyalkyl alkylaminoalkyl and thioalkoxyalkyl include alkyl groups as described above which further include oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone e.g. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms.

The term alkoxy includes substituted and unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups covalently linked to an oxygen atom. Examples of alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy isopropyloxy propoxy butoxy and pentoxy groups.

Examples of substituted alkoxy groups include halogenated alkoxy groups. he alkoxy groups can be substituted with groups such as alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halogen hydroxyl aryl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy COOH alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moieties. Examples of halogen substituted alkoxy groups include but are not limited to fluoromethoxy difluoromethoxy trifluoromethoxy chloromethoxy dichloromethoxy trichloromethoxy etc.

The term amine or amino includes compounds where a nitrogen atom is covalently bonded to at least one carbon or heteroatom. The term includes alkyl amino which comprises groups and compounds wherein the nitrogen is bound to at least one additional alkyl group. The term dialkyl amino includes groups wherein the nitrogen atom is bound to at least two additional alkyl groups. The term arylamino and diarylamino include groups in which the nitrogen is bound to at least one or two aryl groups respectively. The term alkylarylamino alkylaminoaryl or arylaminoalkyl refers to an amino group which is bound to at least one alkyl group and at least one aryl group. The term alkaminoalkyl refers to an alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl group bound to a nitrogen atom which is also bound to an alkyl group.

The term amide amido or aminocarbonyl includes compounds or moieties which contain a nitrogen atom which is bound to the carbon of a carbonyl or a thiocarbonyl group. The term includes alkaminocarbonyl or alkylaminocarbonyl groups which include alkyl alkenyl aryl or alkynyl groups bound to an amino group bound to a carbonyl group. It includes arylaminocarbonyl and arylcarbonylamino groups which include aryl or heteroaryl moieties bound to an amino group that is bound to the carbon of a carbonyl or thiocarbonyl group. The terms alkylaminocarbonyl alkenylaminocarbonyl alkynylaminocarbonyl arylaminocarbonyl alkylcarbonylamino alkenyl carbonylamino alkynylcarbonylamino and arylcarbonylamino are included in term amide. Amides also include urea groups aminocarbonylamino and carbamates oxycarbonylamino .

The term carbonyl or carboxy includes compounds and moieties which contain a carbon connected with a double bond to an oxygen atom. The carbonyl can be further substituted with any moiety which allows the compounds of the invention to perform its intended function. For example carbonyl moieties may be substituted with alkyls alkenyls alkynyls aryls alkoxy aminos etc. Examples of moieties which contain a carbonyl include aldehydes ketones carboxylic acids amides esters anhydrides etc. The term carboxy further includes the structure of COOH and COO.

The term oximyl includes compounds and moieties that contain a carbon connected with a double bond to a nitrogen atom which is in turn connected to a hydroxyl or an alkoxyl group. The term hydrazinyl includes compounds and moieties that contain a carbon connected with a double bond to a nitrogen atom which is in turn connected to an amino group.

The term thiocarbonyl or thiocarboxy includes compounds and moieties which contain a carbon connected with a double bond to a sulfur atom.

The term ether includes compounds or moieties which contain an oxygen bonded to two different carbon atoms or heteroatoms. For example the term includes alkoxyalkyl which refers to an alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl group covalently bonded to an oxygen atom which is covalently bonded to another alkyl group.

The term thioether includes compounds and moieties which contain a sulfur atom bonded to two different carbon or hetero atoms. Examples of thioethers include but are not limited to alkthioalkyls alkthioalkenyls and alkthioalkynyls. The term alkthioalkyls include compounds with an alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl group bonded to a sulfur atom which is bonded to an alkyl group. Similarly the term alkthioalkenyls and alkthioalkynyl refer to compounds or moieties in which an alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl group is bonded to a sulfur atom that is covalently bonded to an alkenyl or alkynyl group respectively.

The term sulfonyl includes moieties containing a sulfonyl functional group e.g. SO attached to two carbons via a covalent bond to the sulfur atom of the sulfonyl functional group.

The term heteroatom includes atoms of any element other than carbon or hydrogen. Preferred heteroatoms are nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus.

The invention provides methods also referred to herein as screening assays for identifying modulators i.e. candidate or test compounds or agents e.g. peptidomimetics small molecules or other drugs which modulate for example one or more biological activities of an RNA binding protein e.g. the ability to 1 interact e.g. bind e.g. form a complex with an RNA molecule e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding recognition element of the RNA binding protein 2 modulate embryogenesis 3 modulate cell viability 4 modulate anterior patterning 5 modulate germ cell totipotency 6 modulate development of the intestine 7 modulate development of germline blastomeres 8 modulate development of pharyngeal tissue 9 modulate expression and or activity of a gene known to be directly or indirectly regulated by the RNA binding protein e.g. PAL 1 NOS 2 APX 1 protein and GLD 1 10 modulate tubercle formation or for testing or optimizing the activity of such agents.

The assays can be used to identify agents that modulate the function of an RNA binding protein or a molecule in a signal transduction pathway involving the RNA binding protein. The function of an RNA binding protein can be affected at any level including transcription protein expression protein localization and or cellular activity. The subject assays can also be used to identify e.g. agents that alter the interaction of an RNA binding protein with a binding partner e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element or modulate e.g. inhibit the stability of such interaction.

The subject screening assays can measure the activity of an RNA binding protein directly e.g. formation of a complex with an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element or can measure a downstream event controlled by modulation of the RNA binding protein e.g. embryogenesis cell differentiation expression and or activity of a gene known to be directly or indirectly regulated by the RNA binding protein e.g. PAL 1 NOS 2 APX 1 protein and GLD 1 .

The subject screening assays employ indicator compositions. These indicator compositions comprise the components required for performing an assay that detects and or measures a particular event. The indicator compositions of the invention provide a reference readout and changes in the readout can be monitored in the presence of one or more test compounds. A difference in the readout in the presence and the absence of the compound indicates that the test compound is a modulator of the molecule s present in the indicator composition.

The indicator composition used in the screening assay can be a cell that expresses an RNA binding protein and or an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element. For example a cell that naturally expresses or more preferably a cell that has been engineered to express the protein and or the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element by introducing into the cell an expression vector encoding the protein may be used. The cell may be a helminth cell a plant cell a yeast cell a bacterial cell or a mammalian cell e.g. a human cell. Alternatively the indicator composition can be a cell free composition that includes the protein and or the RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element e.g. a cell extract or a composition that includes e.g. either purified natural or recombinant protein and or RNA .

The indicator compositions used in the screening assays of the invention can be a cell that expresses an RNA binding protein or biologically active fragment thereof e.g. a fragment of the protein that interacts e.g. binds to an RNA binding protein recognition element e.g. a fragment comprising a CCCH type tandem zinc finger or a KH domain.

In another embodiment the indicator composition comprises more than one polypeptide. For example in one embodiment the subject assays are performed in the presence of more than one RNA binding protein e.g. MEX 5 GLP 1 NOS 2 MEX 6 POS 1 MEX 3 PAL 1. It will be understood that in addition to the recited proteins e.g. helminth proteins e.g. nematode proteins suitable proteins for use in the methods of the invention include plant and mammalian homologues of such proteins e.g. TTP the mammalian homologue of MEX 5. One of ordinary skill in the art can identify such proteins based on sequence and or database and or homology searching and analyses.

Compounds that modulate the expression and or activity of an RNA binding protein identified using the assays described herein can be useful for treating a subject that would benefit from the modulation of expression and or activity of the RNA binding protein e.g. a subject with a parasitic associate state.

In one embodiment secondary assays can be used to confirm that the modulating agent affects the RNA binding protein molecule in a specific manner. For example compounds identified in a primary screening assay can be used in a secondary tertiary etc. screening assay to determine whether the compound affects an RNA binding protein related activity as described herein. Accordingly in another aspect the invention pertains to a combination of two or more of the assays described herein. For example a modulating agent can be identified using a cell based or a cell free assay e.g. to detect an interaction e.g. formation of a complex and the ability of the agent to modulate the activity of the RNA binding protein or a molecule involved in a signal transduction pathway involving the RNA binding protein can be confirmed using a biological read out to measure e.g. embryogenesis an immune response e.g. cytokine production in vitro or in vivo.

Moreover a modulator of an RNA binding protein expression and or activity identified as described herein e.g. a small molecule may be used in an animal model and or plant model to determine the efficacy toxicity or side effects of treatment with such a modulator. Alternatively a modulator identified as described herein may be used in an animal model to determine the mechanism of action of such a modulator. An example of a nematode parasite model that may be used to evaluate the efficacy of treatment of nematode parasitism with an RNA binding modulatory compound identified herein is described for example in Lok J. B. 2007 WormBook ed. The Research Community WormBook doi 10.1895 wormbook.1.134.1 at www.wormbook.org the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference. is a significant pathogen of humans and can be maintained in laboratory dogs and gerbils. Examples of animal models that may be used to determine the efficacy of treatment of nematode parasitism with an RNA binding modulatory compound identified herein are described for example in Camberis M. et al. 2003 Current Protocols in Immunology 19.12.1 19.12.27 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the screening assays of the invention are high throughput or ultra high throughput e.g. Fernandes P. B. Curr Opin Chem Biol. 1998 2 597 Sundberg S A Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2000 11 47 .

The indicator compositions of the invention may be cells that express an RNA binding protein and or an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element. For example a cell that naturally expresses endogenous polypeptide and or RNA molecule or more preferably a cell that has been engineered to express one or more exogenous polypeptides and or RNA molecules e.g. by introducing into the cell an expression vector encoding the protein may be used in a cell based assay.

The cells used in the instant assays can be eukaryotic or prokaryotic in origin. For example in one embodiment the cell is a bacterial cell. In one embodiment the cell is a helminth e.g. nematode cell. In another embodiment the cell is a plant cell. In another embodiment the cell is a fungal cell e.g. a yeast cell. In another embodiment the cell is a vertebrate cell e.g. an avian or a mammalian cell e.g. a murine cell rat cell rhesus monkey or a human cell . In another embodiment the cell is a human cell.

In another embodiment cells for use in the methods of the invention are derived from a cell line preferably one which expresses low levels of endogenous RNA binding protein and or an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element and is then engineered to express recombinant protein and or RNA.

Recombinant expression vectors that may be used for expression of polypeptides are known in the art. For example the cDNA is first introduced into a recombinant expression vector using standard molecular biology techniques. A cDNA can be obtained for example by amplification using the polymerase chain reaction PCR or by screening an appropriate cDNA library.

When used in mammalian cells the expression vector s control functions are often provided by viral regulatory elements. For example commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma virus adenovirus cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus 40. Non limiting examples of mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 Seed B. 1987 Nature 329 840 and pMT2PC Kaufman et al. 1987 EMBO J. 6 187 195 . A variety of mammalian expression vectors carrying different regulatory sequences are commercially available.

Vector DNA may be introduced into cells via conventional transfection techniques. As used herein the various forms of the term transfection are intended to refer to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acid e.g. DNA into host cells including calcium phosphate co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection or electroporation. Suitable methods for transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press 1989 and other laboratory manuals.

For stable transfection of cells it is known that depending upon the expression vector and transfection technique used only a small fraction of cells may integrate the foreign DNA into their genome. In order to identify and select these integrants a gene that encodes a selectable marker e.g. resistance to antibiotics is generally introduced into the host cells along with the gene of interest. Preferred selectable markers include those which confer resistance to drugs such as G418 hygromycin and methotrexate. Nucleic acid encoding a selectable marker can be introduced into a host cell on a separate vector from that encoding an RNA binding protein and or an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element on the same vector. Cells stably transfected with the introduced nucleic acid can be identified by drug selection e.g. cells that have incorporated the selectable marker gene will survive while the other cells die .

In one embodiment within the expression vector coding sequences are operatively linked to regulatory sequences that allow for constitutive expression of the molecule in the indicator cell e.g. viral regulatory sequences such as a cytomegalovirus promoter enhancer may be used . Use of a recombinant expression vector that allows for constitutive expression of the genes in the indicator cell is preferred for identification of compounds that enhance or inhibit the activity of the molecule. In an alternative embodiment within the expression vector the coding sequences are operatively linked to regulatory sequences of the endogenous gene i.e. the promoter regulatory region derived from the endogenous gene . Use of a recombinant expression vector in which expression is controlled by the endogenous regulatory sequences is preferred for identification of compounds that enhance or inhibit the transcriptional expression of the molecule.

For example an indicator cell can be transfected with an expression vector comprising an RNA binding protein or biologically active fragment thereof incubated in the presence and in the absence of a test compound and the effect of the compound on the expression and or activity of the molecule or on a biological response regulated by the RNA binding protein e.g. an RNA binding protein related activity can be determined. The biological activities of an RNA binding protein include activities determined in vivo or in vitro according to standard techniques. Activity can be a direct activity such as an association with a target molecule e.g. an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element . Alternatively activity may be an indirect activity such as for example a cellular signaling activity occurring downstream of the interaction of the protein with a target molecule or a biological effect occurring as a result of the signaling cascade triggered by that interaction such as embryogenesis and or cell differentiation.

Compounds that modulate RNA binding protein production expression and or activity of may be identified using various read outs. 

For example in one embodiment gene expression of an RNA binding protein can be measured. In another embodiment expression of a gene controlled by an RNA binding protein can be measured.

In another embodiment protein expression may be measured. For example standard techniques such as Western blotting or in situ detection can be used.

In one embodiment a downstream effect of modulation of an RNA binding protein e.g. the effect of a compound on cell viability and or embryogenesis and or tubercle formation in a plant may be used as an indicator of modulation of the activity of an RNA binding protein by for example monitoring directly e.g. by microscopic examination of the cells or indirectly e.g. by monitoring one or more markers of for example embryogenesis.

Standard methods for detecting mRNA of interest such as reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR and Northern blotting are known in the art. Standard methods for detecting protein secretion in culture supernatants such as enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA are also known in the art. Proteins can also be detected using antibodies e.g. in an immunoprecipitation reaction or for staining and FACS analysis.

The ability of the test compound to modulate an RNA binding molecule interaction with a target molecule can also be determined. For example in one embodiment the interaction of an RNA binding molecule and an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element can be measured as described in for example Pagano et al. 2007 J. Biol. Chem. 282 8883 and Farley et al. 2008 RNA 14 2685. In certain embodiments of the invention the RNA binding protein recognition element comprises the consensus sequence UA U RD N G. In still other embodiments of the invention the RNA binding protein recognition element comprises the consensus sequence DKAG N UHUA. In one embodiment the RNA binding protein recognition element i.e. DKAG N UHUA binds with MEX 3. In another embodiment the RNA binding protein recognition element i.e. UA U RD N G binds with POS 1.

Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate for example an RNA binding molecule binding to a target molecule e.g. a target RNA molecule e.g. an RNA binding protein recognition element can also be accomplished for example by determining the ability of the molecules to be coimmunoprecipitated or by coupling the target molecule with a radioisotope or enzymatic label such that binding of the target molecule to an RNA binding molecule or an RNA binding molecule interacting polypeptide can be determined e.g. by detecting the labeled target molecule in a complex. Alternatively for example an RNA binding molecule can be coupled with a radioisotope or enzymatic label to monitor the ability of a test compound to modulate an RNA binding molecule binding to a target molecule in a complex.

Determining the ability of the test compound to interact with an RNA binding molecule can be accomplished for example by coupling the compound with a radioisotope or enzymatic label such that interaction of the compound can be determined by detecting the labeled compound in a complex. For example targets can be labeled with 125I 35S 14C or 3H either directly or indirectly and the radioisotope detected by direct counting of radioemmission or by scintillation counting. Alternatively compounds can be labeled e.g. with for example horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase or luciferase and the enzymatic label detected by determination of conversion of an appropriate substrate to product.

In another embodiment fluorescence technologies can be used e.g. fluorescence polarization time resolved fluorescence and fluorescence resonance energy transfer Selvin P R Nat. Struct. Biol. 2000 7 730 Hertzberg R P and Pope A J Curr Opin Chem Biol. 2000 4 445 .

It is also within the scope of this invention to determine the ability of a compound to interact with an RNA binding protein without the labeling of any of the interactants. For example a microphysiometer may be used to detect the interaction of a compound with a an RNA binding protein without the labeling of either the compound or the molecule McConnell H. M. et al. 1992 Science 257 1906 1912 . As used herein a microphysiometer e.g. Cytosensor is an analytical instrument that measures the rate at which a cell acidifies its environment using a light addressable potentiometric sensor LAPS . Changes in this acidification rate may be used as an indicator of the interaction between compounds.

In yet another aspect of the invention an RNA binding protein or fragments thereof may be used as bait protein e.g. in a two hybrid assay or three hybrid assay see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 283 317 Zervos et al. 1993 Cell 72 223 232 Madura et al. 11993 J. Biol. Chem. 268 12046 12054 Bartel et al. 1993 Biotechniques 14 920 924 Iwabuchi et al. 1993 Oncogene 8 1693 1696 and Brent WO94 10300 to identify other proteins which bind to or interact with an RNA binding protein binding proteins or bp and are involved in an RNA binding protein activity. Such proteins are also likely to be involved in the propagation of signals by the RNA binding protein. The two hybrid system is based on the modular nature of most transcription factors which consist of separable DNA binding and activation domains. Briefly the assay utilizes two different DNA constructs. In one construct the gene that codes for an RNA binding protein is fused to a gene encoding the DNA binding domain of a known transcription factor e.g. GAL 4 . In the other construct a DNA sequence from a library of DNA sequences that encodes an unidentified protein prey or sample is fused to a gene that codes for the activation domain of the known transcription factor. If the bait and the prey proteins are able to interact in vivo forming an RNA binding protein dependent complex the DNA binding and activation domains of the transcription factor are brought into close proximity. This proximity allows transcription of a reporter gene e.g. LacZ which is operably linked to a transcriptional regulatory site responsive to the transcription factor. Expression of the reporter gene can be detected and cell colonies containing the functional transcription factor can be isolated and used to obtain the cloned gene which encodes the protein which interacts with the RNA binding protein.

Alternatively the indicator composition can be a cell free composition that includes an RNA binding protein e.g. a cell extract from a cell expressing the protein or a composition that includes purified either natural or recombinant protein.

In one embodiment the indicator composition is a cell free composition. Polypeptides expressed by recombinant methods in a host cells or culture medium can be isolated from the host cells or cell culture medium using standard methods for protein purification. For example ion exchange chromatography gel filtration chromatography ultrafiltration electrophoresis and immunoaffinity purification with antibodies may be used to produce a purified or semi purified protein that may be used in a cell free composition. Alternatively a lysate or an extract of cells expressing the protein of interest can be prepared for use as cell free composition. Cell extracts with the appropriate post translation modifications of proteins can be prepared using commercially available resources found at for example Promega Inc.

In one embodiment compounds that specifically modulate an activity of an RNA binding protein may be identified. For example compounds that modulate an activity of an RNA binding protein are identified based on their ability to modulate the interaction of an RNA binding protein with a target molecule to which the RNA binding protein binds e.g. RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element. Suitable assays are known in the art that allow for the detection of protein protein interactions e.g. immunoprecipitations and the like or that allow for the detection of interactions between a DNA or RNA binding protein and a target DNA or RNA sequence e.g. electrophoretic mobility shift assays DNAse I footprinting assays and the like . By performing such assays in the presence and absence of test compounds these assays may be used to identify compounds that modulate e.g. inhibit or enhance the interaction of an RNA binding protein with a target molecule.

In the methods of the invention for identifying test compounds that modulate an interaction between an RNA binding protein and a target molecule the complete RNA binding protein may be used in the method or alternatively only portions of the protein may be used. For example an isolated CCH type tandem zinger finder domain or a KH domain may be used. An assay may be used to identify test compounds that either stimulate or inhibit the interaction between the an RNA binding protein and a target molecule. A test compound that stimulates the interaction between the protein and a target molecule is identified based upon its ability to increase the degree of interaction as compared to the degree of interaction in the absence of the test compound and such a compound would be expected to e.g. increase the activity of an RNA binding protein in the cell. A test compound that inhibits the interaction between the protein and a target molecule is identified based upon its ability to decrease the degree of interaction between the protein and a target molecule as compared to the degree of interaction in the absence of the compound and such a compound would be expected to e.g. decrease RNA binding protein activity.

In one embodiment the amount of binding of an RNA binding protein to an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element in the presence of the test compound is greater than the amount of binding in the absence of the test compound in which case the test compound is identified as a compound that enhances binding of an RNA binding protein to an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element. In another embodiment the amount of binding of the RNA binding protein to an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element in the presence of the test compound is less than the amount of binding of an RNA binding protein to an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element in the absence of the test compound in which case the test compound is identified as a compound that inhibits binding of an RNA binding protein to an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element.

For example interaction e.g. formation of a complex of the test compound to an RNA binding protein can be determined either directly or indirectly as described above. Determining the ability of an RNA binding protein to interact with a test compound can also be accomplished using a technology such as real time Biomolecular Interaction Analysis BIA Sjolander S and Urbaniczky C. 1991 Anal. Chem. 63 2338 2345 Szabo et al. 1995 Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 5 699 705 . As used herein BIA is a technology for studying biospecific interactions in real time without labeling any of the interactants e.g. BIAcore . Changes in the optical phenomenon of surface plasmon resonance SPR may be used as an indication of real time reactions between biological molecules.

In one embodiment of the above assay methods it may be desirable to immobilize either an RNA binding protein or an RNA molecule comprising an RNA binding protein recognition element for example to facilitate separation of complexed from uncomplexed forms of one or both of the molecules or to accommodate automation of the assay. Binding to a surface can be accomplished in any vessel suitable for containing the reactants. Examples of Such vessels include microtitre plates test tubes and micro centrifuge tubes. In one embodiment a fusion protein can be provided in which a domain that allows one or both of the proteins to be bound to a matrix is added to one or more of the molecules. For example glutathione S transferase fusion proteins or glutathione S transferase target fusion proteins can be adsorbed onto glutathione sepharose beads Sigma Chemical St. Louis Mo. or glutathione derivatized microtitre plates which are then combined with the test compound or the test compound and either the non adsorbed target protein or RNA binding protein and the mixture incubated under conditions conducive to complex formation e.g. at physiological conditions for salt and pH . Following incubation the beads or microtitre plate wells are washed to remove any unbound components the matrix is immobilized in the case of beads and complex formation is determined either directly or indirectly for example as described above. Alternatively the complexes can be dissociated from the matrix and the level of binding or activity determined using standard techniques.

Other techniques for immobilizing proteins on matrices can also be used in the screening assays of the invention. For example proteins may be immobilized utilizing conjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Biotinylated protein or target molecules can be prepared from biotin NHS N hydroxy succinimide using techniques known in the art e.g. biotinylation kit Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin coated 96 well plates Pierce Chemical . Alternatively antibodies which are reactive with protein or target molecules but which do not interfere with binding of the protein to its target molecule can be derivatized to the wells of the plate and unbound target or SLIM protein is trapped in the wells by antibody conjugation. Methods for detecting such complexes in addition to those described above for the GST immobilized complexes include immunodetection of complexes using antibodies reactive with an RNA binding protein.

A variety of test compounds can be evaluated using the screening assays described herein. The term test compound includes any reagent or test agent which is employed in the assays of the invention and assayed. More than one compound e.g. a plurality of compounds can be tested at the same time in a screening assay. The term screening assay preferably refers to assays which test the ability of a plurality of compounds to influence the readout of choice rather than to tests which test the ability of one compound to influence a readout. Preferably the subject assays identify compounds not previously known to have the effect that is being screened for. In one embodiment high throughput screening may be used to assay for the activity of a compound.

In certain embodiments the compounds to be tested can be derived from libraries i.e. are members of a library of compounds . While the use of libraries of peptides is well established in the art new techniques have been developed which have allowed the production of mixtures of other compounds Such as benzodiazepines Bunin et al. 1992 . J. Am. Chem. Soc. 114 10987 DeWitt et al. 1993 . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6909 peptoids Zuckerman. 1994 . J. Med. Chem. 37 2678 oligocarbamates Cho et al. 1993 . Science. 261 11303 and hydantoins DeWitt et al. supra . An approach for the synthesis of molecular libraries of small organic molecules with a diversity of 104 105 as been described Carell et al. 1994 . Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2059 Carell et al. 1994 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2061 .

The compounds of the present invention can be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art including biological libraries spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries synthetic library methods requiring deconvolution the one bead one compound library method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is limited to peptide libraries while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide non peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds Lam K. S. 1997 Anticancer Drug Des. 12 145 . Other exemplary methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in Erb et al. 1994 . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 11422 Horwell et al. 1996 Immunopharmacology 33 68 and in Gallop et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 1233.

Exemplary compounds which can be screened for activity include but are not limited to peptides nucleic acids carbohydrates small organic molecules and natural product extract libraries.

Candidate test compounds include for example 1 peptides such as soluble peptides including Ig tailed fusion peptides and members of random peptide libraries see e.g. Lam K. S. et al. 1991 Nature 354 82 84 Houghten R. et al. 1991 Nature 354 84 86 and combinatorial chemistry derived molecular libraries made of D and or L configuration amino acids 2 phosphopeptides e.g. members of random and partially degenerate directed phosphopeptide libraries see e.g. Songyang Z. et al. 1993 Cell 72 767 778 3 antibodies e.g. antibodies e.g. intracellular polyclonal monoclonal humanized anti idiotypic chimeric and single chain antibodies as well as Fab F ab 2 Fab expression library fragments and epitope binding fragments of antibodies 4 small organic and inorganic molecules e.g. molecules obtained from combinatorial and natural product libraries 5 enzymes e.g. endoribonucleases hydrolases nucleases proteases synthatases isomerases polymerases kinases phosphatases oxido reductases and ATPases and 6 mutant forms of molecules.

The test compounds of the present invention can be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art including biological libraries spatially addressable parallel solid phase or Solution phase libraries synthetic library methods requiring deconvolution the one bead one compound library method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is limited to peptide libraries while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide non peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds Lam K. S. 1997 Anticancer Drug Des. 12 145 .

Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in DeWitt et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 6909 Erb et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 11422 Zuckermann et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 2678 Cho et al. 1993 Science 261 1303 Carrell et al. 1994 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2059 Carell et al. 1994 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2061 and Gallop et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 1233.

Libraries of compounds can be presented in solution e.g. Houghten 1992 Biotechniques 13 412 421 or on beads Lam 1991 Nature 354 82 84 chips Fodor 1993 Nature 364 555 556 bacteria Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 spores Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 409 plasmids Cull et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 1865 1869 or phage Scott and Smith 1990 Science 249 386 390 Devlin 1990 Science 249 404 406 Cwirla et al. 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 6378 6382 Felici 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 301 310 Ladner supra. .

Compounds identified in the subject screening assays may be used e.g. in methods of modulating embryogenesis a parasitic associated state. It will be understood that it may be desirable to formulate such compound s as pharmaceutical compositions described supra prior to contacting them with cells.

Once a test compound is identified that directly or indirectly modulates e.g. inhibits an RNA binding protein activity by one of the variety of methods described herein the selected test compound or compound of interest can then be further evaluated for its effect on cells for example by contacting the compound of interest with cells either in vivo e.g. by administering the compound of interest to a subject or ex vivo e.g. by isolating cells from the subject and contacting the isolated cells with the compound of interest or alternatively by contacting the compound of interest with a cell line and determining the effect of the compound of interest on the cells as compared to an appropriate control such as untreated cells or cells treated with a control compound or carrier that does not modulate the biological response .

The invention also pertains to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Each of these compounds may be used alone or in combination as a part of a pharmaceutical composition of the invention.

In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 is administered in combination with an additional agent e.g. an anti helminthic agent. The language in combination with an additional agent e.g. an antihelminthic agent includes co administration of the compound with an additional agent e.g. an antihelminthic agent administration of the compound first followed by administration of an additional agent e.g. an antihelminthic agent and administration of an additional agent e.g. antihelminthic agent first followed by administration of the compound. The compound can be administered substantially at the same time as the additional agent e.g. antihelminthic agent or at substantially different times as the additional agent e.g. antihelminthic agent. Optimal administration rates for a given protocol of administration of the compound and or the additional agent e.g. antihelminthic agent can be readily ascertained by those skilled in the art using conventional dosage determination tests conducted with regard to the specific compounds being utilized the particular compositions formulated the mode of application the particular site of administration and the like.

The phrases anti helmintic agent and anti helminthic agent used interchangeably herein include compounds that expel parasitic worms from the body of a subject. In one embodiment the anti helmintic agent is a vermifuge agent e.g. a compound that stuns the parasitic worm prior to or substantially at the same time as the expelling . In another embodiment the anti helmintic agent is a vermicide e.g. a compound that kills the parasitic worm prior to or substantially at the same time as the expelling . Examples of anti helmintic agents include but are not limited to abamectin e.g. Affirm Agri Mek Avermectin Avid Vertimec or Zephyr praziquantel e.g. Biltricide albendazole e.g. Albenza Eskazole or Zentel diethylcarbamazine e.g. Hetrazan Carbilazine Caricide Cypip Ethodryl Notezine Spatonin Filaribits or Banocide Forte mebendazole e.g. Ovex Vermox or Antiox niclosamide e.g. Niclocide ivermectin e.g. Stromectol Mectizan or Ivexterm suramin e.g. Germanin thiabendazole e.g. Mintezol Tresaderm or Arbotect pyrantel pamoate levamisole e.g. Ergamisol triclabendazole e.g. Fasonex flubendazole e.g. Flutelmium Flubenol Biovermin or Flumoxal fenbendazole e.g. Panacur Safe Guard or Panacur Rabbit octadepsipeptide e.g. emodepside piperazine derivatives amino acetonitrile derivatives e.g. monepantel Zolvix oxamniquine e.g. Vansil or Mansil metrifonate e.g. trichlorfon bithionol niridazole e.g. Ambilgar stibophen ciclobendazole oxantel pyrvinium bephenium desapidin and dichlorophen. One of skill in the art using conventional medical diagnoses would be able to determine the appropriate anti helmintic agent to administer in combination with the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. the compounds of a compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2.

The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 that are basic in nature are capable of forming a wide variety of pharmaceutically acceptable salts with various inorganic and organic acids. The acids that may be used to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds disclosed herein that are basic in nature are those that form non toxic acid addition salts i.e. salts containing pharmaceutically acceptable anions such as the hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide nitrate sulfate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate acetate lactate salicylate citrate acid citrate tartrate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucaronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and palmoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. Although such salts must be pharmaceutically acceptable for administration to a subject e.g. a mammal it is often desirable in practice to initially isolate the compound from the reaction mixture as a pharmaceutically unacceptable salt and then simply convert the latter back to the free base compound by treatment with an alkaline reagent and subsequently convert the latter free base to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. The acid addition salts of the base compounds are readily prepared by treating the base compound with a substantially equivalent amount of the chosen mineral or organic acid in an aqueous solvent medium or in a suitable organic solvent such as methanol or ethanol. Upon careful evaporation of the solvent the desired solid salt is readily obtained. The preparation of other compounds not specifically described in the experimental section can be accomplished using combinations of the described reactions that will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 that are acidic in nature are capable of forming a wide variety of pharmaceutically acceptable base salts. The chemical bases that may be used as reagents to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable base salts of those compounds that are acidic in nature are those that form non toxic base salts with such compounds. Such non toxic base salts include but are not limited to those derived from such pharmaceutically acceptable cations such as alkali metal cations e.g. potassium and sodium and alkaline earth metal cations e.g. calcium and magnesium ammonium or water soluble amine addition salts such as N methylglucamine meglumine and the lower alkanolamnionium and other base salts of pharmaceutically acceptable organic amines. The pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of the compounds that are acidic in nature may be formed with pharmaceutically acceptable cations by conventional methods. Thus these salts may be readily prepared by treating the compounds disclosed herein with an aqueous solution of the desired pharmaceutically acceptable cation and evaporating the resulting solution to dryness preferably under reduced pressure. Alternatively a lower alkyl alcohol solution of the compounds of the invention may be mixed with an alkoxide of the desired metal and the solution subsequently evaporated to dryness.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any carrier that is suitable for administration to a mammal.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microbes may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like into the compositions. In addition prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin. In some cases in order to prolong the effect of a drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material having poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered to a subject e.g. a non human animal or a human orally parenterally topically rectally nasally intravaginally or intracisternally. They are of course given by forms suitable for each administration route. For example they are administered in tablets or capsule form by injection inhalation eye lotion ointment etc. administration by injection infusion or inhalation topical by lotion or ointment and rectal or vaginal suppositories.

The phrases parenteral administration and administered parenterally as used herein include modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration usually by injection and includes without limitation intravenous intramuscular intraarterial intrathecal intracapsular intraorbital intracardiac intradermal intraperitoneal transtracheal subcutaneous subcuticular intraarticular subcapsular subarachnoid intraspinal and intrasternal injection and infusion.

The phrases systemic administration administered systemically peripheral administration and administered peripherally as used herein includes the administration of the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 other than directly into the central nervous system such that it enters the subject s system and thus is subject to metabolism and other like processes for example subcutaneous administration.

In some methods the compositions of the invention can be topically administered to any epithelial surface. An epithelial surface includes an area of tissue that covers external surfaces of a body or which lines hollow structures including but not limited to cutaneous and mucosal surfaces. Such epithelial surfaces include oral pharyngeal esophageal pulmonary ocular aural nasal buccal lingual vaginal cervical genitourinary alimentary and anorectal surfaces.

Compositions can be formulated in a variety of conventional forms employed for topical administration. These include for example semi solid and liquid dosage forms such as liquid solutions or suspensions suppositories douches enemas gels creams emulsions lotions slurries powders sprays lipsticks foams pastes toothpastes ointments salves balms douches drops troches chewing gums lozenges mouthwashes rinses.

Conventionally used carriers for topical applications include pectin gelatin and derivatives thereof polylactic acid or polyglycolic acid polymers or copolymers thereof cellulose derivatives such as methyl cellulose carboxymethyl cellulose or oxidized cellulose guar gum acacia gum karaya gum tragacanth gum bentonite agar carbomer bladderwrack ceratonia dextran and derivatives thereof ghatti gum hectorite ispaghula husk polyvinypyrrolidone silica and derivatives thereof xanthan gum kaolin talc starch and derivatives thereof paraffin water vegetable and animal oils polyethylene polyethylene oxide polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol glycerol ethanol propanol propylene glycol glycols alcohols fixed oils sodium potassium aluminum magnesium or calcium salts such as chloride carbonate bicarbonate citrate gluconate lactate acetate gluceptate or tartrate .

Standard composition strategies for topical agents can be applied to the RNA binding modulatory compounds of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in order to enhance the persistence and residence time of the drug and to improve the prophylactic efficacy achieved.

For topical application to be used in the lower intestinal tract or vaginally a rectal suppository a suitable enema a gel an ointment a solution a suspension or an insert can be used. Topical transdermal patches may also be used. Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of the compositions of the invention to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispersing the agent in the proper medium.

Compositions of the invention can be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal or vaginal administration. These can be prepared by mixing the agent with a suitable non irritating carrier which is solid at room temperature but liquid at rectal temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vagina to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter beeswax polyethylene glycols a suppository wax or a salicylate that is solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active agent. Compositions which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams films or spray compositions containing such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate. The carrier employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention should be compatible with vaginal administration.

For ophthalmic applications the pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated as micronized suspensions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline or preferably as solutions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline either with or without a preservative such as benzylalkonium chloride. Alternatively for ophthalmic uses the compositions can be formulated in an ointment such as petrolatum. Exemplary ophthalmic compositions include eye ointments powders solutions and the like.

Powders and sprays can contain in addition to the compound of the invention carriers such as lactose talc aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

Ordinarily an aqueous aerosol is made by formulating an aqueous solution or suspension of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 together with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and stabilizers. The carriers and stabilizers vary with the requirements of the particular compound but typically include nonionic surfactants e.g. Tweens Pluronics polyethylene glycol and the like proteins like serum albumin sorbitan esters oleic acid lecithin amino acids such as glycine buffers salts sugars or sugar alcohols. Aerosols generally are prepared from isotonic solutions. Generation of the aerosol or any other means of delivery of the present invention may be accomplished by any of the methods known in the art. For example in the case of aerosol delivery the compound is supplied in a finely divided form along with any suitable carrier with a propellant.

Liquefied propellants are typically gases at ambient conditions and are condensed under pressure. The propellant may be any acceptable and known in the art including propane and butane or other lower alkanes such as those of up to 5 carbons. The composition is held within a container with an appropriate propellant and valve and maintained at elevated pressure until released by action of the valve.

Compositions of the invention can also be orally administered in any orally acceptable dosage form including but not limited to capsules cachets pills tablets lozenges using a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth powders granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsion or as an elixir or syrup or as pastilles using an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and or as mouth washes and the like each containing a predetermined amount of sucrose octasulfate and or antibiotic or contraceptive agent s as an active ingredient. A compound described herein may also be administered as a bolus electuary or paste. In the case of tablets for oral use carriers which are commonly used include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. For oral administration in a capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried corn starch. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening flavoring or coloring agents may also be added. Tablets and other solid dosage forms such as dragees capsules pills and granules may be scored or prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile other polymer matrices liposomes and or microspheres. They may be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use. These compositions may also optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 only or preferentially in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above described excipients. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring coloring perfuming and preservative agents.

Suspensions in addition to compounds of the invention may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Sterile injectable forms of the compositions of this invention can be aqueous or oleaginous suspension. These suspensions may be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents.

Wetting agents emulsifiers and lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents release agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the compositions. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. Fatty acids such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables as are natural pharmaceutically acceptable oils such as olive oil or castor oil especially in their polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long chain alcohol diluent or dispersant. The RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof will represent some percentage of the total dose in other dosage forms in a material forming a combination product including liquid solutions or suspensions suppositories douches enemas gels creams emulsions lotions slurries soaps shampoos detergents powders sprays lipsticks foams pastes toothpastes ointments salves balms douches drops troches lozenges mouthwashes rinses and others.

In one embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered prophylactically. For prophylactic applications the pharmaceutical composition of the invention can be applied prior to potential infection. The timing of application prior to potential infection can be optimized to maximize the prophylactic effectiveness of the compound. The timing of application will vary depending on the mode of administration doses the stability and effectiveness of composition the frequency of the dosage e.g. single application or multiple dosage. One skilled in the art will be able to determine the most appropriate time interval required to maximize prophylactic effectiveness of the compound.

An RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 when present in a composition will generally be present in an amount from about 0.000001 to about 100 more preferably from about 0.001 to about 50 and most preferably from about 0.01 to about 25 of total weight.

For compositions of the present invention comprising a carrier the composition comprises for example from about 1 to about 99 preferably from about 50 to about 99 and most preferably from about 75 to about 99 by weight of at least one carrier.

Also the separate components of the compositions of the invention may be preblended or each component may be added separately to the same environment according to a predetermined dosage for the purpose of achieving the desired concentration level of the treatment components and so long as the components eventually come into intimate admixture with each other. Further the present invention may be administered or delivered on a continuous or intermittent basis.

The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be used in the veterinary sector in any technique routine to one of skill in the art including for example oral administration parenterally e.g. intraruminal intramuscular intravenous or subcutaneous injection or by transdermal methods. The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may also be dispersed or dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for injection or transdermal application. Alternatively the RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be formulated into an implant for subcutaneous administration.

For oral administration to warm blooded animals the RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be formulated as animal feeds animal feed premixes animal feed concentrates pills pastes suspensions solutions gels tablets boluses and capsules. In addition the an RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be administered to the animals in their drinking water.

For oral administration the dosage form chosen should provide the animal with about 0.01 mg kg to 100 mg kg of animal body weight per day of the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2. For parenteral administration the dosage form chosen should provide the animal with about 0.01 mg kg to 100 mg kg of animal body weight per day of the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2.

The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may also be applied topically to the animals in the form of dips dusts collars medallions sprays and pour on formulations. For topical application dips and sprays usually contain about 0.5 ppm to 5 000 ppm or about 1 ppm to 3 000 ppm of the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2. In addition the RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be formulated as ear tags for animals particularly quadrupeds such as cattle and sheep.

The invention also pertains to pesticidal compositions comprising a pesticidally effective amount of an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 and an agronomically acceptable carrier. Each of these compounds may be used alone or in combination as a part of a pesticidal composition of the invention.

In one embodiment the RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 is administered in combination with an agricultural agent. The language in combination with an agricultural agent includes co administration of the compound and with an agricultural agent administration of the compound first followed by administration of an agricultural agent and administration of an agricultural agent first followed by administration of the compound. The compound can be administered substantially at the same time as the agricultural agent or at substantially different times as the agricultural agent. Optimal administration rates for a given protocol of administration of the compound and or the agricultural agent can be readily ascertained by those skilled in the art using conventional determination tests conducted with regard to the specific compounds being utilized the particular compositions formulated the mode of application the particular site of administration and the like.

The term agricultural agent includes for example insecticides attractants sterilizing agents bactericides acaricides nematicides fungicides growth regulating substances fertilizers or herbicides such as aldimorph ampropylfos ampropylfos potassium andoprim anilazine azaconazole azoxystrobin benalaxyl benodanil benomyl benzamacril benzamacryl isobutyl bialaphos binapacryl biphenyl bitertanol blasticidin S bromuconazole bupirimate buthiobate calcium polysulphide capsimycin captafol captan carbendazim carboxin carvon quinomethionate chlobenthiazone chlorfenazole chloroneb chloropicrin chlorothalonil chlozolinate clozylacon cufraneb cymoxanil cyproconazole cyprodinil cyprofuram debacarb dichlorophen diclobutrazole diclofluanid diclomezine dicloran diethofencarb difenoconazole dimethirimol dimethomorph diniconazole diniconazole M dinocap diphenylamine dipyrithione ditalimfos dithianon dodemorph dodine drazoxolon edifenphos epoxiconazole etaconazole ethirimol etridiazole famoxadon fenapanil fenarimol fenbuconazole fenfuram fenitropan fenpiclonil fenpropidin fenpropimorph fentin acetate fentin hydroxide ferbam ferimzone fluazinam flumetover fluoromide fluquinconazole flurprimidol flusilazole flusulfamide flutolanil flutriafol folpet fosetyl aluminium fosetyl sodium fthalide fuberidazole furalaxyl furametpyr furcarbonil furconazole furconazole cis furmecyclox guazatine hexachlorobenzene hexaconazole hymexazole imazalil imibenconazole iminoctadine iminoctadine albesilate iminoctadine triacetate iodocarb ipconazole iprobenfos IBP iprodione irumamycin isoprothiolane isovaledione kasugamycin kresoxim methyl copper preparations such as copper hydroxide copper naphthenate copper oxychloride copper sulphate copper oxide oxine copper and Bordeaux mixture mancopper mancozeb maneb meferimzone mepanipyrim mepronil metalaxyl metconazole methasulfocarb methfuroxam metiram metomeclam metsulfovax mildiomycin myclobutanil myclozolin nickel dimethyldithiocarbamate nitrothal isopropyl nuarimol ofurace oxadixyl oxamocarb oxolinic acid oxycarboxim oxyfenthiin paclobutrazole pefurazoate penconazole pencycuron phosdiphen pimaricin piperalin polyoxin polyoxorim probenazole prochloraz procymidone propamocarb propanosine sodium propiconazole propineb pyrazophos pyrifenox pyrimethanil pyroquilon pyroxyfur quinconazole quintozene PCNB sulphur and sulphur preparations tebuconazole tecloftalam tecnazene tetcyclasis tetraconazole thiabendazole thicyofen thifluzamide thiophanate methyl thiram tioxymid tolclofos methyl tolylfluanid triadimefon triadimenol triazbutil triazoxide triichlamide tricyclazole tridemorph triflumizole triforine triticonazole uniconazole validamycin A vinclozolin viniconazole zarilamide zineb ziram Dagger G OK 8705 OK 8801 . 1 1 dimethylethyl 2 phenoxyethyl 1H 1 2 4 triazole 1 ethanol 2 4 dichlorophenyl fluoro propyl 1H 1 2 4 triazole 1 ethanol 2 4 dichlorophenyl methoxy methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazole 1 ethanol 5 methyl 1 3 dioxan 5 yl 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methylene 1H 1 2 4 triazole 1 ethanol 5RS 6RS 6 hydroxy 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 5 1H 1 2 4 triazol 1 yl 3 octanone E methoxyimino N methyl 2 phenoxy phenylacetamide 1 isopropyl2 methyl 1 1 4 methylphenyl ethyl amino carbonyl propyl carbamate 1 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 1H 1 2 4 triazol 1 yl ethanone O phenylmethyl oxime 1 2 methyl 1 naphthalenyl 1H pyrrol 2 5 dione 1 3 5 dichlorophenyl 3 2 propenyl 2 5 pyrrolidindione 1 diiodomethyl sulphonyl 4 methyl benzene 1 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl 1 3 dioxolan 2 yl methyl 1H imidazole 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 phenyloxiranyl methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazole 1 1 2 2 4 dichlorophenyl methoxy phenyl ethenyl 1H imidazole 1 methyl 5 nonyl 2 phenylmethyl 3 pyrrolidinole. 2 6 dibromo 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethoxy 4 trifluoro methyl 1 3 thiazole 5 carboxanilide 2 2 dichloro N 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 1 ethyl 3 methyl cyclopropanecarboxamide 2 6 dichloro 5 methylthio 4 pyrimidinyl thiocyanate 2 6 dichloro N 4 trifluoromethylbenzyl benzamide 2 6 dichloro N 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl methyl benzamide 2 2 3 3 triiodo 2 propenyl 2H tetrazole 2 1 methylethyl sulphonyl 5 trichloromethyl 1 3 4 thiadiazole 2 6 deoxy 4 O 4 O methyl D glycopyranosyl D glucopyranosyl amino 4 methoxy 1H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 5 carbonitrile 2 aminobutane 2 bromo 2 bromomethyl pentanedinitrile 2 chloro N 2 3 dihydro 1 1 3 trimethyl 1H inden 4 yl 3 pyridinecarboxamide 2 chloro N 2 6 dimethylphenyl N isothiocyanatomethyl acetamide 2 phenylphenol OPP 3 4 dichloro 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 1H pyrrol 2 5 dione 3 5 dichloro N cyano 1 methyl 2 propynyl oxy methyl benzamide 3 1 1 dimethylpropyl 1 oxo 1H indene 2 carbonitrile 3 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 ethoxy 3 isoxazolidinyl pyridine 4 chloro 2 cyano N N dimethyl 5 4 methylphenyl 1H imidazole 1 sulphonamide 4 methyl tetrazolo 1 5 a quinazolin 5 4H one 8 1 1 dimethylethyl N ethyl N propyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4 5 decane 2 methanamine 8 hydroxyquinoline sulphate 9H xanthene 2 phenylamino carbonyl 9 carboxylic hydrazide bis 1 methylethyl 3 methyl 4 3 methylbenzoyl oxy 2 5 thiophenedicarboxylate cis 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1H 1 2 4 triazol 1 yl cycloheptanol cis 4 3 4 1 1 dimethylpropyl phenyl 2 methylpropyl 2 6 dimethyl morpholine hydrochloride ethyl 4 chlorophenyl azo cyanoacetate potassium bicarbonate methanetetrathiol sodium salt methyl 1 2 3 dihydro 2 2 dimethyl 1H inden 1 yl 1H imidazole 5 carboxylate methyl N 2 6 dimethylphenyl N 5 isoxazolylcarbonyl DL alaninate methyl N chloroacetyl N 2 6 dimethylphenyl DL alaninate N 2 3 dichloro 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 methylcyclohexanecarboxamide N 2 6 dimethylphenyl 2 methoxy N tetrahydro 2 oxo 3 furanyl acetamide N 2 6 dimethylphenyl 2 methoxy N tetrahydro 2 oxo 3 thienyl acetamide N 2 chloro 4 nitrophenyl 4 methyl 3 nitro benzenesulphonamide N 4 cyclohexylphenyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 pyrimidinamine N 4 hexylphenyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 pyrimidinamine N 5 chloro 2 methylphenyl 2 methoxy N 2 oxo 3 oxazoldinyl acetamide N 6 methoxy 3 pyridinyl cyclopropanecarboxamide N 2 2 2 trichloro 1 chloroacetyl amino ethyl benzamide N 3 chloro 4 5 bis 2 propinyloxy phenyl N methoxy methanimidamide N formyl N hydroxy DL alanine sodium salt O O diethyl 2 dipropylamino 2 oxoethyl ethylphosphoramidothioate 0 methyl S phenyl phenylpropylphosphoramidothioate S methyl 1 2 3 benzothiadiazole 7 carbothioate spiro 2H 1 benzopyrane 2 1 3 H isobenzofuran 3 one bronopol dichlorophen nitrapyrin nickel dimethyldithiocarbamate kasugamycin octhilinone furancarboxylic acid oxytetracyclin probenazole streptomycin tecloftalam copper sulphate and other copper preparations abamectin acephate acetamiprid acrinathrin alanycarb aldicarb aldoxycarb alpha cypermethrin alphamethrin amitraz avermectin AZ 60541 azadirachtin azamethiphos azinphos A azinphos M azocyclotin baculoviruses bendiocarb benfuracarb bensultap benzoximate betacyfluthrin bifenazate bifenthrin bioethanomethrin biopermethrin BPMC bromophos A bufencarb buprofezin butathiofos butocarboxim butylpyridaben cadusafos carbaryl carbofuran carbophenothion carbosulfan cartap chloethocarb chlorethoxyfos chlorfenapyr chlorfenvinphos chlorfluazuron chlormephos chlorpyrifos chlorpyrifos M chlovaporthrin cis resmethrin cispermethrin clocythrin cloethocarb clofentezine cyanophos cycloprene cycloprothrin cyfluthrin cyhalothrin cyhexatin cypermethrin cyromazine deltamethrin demeton M demeton S demeton S methyl diafenthiuron diazinon dichlorvos diflubenzuron dimethoate dimethylvinphos diofenolan disulfoton docusat sodium dofenapyn eflusilanate emamectin empenthrin endosulfan spp. esfenvalerate ethiofencarb ethion ethoprophos etofenprox etoxazole etrimfos fenamiphos fenazaquin fenbutatin oxide fenitrothion fenothiocarb fenoxacrim fenoxycarb fenpropathrin fenpyrad fenpyrithrin fenpyroximate fenvalerate fipronil fluazinam fluazuron flubrocythrinate flucycloxuron flucythrinate flufenoxuron flutenzine fluvalinate fonophos fosmethilan fosthiazate fubfenprox furathiocarb granulosis viruses halofenozide HCH heptenophos hexaflumuron hexythiazox hydroprene imidacloprid isazofos isofenphos isoxathion ivermectin nuclear polyhedrosis viruses lambda cyhalothrin lufenuron malathion mecarbam metaldehyde methamidophos methidathion methiocarb methomyl methoxyfenozide metolcarb metoxadiazone mevinphos milbemectin monocrotophos naled nitenpyram nithiazine novaluron omethoate oxamyl oxydemethon M parathion A parathion M permethrin phenthoate phorate phosalone phosmet phosphamidon phoxim pirimicarb pirimiphos A pirimiphos M profenofos promecarb propoxur prothiofos prothoate pymetrozine pyraclofos pyresmethrin pyrethrum pyridaben pyridathion pyrimidifen pyriproxyfen quinalphos ribavirin salithion sebufos silafluofen spinosad sulfotep sulprofos tau fluvalinate tebufenozide tebufenpyrad tebupirimiphos teflubenzuron tefluthrin temephos temivinphos terbufos tetrachlorvinphos theta cypermethrin thiamethoxam thiapronil thiatriphos thiocyclam hydrogen oxalate thiodicarb thiofanox thuringiensin tralocythrin tralomethrin triarathene triazamate triazophos triazuron trichlophenidine trichlorfon triflumuron trimethacarb vamidothion vaniliprole YI 5302 zeta cypermethrin zolaprofos 1R cis 5 phenylmethyl 3 furanyl methyl 3 dihydro 2 oxo 3 2H furanylidene methyl 2 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 2 2 3 3 tetramethylcyclopropanecarboxylate 1 2 chloro 5 thiazolyl methyl tetrahydro 3 5 dimethyl N nitro 1 3 5 triazine 2 1H imine 2 2 chloro 6 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dimethylethyl phenyl 4 5 dihydro oxazole 2 acetyloxy 3 dodecyl 1 4 naphthalenedione 2 chloro N 4 1 phenylethoxy phenyl amino carbonyl benzamide 2 chloro N 4 2 2 dichloro 1 1 difluoroethoxy phenyl amino carbonyl benzamide 3 methylphenyl propylcarbamate 4 4 4 ethoxyphenyl 4 methylpentyl 1 fluoro 2 phenoxy benzene 4 chloro 2 1 1 dimethylethyl 5 2 2 6 dimethyl 4 phenoxyphenoxy ethyl thio 3 2H pyridazinone 4 chloro 2 2 chloro 2 methylpropyl 5 6 iodo 3 pyridinyl methoxy 3 2H pyridazinone 4 chloro 5 6 chloro 3 pyridinyl methoxy 2 3 4 dichlorophenyl 3 2H pyridazinone strain EG 2348 2 benzoyl 1 1 1 dimethylethyl hydrazinobenzoic acid 2 dimethyl 3 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 oxo 1 oxaspiro 4 5 dec 3 en 4 ylbutanoate 3 6 chloro 3 pyridinyl methyl 2 thiazolidinyldene cyanamide dihydro 2 nitromethylene 2H 1 3 thiazine 3 4H carboxaldehyde ethyl 2 1 6 dihydro 6 oxo 1 phenylmethyl 4 pyridazinyl oxy ethyl carbamate N 3 4 4 trifluoro 1 oxo 3 butenyl glycine N 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 4 5 dihydro 4 phenyl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxamide N 2 chloro 5 thiazolyl methyl N methyl N nitro guanidine N methyl N 1 methyl 2 propenyl 1 2 hydrazinedicarbothioamide N methyl N 2 propenyl 1 2 hydrazinedicarbothioamide and O O diethyl 2 dipropylamino 2 oxoethyl ethylphosphoramidothioate.

Treatment of the plants and soil with the RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be carried out directly or by allowing the compounds to act on the surroundings environment or storage space by the customary treatment methods for example by immersion spraying evaporation fogging scattering painting on and in the case of propagation material in particular in the case of seeds also by applying one or more coats.

Depending on the plant species or plant cultivars their location and growth conditions soils climate vegetation period diet the treatment according to the invention may also result in superadditive synergistic effects. Thus for example reduced application rates and or a widening of the activity spectrum and or an increase in the activity of the substances and compositions to be used better plant growth increased tolerance to high or low temperatures increased tolerance to drought or to water or soil salt content increased flowering performance easier harvesting accelerated maturation higher harvest yields better quality and or a higher nutritional value of the harvested products better storage stability and or processability of the harvested products that exceed the effects which were actually to be expected may occur.

The RNA binding modulatory compounds e.g. compounds of I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may used in unchanged form or together with an agronomically acceptable carrier. The term agronomically acceptable carrier includes any carrier suitable for administration to a plant or soil for example customary excipients in formulation techniques such as solutions e.g. directly sprayable or diluable solutions emulsions e.g. emulsion concentrates and diluted emulsions wettable powders suspensions soluble powders powders dusts pastes soluble powders granules suspension emulsion concentrates encapsulation into polymeric materials coatable pastes natural and synthetic materials impregnated with active compound and microencapsulations in polymeric substances. These formulations are produced in a known manner for example by mixing the compounds with agronomically acceptable carrier such as liquid solvents or solid carriers optionally with the use of surfactants including emulsifiers dispersants and foam formers.

If the agronomically acceptable carrier is water it may also possible to employ for example organic solvents as auxiliary solvents. Suitable liquid solvents include for example aromatics e.g. xylene toluene and alkylnaphthalenes chlorinated aromatics or chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons e.g. chlorobenzenes chloroethylenes and methylene chloride aliphatic hydrocarbons e.g. cyclohexane paraffins e.g. petroleum fractions mineral and vegetable oils alcohols e.g. butanol or glycol and also their ethers and esters ketones e.g. acetone methyl ethyl ketone methyl isobutyl ketone and cyclohexanone and strongly polar solvents e.g. dimethylformamide and dimethyl sulphoxide .

Suitable solid agronomically acceptable carriers include for example ammonium salts and ground natural minerals e.g. kaolins clays talc chalk quartz attapulgite montmorillonite anddiatomaceous earth ground synthetic minerals e.g. highly disperse silica alumina and silicates crushed and fractionated natural rocks e.g. calcite marble pumice sepiolite and dolomite synthetic granules of inorganic and organic meals granules of organic material e.g. sawdust coconut shells maize cobs and tobacco stalks 

Suitable emulsifiers and foam formers include for example nonionic and anionic emulsifiers e.g. polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers for example alkylaryl polyglycol ethers alkylsulphonates alkyl sulphates and arylsulphonates protein hydrolysates.

Tackifiers such as carboxymethylcellulose and natural and synthetic polymers in the form of powders granules or lattices such as gum arabic polyvinyl alcohol and polyvinyl acetate as well as natural phospholipids such as cephalins and lecithins and synthetic phospholipids can be used in the formulations. Other additives may include for example mineral and vegetable oils.

Colorants such as inorganic pigments for example iron oxide titanium oxide and Prussian Blue and organic dyestuffs such as alizarin dyestuffs azo dyestuffs and metal phthalocyanine dyestuffs and trace nutrients such as salts of iron manganese boron copper cobalt molybdenum and zinc may also be included in the agronomically acceptable carrier.

The pesticidal compositions may be administered to the plant or soil by any techniques known in the art including for example spraying atomizing dusting scattering coating or pouring. One of skill in the art would be able to determine the appropriate technique for administration without undue experimentation according the specific pest to be combated the specific chemical composition and formulation of the compound being employed the method of applying the compound formulation and the locus of treatment.

In one embodiment the pesticidal compositions comprising an RNA binding modulatory compound e.g. compound of formula I Ia Ib II IIa IIb IIc III IV V VI VIa VIb VII VIIa VIIb VIIc VIId VIIe VIIf or a compound of Table 1 or 2 may be administered by foliar application. In another embodiment the pesticidal composition may also reach the plants through the root system via the soil systemic action by drenching the locus of the plant with a liquid preparation or by incorporating the substances into the soil in solid form e.g. in the form of granules soil application . In rice cultivations these granules may be dispensed over the flooded paddy field. The pesitidical compositions of the invention may also be applied to tubers or seed grain for example by soaking spraying or drenching the seed grain or tubers in a liquid pesticidal composition or by coating the tubers or seed grain with a solid pesticidal composition.

The pesticidal compositions disclosed herein generally comprise between 0.1 and 95 by weight of active compound preferably between 0.5 and 90 . Favorable application rates are in general 1 g to 2 kg of active substance AS per hectare ha for example 10 g to 1 kg AS ha or 20 g to 600 g AS ha. For application of tubers or seed grain dosages of 10 mg to 1 g active substance per kg of seed grain or tubers may be used.

The contents of all references patent applications and patents cited throughout this application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Each reference disclosed herein is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Any patent application to which this application claims priority is also incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The expression and purification of recombinant MEX 5 protein has previously been described in Pagano J. M. Farley B. M. McCoig L. M. and Ryder S. P. 2007 Molecular basis of RNA recognition by the embryonic polarity determinant MEX 5282 8883 8894. The fragment of mex 5 containing the TZF domain amino acids 236 350 was amplified from a commercially available ORFeome clone Open Biosystems and sub cloned into the vector pMal c NEB which encodes maltose binding protein as an N terminal fusion. This construct is termed pMal MEX 5 236 350 .

MEX 5 is expressed in JM109 liquid cultures grown at 37 C. Cultures were induced during mid log phase by the addition of 0.1 mM isopropyl 1 thio D galactopyranoside IPTG and allowed to grow for three hours. An amount of 100 M zinc acetate final concentration was added at the time of induction. The pelleted cells were resuspended in lysis buffer 50 mM Tris pH 8.8 200 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT EDTA free protease inhibitor tablet Roche 100 M Zn OAc and lysed by sonication. The soluble protein was purified in three steps using standard chromatography methods 1 amylose affinity NEB 2 Hi TRAP Q GE Healthcare and 3 Hi TRAP S GE Healthcare . The Q buffer was composed of 50 mM Tris pH 8.8 20 mM 1500 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT and 100 M Zn OAc . The S buffer was composed of 50 mM MOPS pH 6.0 20 mM 1500 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT 100 M Zn OAc . The pure fractions determined by coomassie stained SDS PAGE were dialyzed into storage buffer 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 25 mM NaCl 100 M Zn OAc 2 mM DTT . The protein concentration was determined by measuring absorbance at 280 nm and the calculated extinction coefficient. The protein was stored at 50 M concentration at 4 C.

The expression and purification of recombinant POS 1 protein has been previously described in Farley B. M. Pagano J. M. and Ryder S. P. 2008 RNA target specificity of the embryonic cell fate determinant POS 1. 14 2685 2697. The sequence encoding amino acids 80 180 of POS 1 was amplified from the corresponding ORFeome Open Biosystems clone via PCR and cloned in frame into the multiple cloning site of pHMTc a derivative of pMal c2x NEB that includes an N terminal 6 his tag and a TEV protease site after MBP.

The protein was expressed from this construct in strain BL21 DE3 Gold Stratagene . The protein expression was induced by addition of 1 mM IPTG and 100 M Zn OAc at mid log phase. Cells were induced for three hours prior to harvesting and the cells were lysed and purified using an amylose column NEB . The eluate was passed through a HiTrap SP column and the collected flow through was purified over a HiTrap Q GE Healthcare column. The following buffers were used Lysis buffer 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 200 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT 100 M Zn OAc S buffer 50 mM MOPS pH 6.0 20 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT 100 M Zn OAc and Q buffer 50 mM Tris pH 8.8 20 mM 750 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT 100 M Zn OAc . The purified POS 1 was dialyzed into storage buffer 25 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 25 mM NaCl 100 M Zn OAc 2 mM DTT concentrated to approximately 100 M using a 30 000 MWCO spin concentrator vivascience Group and stored at 4 C. for up to two months.

The sequence encoding amino acids 45 205 of MEX 3 was amplified from the ORFeome clone Open Biosystems and subcloned into pMal c NEB . MBP MEX 3 45 205 was expressed and purified from BL21 DE3 Gold Stratagene . A liquid culture grown at 37 C. was induced at mid log phase with 1 mM isopropyl 1 thio D galactopyranoside and grown for 3 hours before harvesting cells. The cells were lysed in lysis buffer and purified using amylose affinity resin NEB followed by a HiTrap Q and Source 15Q GE Healthcare columns at 4 C. using the lysis buffer and Q buffer outlined for MEX 5 above. The purified MEX 3 was dialyzed into storage buffer 25 mM Tris pH 8.0 25 mM NaCl 2 mM DTT and stored at 4 C. at a concentration between 30 50 M.

All RNA oligonucleotides were chemically synthesized by Dharmacon or Integrated DNA Technologies. Upon arrival each RNA was deprotected and stored according to the manufacturer s instructions. Prior to use the RNA was resuspended in 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 0.1 mM EDTA and the concentration determined by UV spectrophotometry using the calculated extinction coefficient at 260 nm based on the specific sequence. The sequence of the MEX 5 binding RNA TCR2 is UUUCUUUAUAACUUGUUACAAUUUUUGAAA SEQ ID NO 1 . The POS 1 binding RNA BMF018 is AACUAUUAUUAUUUGUUAUUCAUAUUUU SEQ ID NO 2 . The MEX 3 binding RNA SEQ 14 is CGAGCAGGAAGUGUGCAGAGUUUAGGACGU SEQ ID NO 3 .

The RNA used for the small molecule screen was labeled at the 3 end with fluorescein by Dharmacon during synthesis. In a few cases follow up experiments were performed with post synthetically labeled RNA. In this case fluorescein 5 thiosemicarbazide FTSC Invitrogen was used to 3 end label each RNA after treatment with sodium periodate see Reines S. A. and Cantor C. R. 1974 New fluorescent hydrazide reagents for the oxidized 3 terminus of RNA 1 767 786 . A representative 50 l reaction consisted of 0.5 nanomoles RNA 100 mM NaOAc pH 5.1 and 5 nanomoles NaIO. After the reaction was complete 90 minutes at room temperature the sample was ethanol precipitated by adding 1 l RNase free glycogen Invitrogen 20 g l 1 20volume of 5 M NaCl and 2 volumes of 100 ice cold ethanol. The resulting pellet was resuspended in 50 l of 100 mM NaOAc pH 5.1 containing 1 mM FTSC and was allowed to react overnight at 4 C. in the dark. The unreacted label was removed by ethanol precipitation with resuspension of the pellet in a small volume of TE and purification over a Roche G 25 size exclusion spin column. The labeling efficiency is determined by calculating the ratio of fluorescein absorbance at 490 nm to RNA fluorescein absorbance at 260 nm. Typical efficiencies are 60 80 .

The ability of MEX 5 to associate with RNA was monitored by fluorescence polarization using a victor V3 or victor V2V plate reader Perkin Elmer in 384 well FluoTrak microplates Grenier . Each plate contained 320 wells with 32 no protein control wells and 32 no compound control wells. The concentration of MEX 5 and fluorescein labeled TCR2 RNA was chosen to maximize signal to noise while maintaining sub saturation binding. The final concentration of reagents in each experimental well was 120 nM MBP MEX 5 2 nM TCR2 RNA 192 M test compound 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl 0.01 IGEPAL CA 360 0.01 mg mL tRNA from Sigma 2000 Units and 100 M Zn OAc . The Z value calculated for each plate from the no protein and no compound controls ranged between 0.8 and 0.9 see Zhang J. H. Chung T. D. and Oldenburg K. R. 1999 A Simple Statistical Parameter for Use in Evaluation and Validation of High Throughput Screening Assays 4 67 73 .

Each day two stock solutions were prepared a protein mix and an RNA mix. The protein mix contained 200 nM MBP MEX 5 dissolved in 100 M Zn OAc . The RNA mix contained 5 nM labeled TCR2 RNA 125 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 250 mM NaCl 0.025 IGEPAL CA 360 Sigma 0.025 mg mL tRNA and 100 M Zn OAc . A 96 pin liquid handling robot was used to transfer 2 L of 2 mM stock of test compound dissolved in DMSO into 320 wells of a microplate. The remaining 84 wells were filled with 2 L of DMSO no protein and no compound controls . Subsequently a Fill plate dispenser was used to transfer 30 L of protein stock into the plate 352 wells of the plate. The remaining 32 wells received 30 L of 100 M Zn OAc no protein controls . Finally The Fill plate dispenser was used to transfer 20 L of RNA stock into all 384 wells of the plate.

The apparent polarization mP of each well of the plate was determined using victor V3 or victor V2V plate reader. Each plate was measured in triplicate with a measurement time of 0.4 seconds per well an excitation band pass filter of 480 31 nm and an emission band pass filter of 535 40 nm. The data was processed with Microsoft Excel and Wavemetrics Igor Pro. The well score was defined by the following equation SCORE mP mP mP mP Compounds with a score of less than or equal to 0.25 75 inhibition where the fluorescence intensity S is within 2 fold of the control wells were identified as compounds capable of modulating e.g. inhibiting the RNA binding activity of MEX 5. POS 1 

POS 1 inhibitor screening proceeded using the protocol described above except MBP POS 1 and BMF018 RNA were used in place of MEX 5 and TCR2 RNA.

MEX 3 screening proceeded as above with the following modifications. MBP MEX 3 protein and SEQ 14 RNA were used in place of MEX 5 and TCR2 RNA. The final concentration of MBP MEX 3 was reduced to 80 nM in each well thus the concentration in the protein stock was reduced to 133.3 nM. Zinc acetate was not used in the either the RNA stock or the Protein stock.

Results of the screening assays for each of MEX 5 POS 1 and MEX 3 are shown below in Table 2. Table 2 provides those test compounds which were identified as modulators e.g. inhibitors of the RNA binding activity of MEX 5 POS 1 and or MEX 3 and includes the corresponding scores where the lowest score correlates to the greatest inhibition for each compound that were obtained in the assays for each of MEX 5 POS 1 and MEX 3.

Further screenings were performed on select compounds of the invention as described above and the results are shown in Table 3.

In order to further evaluate the ability of a particular RNA binding modulatory compound identified herein to inhibit embryogenesis e.g. in a nematode the compounds identified herein are tested in a standard hermaphrodite worm reproduction assay s. Larval worms are hatched overnight into medium containing the compound in an agar plate. Then feeder bacteria is added to each plate and the worms cultured until they begin to produce eggs. Adult worms are removed or killed. Finally the ratio of dead eggs to hatchlings is determined by inspection with a stereomicroscope.

A further dose response assay was performed on select compounds of the invention as described below. A sub saturating concentration of MEX 5 or POS 1 120 nM was equilibrated with limiting fluorescein labeled RNA 2 3 nM TCR2 RNA or MEX 3 UTR fragment RNA respectively in the presence of varying concentrations of compound. Following equilibration the reactions were loaded onto a 5 slab polyacrylamide gel and subjected to electrophoresis for about 1 hour to separate protein RNA complex from free RNA. The gel was scanned on a FUJI FLA 5000 imager and the fraction of bound RNA determined by dividing the intensity of the bound RNA by the intensity of the bound RNA plus the free RNA. The fraction of the compound bound to the protein was plotted as a function of compound concentration and fit to a sigmoidal dose response function in order to determine the IC the concentration that gives half maximal inhibition. The results are seen in Table 4.

In order to determine whether select compounds of the invention inhibited viability of embryos N2 strain worms were cultured on NGM agar plates using OP50 strain as food. Young adult worms with a single row of embryos were selected for microinjection. Each worm was mounted on a dried agarose padded coverslip in halocarbon oil. Varying concentrations of compound or a DMSO control were microinjected into each gonad arm of the worm using an inverted microscope with DIC optics. Injected worms were then allowed to recover for 2 3 hours at 15 C. Approximately 10 40 worms were injected per compound tested. Individual worms that survived microinjection were singled out onto new NGM agar plates and allowed to recover overnight at 15 C. The plates were moved to room temperature the next morning. At the end of the day the adult worm was transferred to a new plate. The embryos laid on each plate were monitored for hatching and inspected for unusual phenotypes. Nematode fertility was estimated by counting the total number of progeny on both plates. Viability was estimated by monitoring the extent of hatching. The results of this assay using compound E are shown below in Table 5.

The results of this assay indicate that compound E may sterilize worms at a stage prior to fertilization. The worms seemed to lose fertility over the course of two days. In contrast 27 worms were injected with DMSO controls 10 survived injection and they continued to produce eggs afterwards.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation numerous equivalents to the specific polypeptides nucleic acids methods assays and reagents described herein. Such equivalents are considered to be within the scope of this invention and are covered by the following claims.

