---

title: Compatibility scoring of users
abstract: The compatibility score of members of a social network is based on the compatibility of their expressed interests. The compatibility score between any two interests is calculated as the log of the estimated probability that a member of the social network will express both interests divided by the product of: (i) the estimated probability that a member of the social network will express the first of the two interests and (ii) the estimated probability that a member of the social network will express the second of the two interests. The compatibility score between two individuals is calculated as the sum of the compatibility scores between each interest appearing in a set of interests expressed by the first of the two individuals and each interest appearing in a set of interests expressed by the second of the two individuals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600583&OS=09600583&RS=09600583
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09600583
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 432 641 filed 28 Mar. 2012 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 242 562 filed 30 Sep. 2008 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 778 which is a divisional under U.S.C. 121 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 117 793 filed 28 Apr. 2005 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 451 161 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to processing of social network data and more particularly to a method for scoring compatibility between members of an online social network.

Several online dating and friend making sites currently operate on the Internet. These services are generally similar in function. They allow users to post profiles and photos as well as search through the profiles and photos of other users. Communication between users is provided anonymously since users are identified by pseudonyms.

Initially these sites implemented rudimentary techniques to match users. These techniques amounted to no more than user profile searches based on criteria such as age gender location and physical characteristics. More recently these sites have implemented more sophisticated processes in an effort to find better matches for their users. These processes attempt to assess an individual s personality based on specially designed tests or questionnaires and find users who have compatible personalities.

The present invention bases compatibility of two individuals who are members of a social network on the compatibility of interests expressed by these individuals and provides for methods for quantifying compatibility of interests scoring compatibility of the two individuals in accordance with compatibility of interests expressed by these individuals and presenting compatibility results that include the compatibility scores.

The method of quantifying compatibility of interests includes the steps of calculating an estimated probability associated with each interest referred to herein as interest probability and each pair of interests referred to herein as joint probability and assigning an interest compatibility score between each pair of interests based on the estimated probabilities. The estimated interest probability for a particular interest represents the probability that a member of the social network will express that interest as one of his or her interests. The estimated joint probability for a particular pair of interests represents the probability that a member of the social network will express both interests in the pair as his or her interests.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the interest compatibility score between each pair of interests is computed as a function of the estimated joint probability for the pair and the estimated interest probabilities for the first and second interests of the pair.

The method of scoring compatibility in accordance with compatibility of interests includes the steps of preparing interest compatibility scores based on expressed interests of the members of the social network and computing a compatibility score between a first member of the social network and a second member of the social network based on expressed interests of the first member expressed interests of the second member and the interest compatibility scores between the expressed interests of the first member and the expressed interests of the second member. The interest compatibility score for any two expressed interests represents the degree of compatibility between the two expressed interests.

The method of presenting compatibility results that include the compatibility scores e.g. to an individual in the social network includes the steps of preparing interest compatibility scores based on expressed interests of the individuals in the social network selecting a set of individuals who are within a predetermined degree of separation from the first individual and computing a compatibility score between the first individual and each of the individuals in the set. If the predetermined degree of separation is set as one this means that only the compatibility scores of the first individual s direct friends will be presented. The compatibility results that include the compatibility scores are presented as a web page and before the web page is transmitted to be displayed the compatibility results are sorted in the order of the compatibility scores. By providing compatibility scores and linking it to interest profiles the invention encourages people to enter interests so the site can find other people who share the same or compatible interests.

Degrees of separation in a social network are defined relative to an individual. For example in ME s social network H and ME are separated by 2 d s whereas in G s social network H and G are separated by only 1 d s. Accordingly each individual will have their own set of first second and third degree relationships.

As those skilled in the art understand an individual s social network may be extended to include nodes to an Nth degree of separation. As the number of degrees increases beyond three however the number of nodes typically grows at an explosive rate and quickly begins to mirror the ALL set.

The application server also manages the information exchange requests that it receives from the remote computers . The graph servers receive a query from the application server process the query and return the query results to the application server . The graph servers manage a representation of the social network for all the members in the member database. The graph servers have a dedicated memory device such as a random access memory RAM in which an adjacency list that indicates all first degree relationships in the social network is stored. The graph servers respond to requests from application server to identify relationships and the degree of separation between members of the online social network.

The interest normalization process is in essence an interest classification process. It is performed so that the same interest expressed in different ways will be classified under that same interest. For example an interest expressed as reading may be classified under the same normalized interest as an interest expressed as books. In the set of normalized interests shown in the normalized interests are shown as a list. In an alternative embodiment the normalized interests may be arranged as a hierarchical tree. Further the present invention may be applied to systems where members input interests by selecting one or more interests that have been pre defined by the system operator. In such a case the normalization step is not performed and the set of pre defined interests is used as the set of normalized interests.

The matrix of interest compatibility scores provides numerical scores that represent how compatible each pair of normalized interests Interest Interest . . . InterestN is. Each off diagonal cell in the matrix has a numerical score entry that indicates the compatibility of the two interests associated with that cell s row and column. Each diagonal cell in the matrix has a numerical score entry that is a measure of the rarity of the interests associated with that cell s row and column. A rare interest has a high score. A commonly occurring interest has a low score. In the embodiment of the present invention illustrated herein the interest compatibility scores are compiled automatically based on the expressed interests of the members that have been normalized. The interest compatibility scores can also be manually created or they can be created using a combination of automatic and manual processes. Further any of the interest compatibility scores that are compiled automatically may be manually adjusted.

In Step the compatibility scores determined in Step are summed and the sum represents the compatibility score between the first member and the second member.

In Step a compatibility score between the member specifying the criteria and each member of the social network who meets the specified search criteria is computed. In Step the members of the social network who meet the specified search criteria are sorted according to their compatibility scores and in Step a web page containing images mini profiles and hyperlinks associated with the members of the social network who meet the specified search criteria are transmitted to the member for display. The web page transmitted in Step is formatted such that the images mini profiles and hyperlinks associated with the members are displayed according their compatibility scores highest to lowest . shows a sample search results page .

The compatibility score between two members can be adjusted based on relationship information stored for the two members. In one embodiment the compatibility score between the two members is increased based on the number of common first through Nth degree friends that the members have. N is typically set to 2 or 3 but may be any positive integer. The compatibility score may be increased in proportion to the number of common first through Nth degree friends that the members have with the increase based on first degree friends being weighted higher than the increase based on second degree friends and the increase based on second degree friends being weighted higher than the increase based on third degree friends and so forth.

In another embodiment the compatibility score between a first member of the social network and a second member of the social network is adjusted based on the commonality of the first member s expressed interest in the first member s social network and the commonality of the second member s expressed interest in the second member s social network. is a flow diagram that illustrates the process steps executed by the processor of the application server in computing a compatibility score between two members e.g. a first member and a second member with the adjustment based on the commonality of the first member s expressed interest in the first member s social network and the commonality of the second member s expressed interest in the second member s social network.

In Step the expressed interests of the first member are normalized into a first set I I . . . Im of normalized interests where m represents the number of normalized interests in the first set. In Step the expressed interests of the second member are normalized into a second set J J . . . Jn of normalized interests where n represents the number of normalized interests in the second set. In Step the interest compatibility scores for all pairs of normalized interests in the first and second sets are determined from the matrix . For example if the first set is Interest  Interest  and the second set is Interest  Interest  the following compatibility scores are retrieved from the matrix 

In Step each of the compatibility scores determined in Step is adjusted based on the commonality of the first member s expressed interest in the first member s social network and the commonality of the second member s expressed interest in the second member s social network. For example the adjustments k k k k are made to the compatibility scores determined in Step as follows 

The adjustment kij is a function of the number of first through Nth degree friends of the first member who have expressed an interest corresponding to Interest i and the number of first through Nth degree friends of the second member who have expressed an interest corresponding to Interest j. N is typically set to 3 or 4 but may be any positive integer. The properties of the adjustment kij are as follows 

In Step the adjusted compatibility scores determined in Step are summed and the sum represents the compatibility score between the first member and the second member.

While particular embodiments according to the invention have been illustrated and described above those skilled in the art understand that the invention can take a variety of forms and embodiments within the scope of the appended claims.

