---

title: Automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) system for ownership and traffic situational awareness
abstract: The present invention proposes an automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) architecture and process, in which priority aircraft and ADS-B IN traffic information are included in the transmission of data through the telemetry communications to a remote ground control station. The present invention further proposes methods for displaying general aviation traffic information in three and/or four dimension trajectories using an industry standard Earth browser for increased situation awareness and enhanced visual acquisition of traffic for conflict detection. The present invention enable the applications of enhanced visual acquisition of traffic, traffic alerts, and en-route and terminal surveillance used to augment pilot situational awareness through ADS-B IN display and information in three or four dimensions for self-separation awareness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405005&OS=09405005&RS=09405005
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09405005
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 637 563 filed on Apr. 24 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The invention relates to aircraft telemetry and control systems suitable for use in an unmanned aerial system UAS and more particularly to an ADS B architecture for use in both manned and unmanned aircraft that provides airborne or ground control station GCS pilots with enhanced ownship and traffic situational awareness.

The Federal Aviation Administration FAA promulgates both Visual flight Rules VFR and Instrument Flight Rules IFR for all manned aircraft. VFR regulations require a pilot to be able to see outside the cockpit and to control the aircraft s attitude navigate and avoid obstacles and other aircraft. However an airborne pilot s cockpit instrumentation offers very limited en route and terminal surveillance to augment the pilot s situational awareness and offers minimal information on surrounding traffic nor any traffic alerts.

The dearth of situational information is even more pronounced for Unmanned Aerial Systems UASs such as drones which have no onboard pilot to perform the see and avoid function. Currently UASs can only fly domestically in our National Airspace System with a Certificates of Approval COA or Experimental Airworthiness Certificate issued by the FAA. The FAA will only issue these certificates if a qualified ground observer or qualified personnel in a manned chase aircraft can perform the See And Avoid S A function.

The demand for UASs is proliferating among the military civil government and private sectors due to significant improvements in their capabilities and performance. UAS related research and innovation is driving the creation of companies and jobs and UAS innovation has dramatically reduced the cost of aerial surveillance for law enforcement agencies and private companies. However the proliferation of UASs is causing challenges as well. Without a regulatory framework a large number of UASs in U.S. airspace would endanger commercial airlines and private aircraft. The FAA has not yet established Federal Aviation Regulations FARs for UASs to fly routinely in U.S. airspace. However the FAA has been charged with developing a comprehensive plan for the integration of private UASs into U.S. airspace by late 2015.

It is reasonable to assume that any new FAA rules will impose requirements similar to manned aircraft. The FAA is mandating every aircraft operating within its airspace where a transponder is currently required to be equipped with Automatic dependent surveillance broadcast ADS B Out by Jan. 1 2020. ADS B is the satellite based successor to radar. ADS B makes use of GPS technology to determine and share precise aircraft location information and streams additional flight information to the cockpits of properly equipped aircraft. ADS B is a more reliable system for detecting and avoiding both cooperative aircraft and importantly non cooperative aircraft such as parachutists balloons and manned aircraft without radios or navigation aids. Indeed proposed FAR rules have been discussed. Any new FAA rules for UASs will inevitably impose strict standards for UASs and is very likely to require some form of ADS B based collision avoidance technology. Unfortunately current ADS B Out lacks enhanced visual acquisition of real time traffic. Conventional ADS B Out schema only transmit the immediate aircraft s position and velocity information automatically and periodically at least once every second without flight crew or operator intervention. Only air traffic controllers currently have information on surrounding aircraft positions and the UAS s GCS has no information on surrounding aircraft or threats. Moreover conventional aerospace telemetry networks require the use of efficient domain specific protocols at the transport network and routing layers to protect against temporary loss of telemetry. However the existing GCS devices conventional computers and services are based on legacy protocols such as wireless radio frequency communications via serial asynchronous protocols that serves as a conduit to assure the necessary UAS pilot situational awareness. ADS B is susceptible to temporary loss of telemetry between the GCS and if ADS B data were to be transmitted using serial asynchronous or TCP IP protocol it would be highly susceptible to telemetry loss. The loss of telemetry can occur from various factors such as simple line of sight distance interference to atmospheric disturbances. These constraints make conventional ADS B ill suited for remote piloted UASs were situational awareness and conflict situational awareness is extremely limited.

One solution is for every GCS to transmit their UAS coordinates to air traffic control and let them consolidate and analyze all their data inclusive of all UASs under their command. United States Patent Application 20100066604 by Limbaugh et al. Kutta Technologies Inc. published Mar. 18 2010 shows an unmanned aerial system UAS position reporting system in which an air traffic control reporting system ATC RS receives position data of a UAS from its ground control station GCS and communicates the position of the UAS to a civilian air traffic control center ATC or to a military command through an ADS B signal or through a TIS B signal through the ADS B and TIS B transceiver. The ATC RS is adapted to display the position of the UAS in the airspace on a display screen. This solution is cumbersome inasmuch as it requires four separate data transmissions to avoid a collision and it is highly prone to temporary loss of telemetry.

A better solution is to use a UAS s ADS B Out transceiver as a repeater to transmit not just the immediate aircraft discretes but also other priority aircraft and ADS B IN traffic information in the ADS B telemetered signal. This way the GCS has all the data in one downlink.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 064 335 to Eschenbach Trimble issued May 16 2000 shows a GPS based ADS B system in which any properly equipped aircraft can know the position and heading of all neighboring aircraft. Each aircraft utilize GPS technology to determine its position and heading and these discretes are transmitted to other ADS B equipped aircraft as well as ground control. Each aircraft in the vicinity would receive the GPS squitter and track the position and progress of neighboring aircraft thus implementing a GPS squitter Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System TCAS . Despite suggesting the repeater concept the Trimble collision avoidance system only uses it to give a manned aircraft a way of visually cross checking air traffic alerts from squitter avionics with air traffic controller communications. The suggested system is not adapted for use in a UAS and does not disclose a turnkey communication network between air and GCS.

What is needed is an ADS B system that is more fully adapted for both airborne pilots and UAS pilots to provide a more comprehensive and failsafe detection and warning system to avoid accidents. Otherwise impending FAA regulations are expected to severely limit the range and conditions under which UASs can operate. Disclosed herein is a system and method for ADS B adapted for UASs to give them a new capability to periodically transmit the ownship three dimensional position and airspeed as well as that of other surrounding aircraft in the vicinity to the GCS and to use an ADS B functional redundancy via a secure UDP IP network link that is impervious to temporary telemetry loss for increased UAS situational awareness in uncertain environments. The system may also be deployed in the cockpit of conventional aircraft for enhanced ownship and traffic situational awareness of the airborne pilot.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an ADS B system coupled to a manned or unmanned aerial vehicle for increased situational awareness and self separation assurance including methods for ADS B functional redundancy.

It is another object to provide an ADS B system adapted for use in a UAS to provide increased situational awareness and a self separation assurance system to avoid accidents.

It is another object of the invention to provide an UAS ADS B architecture that provides UAS GCS operators with comprehensive ownship and traffic situational awareness by inclusion of surrounding traffic information in the transmission of data through the GCS telemetry downlink using serial and or a secure packet based IP network to the GCS.

It is another object of the invention to provide an UAS ADS B architecture in which ADS B data is received at a GCS via telemetry downlink wherein a software lost link detector senses a loss of telemetry link and compensates for temporary loss of telemetry between the GCS.

It is another object to provide methods for displaying ADS B traffic information in three and four dimensions at the GCS using an industry standard Earth browser for the visual acquisition of traffic and situational awareness and for consolidating the above mentioned display with weather restricted airspace and satellite imagery information on the Earth browser for hazard avoidance.

It is another object to provide autonomous GCS software algorithms for traffic situation awareness and alerting of potential collisions or hazardous traffic situations based on separation and collision zones surrounding the aircraft.

According to the present invention the above described and other objects are accomplished by providing an ADS B system for increased situational awareness and self separation assurance employing methods for ADS B functional redundancy. The invention is especially suited and is herein described in the unmanned context in which a UAS is capable of telemetering the position of the ownship in addition to the location of surrounding aircraft as well as FAA and other data to a ground control station GCS in real time. At the UAS the ADS B system uses a Universal Access Transceiver UAT to receive air to air ADS B In messages direct from aircraft nearby as well as ADS R and TIS B messages from ground based transceivers. The ADS B messages are received by UAT antennas and are processed by the ADS B UAT as ADS B ADS R TIS B message reports. The ADS B message packets are transmitted to an ADS B ground control station GCS laptop via a telemetry Radio Frequency datalink via serial asynchronous protocol. The transmitted message packets include heartbeat ownship and traffic reports.

The complete system architecture relies on an IP network background and incorporates redundancy via the internet. The ADS B data is transmitted encrypted to the UAS GCS using UDP IP protocol to meet FAA security data requirements. The GCS laptop employs lost link detection software to sense any loss of telemetry link and to compensate. If the lost link software senses a loss of telemetry link resulting from either the downlink telemetry between the UAS and the GCS being lost or the data corrupted the lost link software automatically switches over to the FAA secure center data stream and provide near real time substitute data to the operator. The redundancy of data adds aircraft situational awareness even during the loss of telemetry.

The invention also provides a GCS architecture and geo browser software application at the GCS that parses incoming ADS B messages and converts the ADS B data to a keyhole markup KML format for display purposes. The dynamic KML files are written to an industry Earth browser Google Earth Pro or the like which reads the KML files and displays the ownship and traffic information spatially providing 3D synthetic views of the UAS and its surroundings as well as projected future positions of the UAS and other aircraft. A key aspect of the visual display is that all traffic aircraft models are accompanied with 3D color coded contrails as an aide to visual acquisition of traffic targets. The ownship data may be selectively overlayed with other downlink data such as weather FAA Notice To Airmen NOTAMS keep out zones and other relevant information. The consolidation of ADS B information with telemetry communications allows real time traffic information to be available to the UAS operator.

A novel algorithm is also proposed for traffic situation awareness and alerting of potential collisions or hazardous traffic situations. Automatic traffic alerts are generated based on separation and collision zones surrounding the aircraft respectively.

The same geo browser display provided at the GCS may be deployed in the cockpit of conventional aircraft for enhanced ownship situational awareness of the airborne pilot.

The present invention is a hardware and software architecture that integrates Automatic Dependence Surveillance Broadcast ADS B surveillance technology to an unmanned aircraft system UAS with improved communications and sophisticated display capabilities to provide increased situational awareness and a self separation assurance system to avoid accidents. The ADS B system architecture is especially suited for UAS because it integrates 1 UAS flight qualified customized ADS B hardware 2 wireless radio frequency telemetry for vehicle communications 3 loss link functional redundancy of ADS B ADS R TIS B data special use airspace data and hazardous weather data via secure internet communication 4 a software architecture with novel algorithms for real time ADS B data integration conflict detection and alerting and control logic for loss of UAS telemetry link and 5 a synthetic vision display using a fully integrated geobrowser for three dimensional graphical representations for ownship and air traffic situational awareness.

The following is a list of acronyms used which are used throughout the description of the preferred embodiment 

In accordance with the invention priority aircraft and ADS B IN traffic information are included in the transmission of data through the telemetry communications to a remote ground control station GCS . In addition to accurate location and UAS operational data the inclusion of ADS B information with telemetry communications allows real time traffic information to be available to the UAS operator located at the GCS. Furthermore the ADS B data is displayed to the operator on an industry standard Earth browser to provide an enhanced visual display with three and or four dimension trajectories for increased situation awareness and enhanced visual acquisition of traffic for conflict detection. This increased situational and traffic awareness is a preeminent attribute for successful UAS operations and greatly improves safety for the UAS other aircraft in the area and nearby ground facilities and personnel. The embodiments disclosed herein offer a new capability for ADS B surveillance redundancy the system provides for automatic internet connection to the FAA technology center and Surveillance Broadcasting Services in the event that the telemetry signal is lost. In this lost link scenario ADS B data from the FAA tech center sent via a secure IP network can be used to track the UAS until the primary signal can be recovered.

UAT is preferably a Garmin GDL 90 ADS B universal access transceiver. The GDL 90 includes a built in 15 channel GPS WAAS receiver and is certified to support a broad array of Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B broadband services and is factory configured to broadcast ownship position velocity projected track altitude and flight identification via RF communications an RF data link on 978 MHz to other ADS B equipped aircraft in the vicinity as well as to other ground based transceivers maintained by the FAA. Alternatively UAT maybe a TSO certified Free Flight RANGR universal access transceiver using the identical ADS B message reports. The UAT may also provide other ancillary functions including storage and retrieval of UAS aircraft configuration data. GPS WAAS antenna is connected to the UAT built in 15 channel GPS WAAS receiver. UAT antennas and GPS WAAS antenna are conventional components. The altitude encoder is also a conventional component that produces digitized pressure information for determining the UAS pressure altitude.

The UAT is inherently capable of ADS B Out broadcasts of ownship UAS ADS B data. For this the UAT determines the UAS ownship position velocity from a built in fifteen 15 channel GPS WAAS receiver in the UAT transponder unit receiving signals from GPS WAAS antenna . The UAT inputs pressure altitude from altitude encoder to broadcast ownship pressure altitude information. The upper and lower UAT antennas provide line of sight transmission and reception of ADS B broadcasts. The UAT also receives a system maintenance input as required for the configuration and maintenance of the ADS B system and also receives pilot input from the Ground Control Station GCS .

The UAT is reprogrammed to do this for ADS B Out In by enabling both transmit Tx and receive Rx during initial setup installation using the provided instrument programming interface. Thus the UAS ADS B Out UAT transceiver effectively transmits not just the ownship UAS discretes but also other surrounding priority aircraft and ADS B In traffic information all in consolidated ADS B message reports. This way the GCS has all the data in one downlink. This process is detailed below in regard to .

The consolidated ADS B Out and ADS B In message packets are transmitted to the ADS B Display at GCS using the existing UAS ADS B payload telemetry e.g. GPI via its conventional telemetry protocols from the GPI port at 1 Hz via the existing Telemetry Radio Frequency datalink . In this case any of a variety of radio communications may be used including Ku Satellite Beyond line of sight C Band line of sight and S Band radio communications. However bandwidth constraints of radio communications limit the amount of ADS B messages for traffic and real time weather information. As seen in to improve the flow of data communications for a plurality of data rates and or serial protocols the present invention uses a dedicated converter with memory buffers for the consolidated ADS B Out and ADS B In messages using UAS serial protocols via telemetry RF communications. Specifically an RS 232 422 converter is interposed between the UAT and payload GPI as described below to convert between the data communication protocols of the UAT ADS B unit and the UAS serial telemetry protocol. Similarly the inverse RS 422 232 converter is used at GCS to convert between the data communication protocol of the UAS and the Laptop serial protocol. The ownship ADS B Out messages contain data such as ownship latitude longitude geometric altitude velocity heading and accuracy metrics compliant with standard GPS accuracy and integrity parameters NACp NIC and SIL . In addition the UAT receives ADS B In traffic reports for up to thirty two ADS B or TIS B targets prioritized based on proximity to the ownship UAS. Each of the consolidated ADS B Out message packets are encoded with a checksum to ensure the validity of the telemetry signal as will be described and are transmitted to GCS via GPI and or via secure internet connectionless communications using encrypted UDP IP protocol as will be described .

The GCS is manned by a flight crew and controls provides the operational status of the ADS B UAS . For this purpose GCS includes a UAT control panel connected to converter and configured to transmit control messages to the UAT via the GPI telemetry protocols. A ground control station display is connected to converter receives the consolidated ADS B message packets and provides ADS B status and displays synthetic 3D 4D views of ownship and traffic information to the UAS pilot. The control station display and UAT control panel may be a conventional PC based computer such as a laptop with on board display and network interface. Alternatively the functional equivalent of the display and control panel may be provided to the pilot in the cockpit of conventional aircraft for enhanced ownship situational awareness of the airborne pilot. In the latter case a conventional PC based tablet computer is preferred though a cockpit laptop will also suffice.

In the UAS context GCS allows an operator to fly the UAS by remote control and serves two important functions allocated to the UAS operator. The first is system monitoring the human operator should be able to monitor the ADS B system and ownship navigation. The second is traffic situational awareness the human operator should be informed of traffic data and alerted. These functions model what the UAS ADS B system does to enable the proper system behavior.

The UAS ADS B software resident at GCS includes novel algorithms for ADS B sensor processing alerts displays and control logic for loss of UAS telemetry link. The software architecture core functionality comprises four software modules for translation loss link self separation and synthetic display. The software architecture includes a translation module for generating KML scripts from the UAS ADS B data a loss link redundancy module to compensate for loss link of telemetry a separation assurance software module for traffic situation awareness and alerting of potential collisions or hazardous traffic situations and a synthetic display management user interface for managing the 3D 4D synthetic displays on ground control station display . Each of these GCS software modules is described in more detail below.

Generally the translation module parses all the message packets sent from the ADS B UAT and writes KML scripts that comprise models and trajectories for the ownship UAS . Keyhole markup KML is a file format suitable for displaying geographic data in an Earth browser such as Google Earth Google Maps etc. A KML file is processed in much the same way that HTML and XML files are processed by web browsers. Each KML file becomes a layer to be used in the virtual globe. The UAS ADS B data gleaned from the KML scripts is overlayed on a 3D 4D geobrowser display an Earth browser such as Google Earth Pro to provide various synthetic views of the UAS and its surroundings as described below as well as projected future positions of the UAS and other aircraft.

More specifically and with reference to at step a Master Serial scheduler governs and schedules all thread processes within the system software including thread processes for the Loss Link software module which branch to the left and the Translation module which branches to the right. Once the software is started all variables are initialized and static variables such as the mission flight plan and a checksum table are computed at steps respectively. The flight plan contains a list of waypoints for the UAS to fly. All flight plans waypoints are interpreted from a .txt formatted document generated by a mapping system of choice such as Falcon View a mapping system created by the Georgia Tech Research Institute which displays various types of maps and geographically referenced overlays. A loss link failure test at step described below is initialized to null. Once all preliminary operations are complete the software creates a serial monitor thread which monitors and reads the desired serial port s binary data stream. This thread loops indefinitely at step and at step reads the desired serial COM port and writes all incoming data to a file in hexadecimal format at step . This write to file method was employed to ensure no bytes from the serial stream are lost during data processing and to provide the capability to post analyze historical flight data and or replay. After the serial monitor thread is created at step the translation software begins an infinite looping sequence at step until terminated by the user. During this looping sequence the translation software opens the file currently being written at step and continuously reads the hexadecimal bytes from the file byte by byte converting them to their decimal equivalent. Step searches for the first instance of a heartbeat message this provides a starting point for data processing module. Upon finding it then at step the message identifier byte is stored and bytes are continued to be read. Once this file position is discovered subsequent bytes are then used to populate temporary data arrays based on the current message identifier . Once an array is fully populated at step it is passed to a checksum function where the message integrity is validated. If the checksum fails the message is discarded. If the checksum process passes the array is then transferred to a series of thread functions corresponding to the current message identifier e.g. heartbeat ownship GPS altitude or traffic report and a new thread is born. These thread functions are responsible for reading and interpreting the bytes such that useful information can be provided to the flight crew at GCS . While this information is being computed in the thread the Master Serial program continues to read bytes and populate other arrays. Once the Master Serial has finished reading all current messages from the ADS B at step it waits for the threads to join and return their data. This data is then placed into the proper location within a main dictionary. Within the dictionary each aircraft is assigned its own unique location with ownship data always occupying the first index location. All aircraft are assigned their own unique International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO code and the dictionary is indexed by ICAO Code. The data is placed into the proper location within the main dictionary by searching until a match is found. If a match is found the data returned from the telemetry processors will simply be appended to the matching ICAO code index. If no match is found the data will be assigned a new position unused within the dictionary. For the latitude longitude and altitude elements the thirty most recent data points are stored these are used to display the color coded flight history or contrails of a particular aircraft trajectory as described below . In order to provide pilots with the latest and most relevant data each aircraft is also assigned a timeout parameter. This timeout parameter allows continuous monitoring of the age of the latest data entries and is used to delete any aircraft hence removing it from the display which has not received an update in at least 25 seconds. This timeout period requirement is consistent with the FAA TSO 195 standard to eliminate stale air traffic data or misleading information. After all active telemetry processing threads have joined and the data distribution process is complete the program once again resumes and passes the updated dictionary to Keyhole Markup Language KML threads where the information is written in a KML format file at step the KML format being supported by the display software e.g. Google Earth . Unlike the threads which interpret and analyze bytes the main software does not wait for the KML threads to join and terminate since they are able to operate asynchronously from the main program. User selected overlays as well as status and traffic alert overlays to be described are applied as necessary. Further these files at step and are overwritten at every instance since they are being continuously monitored for updates by the Google Earth Pro software.

In the event that radio telemetry communication is lost with the ADS B hardware on a UAS it becomes critical to acquire ADS B data from an outside source to maintain an enhanced state of situational awareness. Although radio telemetry communications is nominally reliable loss link failure is a likelihood risk due to various factors such as simple line of sight distance interference and atmospheric disturbance. The software architecture uses a backup parallel design to automatically establish a connection with the FAA Technical Center and receive data via a UDP IP Ethernet connection. To accomplish Loss Link functional Redundancy the present invention employs a redundant architecture and a lost link software module at GCS for automatically arbitrating to a backup redundant ADS B data stream upon loss link.

The FAA flight monitor server located in the FAA Technical Center nationally provides a network infrastructure to receive ADS B packets encrypts the data and rebroadcast all data as multicast UDP packets. The FMS connection allows the GCS to receive live ADS B traffic data. The SBSS SDP network architecture utilizes a predefined transport layer port number and network layer multicast IP addresses for each application service supported. Since up to date flight data is highly sensitive and the established communication protocol is UDP network data broadcasts from the FAA Technical Center are encrypted for network security. The payload ADS B report packets are formatted and encoded by the FAA Category 033 v3 format message structures defined in FAA NAS IC82530001 01 Appendix B. The FMS RTTS client server application by the FAA which is hosted on a Laptop or Gateway server as an MS window based client is able to decrypt and receive packets in the FAA s CAT format. In the preferred embodiment the FMS RTTS client server application is hosted directly on the ADS B Laptop thus ADS B data streams can be received directly.

Referring to the loss link left hand side of if the loss link module detects a loss link scenario the lost link software module begins an infinite looping sequence at step until terminated by the user. During this looping sequence the loss link software automatically arbitrates to a backup redundant ADS B data stream available over the UDP IP port reads it at step and writes all incoming backup data to a file in hexadecimal format at step the backup data essentially becoming the surrogate for the translation software above beginning at step . In the presently preferred embodiment when the loss link module has detected a failure condition at step the software utilizes the JAVA Socket module to connect to the multicast IP address and associated port at step wherein data will be received and written in the same manner as the serial connection in the main architecture . Once connected the socket behaves essentially like a file that can be read as at step . The service volume IDs IP addresses encoded in the form of 239.16x.yz.31 are known apriori. For illustration the transport layer assigned port may be designated as 59950 and the multicast IP address is 239.161.yz.31 i.e.LAX 26 SV . The LAX ADS B UAT CAT data stream will be routed from the ADS B FMS server via multicast IP to the FMS RTTS client server application wherein the ADS B data packets are decrypted on a gateway local host server network address 10.10.10.10 and then sent to the ADS B Laptop UDP IP 10.10.10.xx Ethernet port connection. The ADS B Laptop IP network address herein 10.10.10.xx cannot be 0 10 or 255. The software searches for the unique ICAO code of the said UAS in the ADS B data stream if a key match is found the matching element target address has been found so its index or position velocity altitude and service volume ID is parsed the data returned will be appended to the matching ICAO code index and processed for display. If radio telemetry communication is somehow recovered with the UAT on the UAS the lost link software module automatically switches back to the nominal UAS transmission of ADS B messages via vehicle telemetry. This method provides UAS ADS B functional redundancy for increased situational awareness a critical attribute for safe UAS flight operations.

As stated above the present invention provides various intuitive 3D 4D synthetic views of the UAS and its surroundings as well as projected future positions of the UAS and other aircraft. The design of this synthetic display user interface can be seen in .

As seen in a key aspect of the visual display is that all traffic aircraft models are accompanied with three dimensional color coded contrails to aide in the visual acquisition of traffic targets. Traffic contrails are color coded based on the relative altitude vertical separation distance between the object and the ownship. The 3 dimensional graphical representation of traffic models uses a plurality of airborne and or surface vehicles which are based on ADS B aircraft identification and or vehicle emitter types. The exocentric view or God s Eye viewpoints of display ADS B traffic on a plan view relative to own ship allowing the pilot to effectively gauge the traffic surrounding the ownship. This is well suited for situational awareness.

The ideal design incorporates salient indicators and unique display views to maintain the operator s situational awareness. The number of both intruders and threats is closely monitored and displayed to the pilot in an overlay located at the upper right portion of the screen . In order to alert users of system anomalies the software also displays notifications pertaining to the status of the hardware. The salient indicators GPS Status ADSB status and Telemetry Status indicate the following failure conditions 

The GPS status is continuously monitored by analyzing the status byte located within each heartbeat message. A GPS Invalid overlay will first be displayed when the UAT indicates that GPS data is invalid. The GPS icon in the display will also change from green to yellow during this time. Once the invalid status has been maintained for ten consecutive heartbeat messages the GPS Invalid overlay is replaced by GPS Fail and Red X screen overlay. The GPS status icon also converts from yellow to red. If the status byte indicates valid GPS data at any time the GPS overlays are removed and the status icon reverts to green indicating a nominal state.

The ADS B status is also continuously monitored a UAT Failure occurs if the UAT bit failure indication or if all communication with the ADS B unit is lost for 10 consecutive seconds. This event can be attributed to a total hardware failure anywhere in the system. Once this condition is recognized a UAT Fail overlay is displayed and the ADS B icon becomes red. Finally the Lost Link status alert is continuously monitored by the loss link module by analyzing invalid checksum operations. Corrupted ADS B data or no data herein is considered a malfunction and the telemetry icon becomes red.

Examining an operating display in Manual View it can be seen that there are currently a total of three real time aircraft being tracked flying within the viewing limits. The position history is stored and displayed via color coded contrails. The target labeled traffic has breached the 5 nautical mile separation threshold outermost range ring and is within 1000 feet of altitude causing a Traffic Alert overlay to be displayed to the user. On the left of the display all relevant ownship information is visible with hardware status indicators located directly above. The current flight plan is also displayed . Further the image overlay in the upper right corner currently recognizes three TIS B targets one ADS B target and one intruder . In the manual view modality the field of view limits can be manipulated to a worldwide view or to any user spatially oriented viewpoint. The ADS B laptop display herein is utilized for visual and or aural display to the flight crew as well as for performing routine maintenance of the ADS B system.

Traffic for a plurality of targets can be selected at the far left with the highest priority traffic ranked order from 1 to 32 relative to ownship. The selected traffic target displays the ADS B surveillance information including ICAO NIC and NAC. Further the traffic relative bearing range altitude and vertical trend are depicted to aid in visual acquisition. Finally to improve pilot situational awareness the surveillance information from nearby aircraft is continuously monitored and compared to the current ownship position. If any other aircraft s e.g. 54 relative horizontal separation distance falls below 5 NM and reports vertical separation within 1000 feet of the current ownship position the target is deemed an intruder and the pilot is alerted via a Traffic Alert overlay . In this case the target s icon changes color from blue to yellow on the display. In the event that the horizontal separation is less than 3 NM and the target reports an altitude within 500 feet the target becomes a threat and the pilot is notified via a flashing Traffic Alert overlay and aural alert as well as a change of icon color from yellow to red. The traffic symbols for TIS B are depicted as Icon based standard symbols from RTCA DO 317A.

The above described system has been deployed and tested on an Ikhana Predator B UAS using Garmin s ADS B capable GDL 90 installed in the forward avionics bay depicted in . For flight testing all RF transmission to the GCS took place over the GPI link. The FAA ADS B streaming data was received as backup. The Ikhana Predator B UAS underwent four highly successful flights as the first high performance large UAS integrated with ADS B Out and ADS B In functionality. The FAA monitored all flights and collected data for post flight analysis. After viewing the results it was found that the system performed exceptionally well producing errors far below the mandated requirements.

This description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example in another preferred embodiment the UAS can be outfitted with a dual link ADS B device that transmits on 1090 Mhz and receives on both 1090 and 978 MHz.

In yet another embodiment the components of the UAS may be deployed in a surface vehicle. For example an emergency response unit and or and gas truck can be outfitted with portable ADS B devices and portable UAT and GPS antennas as described above.

In yet another embodiment designed for manned aircraft an iPad or other tablet or portable computer may be equipped with the same UAS ADS B software resident at GCS for traffic situational awareness of the pilot. illustrates the ADS B system of adapted for a general aviation manned aerial vehicle for increased situational awareness and self separation assurance. In this instance the GCS display is replaced by one or more onboard portable tablet computers having one or more processors using touch screen display s and interfaced as described previously. The tablet s and control panel are provided to the pilot in the cockpit of the conventional aircraft and are connected directly to the UAT for enhanced ownship situational awareness of the airborne pilot. This embodiment also employs a dedicated converter with memory buffers similar to described above for converting the consolidated ADS B Out and ADS B In messages to the proper serial protocol of the tablet s via direct serial communications.

It should be understood that various changes may be made in the form details arrangement and proportions of the components. Such changes do not depart from the scope of the invention which comprises the matter shown and described herein and set forth in the appended claims.

