---

title: Automatic wireless device message management responsive to end user preferences
abstract: Automatically retrieving messages by a wireless telephone based on user preferences. A method of the invention receives a notification, on a wireless device, indicating that a computing device has a message for a user. One or more rules associated with the user are evaluated based on the received notification. The method also automatically requests the message from the computing device as a function of the evaluated rules and received from the computing device. The method further stores the received message in a memory area of the wireless telephone for rendering to the user. Alternatively, one or more rules associated with the user are dynamically generated by monitoring the user interaction with the wireless telephone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451424&OS=09451424&RS=09451424
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09451424
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application is a continuation of and claims benefit to U.S. Pat. No. 8 620 276 entitled AUTOMATIC WIRELESS DEVICE MESSAGE MANAGEMENT RESPONSIVE TO END USER PREFERENCES filed Mar. 6 2012 which application is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 155 624 filed Apr. 29 2005 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the field of voicemail retrieval for mobile devices. In particular embodiments of this invention relate to dynamically retrieving messages according to end user preferences and configurations on wireless devices.

The popularity of cellular or mobile devices has been increasing significantly. Unlike traditional corded or land line telephones cellular or mobile devices offer improved portability flexibility and convenience to individuals to communicate with others. In addition with factors such as continuing advances in mobile phone technology reduction of billing plan prices and ever expanding coverage areas by mobile service providers hereinafter service providers cellular or other mobile wireless devices have become immersed into many people s everyday lives.

Currently to use a wireless telephone a user often purchases a wireless telephone with a one or two year billing plan or with a short term contract e.g. a month to month or pre paid billing plan offered by a service provider. The billing plan usually subjects the user to a monthly service fee for an allotted monthly wireless usage. For example the monthly service fee may be 29.99 for wireless usage of 300 minutes per month. Additional minutes over the allotted monthly usage are charged to the user according to a per minute rate e.g. 0.40 per minute and the user pays a roaming charge when the user is outside the service provider s coverage area. The billing plan customarily offers features such as voice mail text messaging caller identification ID call waiting or the like. In addition depending on the types of wireless telephones the service provider may offer additional services such as ring tone download Internet access sending email sending email with pictures e.g. especially with a wireless telephone equipped with a built in digital camera or the like.

Also many wireless telephones provide features such as a telephone book speed dialing calendar organizer etc. As a result the users customarily set personal device preferences such as a particular ring tone when a particular person or a group of person e.g. family members calls. Alternatively the users may input telephone numbers to the telephone book set the clock according to the time zone or the like.

While the users may set user preferences to the wireless telephone defining how to use the device the users have not been able to set user preferences on the wireless telephone defining how to receive messages and or telephone calls. For example when the user fails to answer an incoming call the service provider customarily routes the call to a voicemail messaging system managed by the service provider. The voicemail messaging system plays a prerecorded greetings e.g. recorded by the user or assigned by system default and prompts the caller to leave messages for the user. The messages are received and stored on the service provider s data storage for future playback.

To retrieve and listen to the voice messages conventional wireless telephone systems typically send a visual or audible notification to the user s wireless telephone indicating that there is a voicemail waiting. The user must then call the voicemail messaging system enter a password and navigate a set of menu options to retrieve the message. The wireless usage used to retrieve the message is typically counted against the user s allotted monthly usage. The calls may also be prolonged if the user wishes to replay the message due to poor reception or length of the message.

Some systems automatically push voicemail messages to the user s wireless telephone for storage. However the user may not wish to store a long voicemail message on the wireless telephone or the wireless telephone may not have sufficient storage to store the message. Some other systems prompt the user to decide whether to download each message. These systems however require the user to make such a download decision every time a voicemail message notification is received. Even if the wireless telephone has sufficient storage to store the message this repetitive interaction degrades the user experience.

Accordingly client initiated system for dynamically and automatically retrieving messages in response to end user preferences is desired to address one or more of these and other disadvantages.

Embodiments of the present invention enable a user to dynamically and automatically retrieve messages responsive to user preferences or rules on a wireless device. As such the user may efficiently conveniently and automatically retrieve the messages. The user preferences may be user specific device specific or specific to a particular message type. Further embodiments of the present invention monitor user interaction with the wireless device to dynamically generate the preferences. In one embodiment the invention adapts the preferences to the configuration of the service providers e.g. billing plan to minimize the cost involved in downloading or listening to the voicemail messages. As a result the invention greatly enhances the user experience on the wireless device.

According to one aspect of the invention a computerized method automatically retrieves messages by a wireless telephone based on user preferences. The computerized method receives on a wireless telephone a notification indicating that a computing device has a message for a user. One or more rules associated with the user are evaluated based on the received notification. The rules specify one or more user preferences. The computerized method also automatically requests the message from the computing device as a function of the evaluated rules. The computerized method further receives the requested message from the computing device according to the specified user preferences. The received message is stored in a memory area of the wireless telephone for rendering to the user.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a system comprises a client wireless interface a memory area and a processor. The client wireless interface communicates with a server the client wireless interface is associated with a client wireless device. The memory area stores retrieval conditions. The processor is configured to execute computer executable instructions for monitoring interaction between a user and the client wireless device. The processor also executes computer executable instructions for receiving a message waiting notification from the server via the client wireless interface and for dynamically generating the retrieval conditions stored in the memory area as a function of the monitored interaction. The processor further executes computer executable instructions for evaluating based on the received message waiting notification the generated retrieval conditions and for automatically requesting a message from the server as a function of the evaluated retrieval conditions. In addition the processor executes computer executable instructions for receiving the requested message from the server and for storing the received message in the memory area for rendering to the user. The user interface renders the received message to the user in response to a request from the user.

According to a further aspect of the invention one or more computer readable media have computer executable components for automatic retrieval of messages by a wireless telephone based on user preferences. An indicator component receives on a wireless telephone a notification indicating that a computing device has a message for a user. A rule component analyzes based on the notification received by the indicator component one or more preferences defined by the user. A retrieval component automatically requests the message from the computing device as a function of the analyzed preferences and receives the requested message from the computing device. A memory component stores the received message in a memory area of the wireless telephone for rendering to the user.

Appendix A includes exemplary pseudocode for automatically retrieving voicemail messages based on user preferences and environmental factors.

Referring first to an exemplary diagram illustrates a system for automatically retrieving messages by a wireless telephone based on user preferences according to one embodiment of the invention. While illustrates a wireless telephone the invention is not limited to wireless telephones. The invention is operable with any wireless device or other device that provides access to messages and includes a storage area for the messages. The system includes a computing device and the wireless telephone . In one embodiment the computing device includes a computer a computer server or a collection of servers linked by a communication network e.g. an intranet an internet or the like . In another embodiment the computing device may be a messaging computer system configured to process voice mail messages text messages such as short message service SMS messages instant messages mobile messages graphical messages e.g. pictures icon or other graphical elements electronic mails i.e. emails or the like for wireless service users. The computing device may also include a storage medium such as a volatile memory a non volatile memory or a combination of one or more volatile or non volatile memory for storing data such as a message .

The wireless telephone may be a mobile cellular telephone a mobile device a wireless device a personal digital assistant PDA or other wireless device that is capable of sending and receiving messages such as the message . The wireless telephone includes an indicator component a rule component a retrieval component a memory and a display . The wireless telephone may also include a processor and other components as shown in . It is also to be understood that additional components or devices of the wireless telephone may be implemented without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Initially a user establishes a wireless telephone service with a service provider which manages and controls aspects of the computing device . The wireless telephone service may include services such as caller ID call waiting voice mail text messaging or the like. When the user fails to answer a telephone call made to the wireless telephone the computing device directs the call to a storage area accessible by the computing device to prompt the caller to leave a message for the user . Once the caller leaves a message for the user the computing device sends a notification in a form of signals containing data indicating that the message is available for the user . The indicator component uses for example an antenna not shown and a transceiver not shown of the wireless telephone to receive the signals. Upon detecting the signals from the computing device the indicator component receives the notification indicating that the computing device has the message for the user .

In response to the received notification from the indicator component the rule component of the wireless telephone evaluates one or more rules preferences or the like associated with the user . is an exemplary diagram illustrating exemplary rules or preferences associated with the user on the wireless telephone according to one embodiment of the invention. In particular describes an exemplary navigation menu for setting exemplary rules or preferences associated with the user on the wireless telephone . For example the display of the wireless telephone presents to the user a number of navigation rules or preferences in customizing the wireless telephone . One of the rules or preferences may be included in a rule option for setting rules associated with the user. The rule option further provides more detailed options such as a service rule option and a device rule option . The service rule option may include a voicemail rule option having a set of rules . In one embodiment the set of rules includes rules for access and pin number settings download rules and or automatically instructing the computing device to direct a caller to the user s voicemail box when the user is outside the service provider s coverage area e.g. roaming .

Still referring to in particular the download rules include additional provisions such as automatic download with no delay or automatic download after a delay of 5 or 10 minutes. The user may also choose any of the following download rule options download all messages download messages not during roaming download messages only during periods when the minutes are not counted against the user s overall wireless charges download the most recent five messages only download the caller s information only without downloading the actual voicemail message automatically check the memory capacity of the wireless telephone before downloading messages download text messages only download graphical messages only or download messages that last less than three minutes. In one embodiment the user may prefer to download only an initial portion of each message and additional portions thereafter. For example the user may request via the GUI of the wireless telephone to download another portion of the message . In this manner the user may minimize the size of each message stored on the wireless telephone and selectively minimize air time usage. In other words the user may select one or more rules in the set of rules .

In one embodiment the user may select the monitor user interactions to dynamically generate rules option in to allow the wireless telephone to dynamically generate rules. For example suppose the user selects this dynamic rule generation option when the user first started using the wireless telephone . The rule component analyzes the usage of the wireless telephone by the user .

Still referring to in an alternative embodiment where the user has selected to have the wireless telephone dynamically generate rules the rule component evaluates device related metrics in generating rules or preferences. For example the signal strength and battery usage of the wireless telephone may determine when the messages may be retrieved from the computing device . For example the rule component may generate a rule that the wireless telephone would not download any voicemail message when the signal strength is less than 20 or the battery power strength is less than 10 . According to this rule the retrieval component would automatically requesting the message from the computing device when the signal strength is about 80 or the battery power strength is about 90 .

In another example if the billing plan of the user provides that the user has purchased 500 wireless minutes with unlimited usage on the weekends the rule component would dynamically generate rules such as ask the user first to download voicemail messages during weekdays i.e. Monday through Friday or only download voicemail messages on the weekends i.e. Saturday and Sunday or at another specified time. In other words in response to the user s interaction with and usage of the wireless telephone the rule component dynamically generates suitable rules to evaluate the received notification .

Returning to in one embodiment the wireless telephone includes a history component for monitoring and storing the user interaction with the wireless telephone . For example the history component monitors and stores the user s usage for a period of time to assist the rule component to dynamically generate rules for the user. In another embodiment the history component monitors and stores the user s usage for a period of time that coincides with the billing plan cycle or contract term. For example the user may have a billing plan with a one year contract. As such the history component may monitor and store the user s interaction on a semi annual or an annual basis. On the other hand the user may have a month to month billing plan contract and the history component automatically monitors and stores the user s interaction on a bi weekly basis or the like. In yet another embodiment the wireless component also includes a preference component for defining the preferences as a function of the interaction monitored and stored by the history component or as a function of input received from the user via a graphical user interface GUI not shown . For example the preference component interacts with the history component and presents a set of preferred rules to the user via the display . Such preferred rules may be further monitored and stored by the history component for future use by the preference component .

In as the rule component analyzes one or more preferences or rules defined by or associated with the user based on the notification received by the indicator component the retrieval component automatically requests the message from the computing device as a function of the evaluated rules. In one embodiment the retrieval component places a call to the computing device to retrieve the message as a function of the evaluated rules. For example if the rule component determines that the user prefers to download each message having a duration of less than three minutes at 9 05 P.M. every day the retrieval component automatically requests the message if any that is less than 3 minutes at sometime immediately prior to 9 05 P.M. from the computing device . In other words instead of requesting a confirmation or asking the user to decide whether to download the messages every time the notification is received the retrieval component automatically requests the message to be downloaded from the wireless telephone to the computing device . As such embodiments of the present invention advantageously provide flexible and convenient usage of the wireless telephone to the user .

The user experience differs from that of a push system such as in conventional systems where all messages are pushed from the computing device to the wireless telephone upon receipt of each message by the computing device . In such conventional systems the user lacks control of how and when the message should be received. Instead a client initiated pull based on a set of preferences and rules according to aspects of the present invention as shown in permits the user to download and access the message according to user preference. Such advantages further reduce the user s cost of using the wireless telephone .

After automatically requesting the message from the computing device the wireless telephone receives the message via the antenna and the transceiver not shown . The wireless telephone stores the received message in the memory and renders the message to the user via the display or an audio component for voicemail messages when requested by the user .

In another embodiment other rules options choices or settings may be included in the set of rules for the user . While describes the set of rules in response to the voicemail rules different sets of rules may apply to other types of messages such as text messages graphical messages or email messages on the wireless telephone . As such in this alternative embodiment the user may define or the rule component may dynamically generate one or more rules relating to the text message such as the user only receives text messages from recognizable telephone numbers from the user s telephone book or not to receive any text messages except those sent by the service provider. Such rules aid in limiting the amount of text message spam that may be received by the wireless telephone thereby reducing air time costs. As such the retrieval component automatically requests or automatically inhibits requesting the message from the computing device as a function of the preferences or rules analyzed or evaluated by the rule component .

Referring now to exemplary diagrams illustrate a graphical user interface of a wireless telephone according to an embodiment of the invention. The wireless telephone includes a speaker a microphone a display a set of navigation buttons and a dial pad . It is to be understood that other components such as the antenna transceiver power source wireless interface e.g. client wireless interface or other known functional components of a wireless telephone or wireless device may be included in the wireless telephone and are not shown in . It is to be further understood that the wireless telephone may have any number of physical configurations without deviating from the scope of the invention.

As shown in the display shows an interactive user preference or rule menu for user to set message preferences. A heading displays the heading to which a group of sub headings belong. For example in the message preferences heading a number of sub headings or preferences the user may select such as access and pin numbers network settings message retrieval and service plan setting. It is to be understood that other options headings or preferences may be included under the Message Preferences heading or other headings.

Still referring to as known to those skilled in the art the user may use one or more buttons in the set of the navigation buttons to navigate the menu or options shown on the display . For example the user selects the option or preference message retrieval as shown by the dashed box with a check mark in the box in front of the option by using the buttons in the set of navigation buttons as shown by a dashed box covering the word SELECT . Alternatively the user may select BACK button to return to the previous menu or category.

In response to the user s selection of message retrieval shows a set of additional rules or preferences under a heading message retrieval . The message retrieval heading may include rules or preferences such as download with five minute delay do not download during roaming coverage area download all messages retrieve caller and or call information only automatically and dynamically generate rules download the most recent five messages only download text messages only or download voice messages only. It is to be understood that other rules or preferences may be available to the user . The user may again select one or more rules or preferences by using the buttons in the navigation buttons . For example the user selects the download all rule as shown by a dashed box with a check mark in front of the rule. In one embodiment the wireless telephone provides a visual or an audible confirmation to the user via the display or the speaker upon selection of one or more rules or preferences. In another embodiment the user may select the deselect button to unmark one or more rules or preferences.

Still referring to at the retrieval component automatically requests the message as a function of the evaluated rules. For example suppose the user has defined a rule or preference that she prefers to download the message during off peak periods e.g. after 9 00 P.M. till 6 00 A.M. of the next day . As such if the time when the wireless telephone receives the notification is at 5 32 P.M. the retrieval component would not download the message at 5 33 P.M. Instead the retrieval component would download the message at 9 01 P.M. or at a time during the off peak period when the wireless telephone service is active i.e. the wireless telephone is within the coverage area or the wireless telephone is turned on . The retrieval component may however notify the user of the received message notification to allow the user to manually access the message. The wireless telephone would next receive the message at and the received message is stored in a memory area of the wireless telephone at for the user. In one embodiment the wireless telephone is placed in an automatic retrieval mode to perform elements and . After such performance the wireless telephone is removed from the automatic retrieval mode. In one embodiment one or more computer readable media have computer executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .

One or more application programs are loaded into memory and run on the operating system . Examples of applications include email programs scheduling programs personal information management PIM programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs and so forth. The wireless telephone also has a notification manager loaded in memory which executes on the processor . The notification manager handles notification requests from the applications .

The wireless telephone has a power supply which is implemented as one or more batteries. The power supply might further include an external power source that overrides or recharges the built in batteries such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle.

The wireless telephone is also shown with three types of external notification mechanisms an LED a vibration device and an audio generator . These devices are directly coupled to the power supply so that when activated they remain on for a duration dictated by the notification mechanism even though the processor and other components might shut down to conserve battery power. The LED preferably remains on indefinitely until the user takes action. The current versions of the vibration device and audio generator use too much power for today s batteries and so they are configured to turn off when the rest of the system does or at some finite duration after activation.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN may be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. The invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. The invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in to implement the invention.

The invention includes means for generating the retrieval conditions relating to the text message means for monitoring interaction between the user and the client wireless device means for dynamically generating the retrieval conditions and means for evaluating the retrieval conditions. Hardware and software such as a data structure a user interface an application program an application programming interface API computer executable instructions firmware and the like such as illustrated in the figures constitute means for generating the retrieval conditions relating to the text message means for monitoring interaction between the user and the client wireless device means for dynamically generating the retrieval conditions and means for evaluating the retrieval conditions.

The order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is elements of the methods may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular element before contemporaneously with or after another element is within the scope of the invention.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

In view of the above it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.

As various changes could be made in the above methods and systems without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

