---

title: Indoline compounds as aldosterone synthase inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09550750&OS=09550750&RS=09550750
owner: Elexopharm GMBH
number: 09550750
owner_city: Saarbrücken
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20131002
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 61 710 197 filed Oct. 5 2012 herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates indoline compounds which selectively inhibit aldosterone synthase CYP11B2 with diminished inhibition or affect on steroid 11 hydroxylase CYP11B1 inhibitors. The inventive compounds potentially have utility in treating cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or heart failure. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising the inventive compounds as well as processes for their preparation.

Aldosterone is a steroid hormone secreted in the adrenal cortex. In primary cells of the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney aldosterone binding to the mineralocorticoid receptor MR results in the retention of sodium and water and excretion of potassium which in turn leads to increased blood pressure. Aldosterone also causes inflammation that leads to fibrosis and remodeling in the heart vasculature and kidney. This inflammation may proceed by MR dependent as well as MR independent mechanisms Gilbert K. C. et al. Curr. Opin. Endocrinol. Diabetes Obes. vol. 17 2010 pp. 199 204 .

Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists MRAs such as spironolactone and eplerenone have been used previously to block the effects of aldosterone binding to MR. When given in addition to standard therapies such as angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics the nonselective MRA spironolactone and the selective MRA eplerenone significantly reduced morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure or myocardial infarction Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 341 1999 pp. 709 717 Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 348 2003 pp. 1382 1390 . However the nonselective MRA spironolactone can also bind to and act at other steroid receptors and as a consequence its use is associated with sexual side effects such as gynecomastia dysmenorrhoea and impotence Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 341 1999 pp. 709 717 MacFadyen R. J. et al. Cardiovasc. Res. vol. 35 1997 pp 30 34 Soberman J. E. et al. Curr. Hypertens. Rep. vol. 2 2000 pp 451 456 . Additionally both spironolactone and eplerenone are known to cause elevated plasma potassium levels hyperkalemia and elevated aldosterone levels.

An alternative method of blocking the effects of aldosterone is to inhibit its biosynthesis. CYP11B2 is a mitochondrial cytochrome P450 enzyme that catalyzes the final oxidative steps in the conversion of 11 deoxycorticosterone a steroidal precursor to aldosterone Kawamoto T. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA vol. 89 1992 pp. 1458 1462 . Compounds that inhibit CYP11B2 should thus inhibit the formation of aldosterone. Such compounds particularly those of nonsteroidal structure should provide the beneficial effects of MRAs without the adverse effects derived from steroid receptor binding or MR independent inflammatory pathways. The art has recognized that reducing aldosterone levels by inhibiting aldosterone synthase could represent a new pharmaceutical strategy that might be useful in treating a disorder or disease characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a patient WO2011 088188 to Novartis . Compounds possessing this activity might be expected to treat disease states such as heart failure cachexia acute coronary syndrome Cushing s syndrome or metabolic syndrome.

CYP11B1 is a related enzyme that catalyzes the formation of glucocorticoids such as cortisol an important regulator of glucose metabolism. Because human CYP11B2 and CYP11B1 are greater than 93 homologous it is possible for nonselective compounds to inhibit both enzymes Kawamoto T. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA vol. 89 1992 pp 1458 1462 Taymans S. E. et al. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. vol. 83 1998 pp 1033 1036 . It would be preferable however for therapeutic agents to selectively inhibit CYP11B2 and the formation of aldosterone with diminished inhibition of or affect on CYP11B1 and the production of cortisol.

WO 2009 135651 to Elexopharm describes 6 pyridin 3yl 3 4 dihydro 1H quinolin 2 one derivatives as being CYP11B2 inhibitors. Two compounds described therein are lactam derivatives of the formula 

Benzimidazole derivatives are known in the art to treat various disease states. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 897 208 to Aventis Pharmaceuticals describes compounds of the formula 

US 2009 0221591 A1 to Universitat des Saarlandes also discloses compounds that inhibit CYP11B1 and CYP11B2. WO 2009 135651 to Universitat des Saarlandes teaches that compounds of the formula 

WO1999 400094 Bayer AG discloses oxazolidinones with azol containing tricycles as having antibacterial activity.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 381 825 to Takeda describes histone deacetylase inhibitors of the formula Z Q L M where Q is a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic ring L is a substituent providing between 0 10 atoms separation between M and the remainder of the compound M is a substituent capable of complexing with a deacetylase catalytic site and or metal ion and Z is list of bicyclic groups including but not limited to 

Other heterocyclic substituted indoline derivatives are described in WO 2011 119663 to GlaxoSmithKline WO1998 46605 and WO 2000 23444 to Abbott Laboratories WO 2011 095196 to Merck GmbH U.S. Pat. No. 7 872 031 to Vertex Pharmaceuticals. None of the compounds disclosed these published applications is taught to be inhibitors of aldosterone synthase.

In its many embodiments the present invention provides for novel indoline compounds which are inhibitors of CYP11B2 or metabolites stereoisomers salts solvates or polymorphs thereof processes of preparing such compounds pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more such compounds processes of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more such compounds and potentially methods of treatment inhibition or amelioration of one or more disease states associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 by administering an effective amount at least one of the inventive indoline compounds to a patient in need thereof.

In one aspect the present application discloses a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt metabolite solvate prodrug or polymorph of said compound said compound having the general structure shown in Formula I

Ris C O R C O OR C O N R R C S R S O R alkyl which is optionally substituted on or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen cycloalkyl which is optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 by halogen alkyl or haloalkyl aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R arylalkyl wherein the aryl ring is optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or arylalkylcarbonyl wherein the aryl ring is optionally substituted one or more times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR N R C O R NRR C O R C O N R R N R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR N R C O R NRR C O R C O N R R N R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen 

Ris H halogen CN alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen 

Ris H halogen CN alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R or S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRRN R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or monocyclic heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or monocyclic heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris independently H halogen CN OR C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R S O R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO R or S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR OC O R SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Another aspect of the present invention is pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the present invention is pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the present invention potentially is the prevention of one or more disease states associated with inhibiting CPY11B2 by administering an effective amount of at least one of the inventive imidazopyridyl compounds to a patient in need thereof.

It is further contemplated that the combination of the invention could be provided as a kit comprising in a single package at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a pharmaceutical composition and at least one separate pharmaceutical composition such as for example a separate pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic agent.

The compounds of the present invention could be useful in the treatment amelioration or prevention of one or more conditions associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of such treatment. Conditions that could be treated or prevented by inhibiting CYP11B2 include hypertension heart failure such as congestive heart failure diastolic dysfunction left ventricular diastolic dysfunction heart failure including congestive heart failure diastolic dysfunction left ventricular diastolic dysfunction diastolic heart failure systolic dysfunction hypokalemia renal failure including chronic renal failure restenosis syndrome X nephropathy post myocardial infarction coronary heart diseases increased formation of collagen fibrosis and remodeling following hypertension and endothelial dysfunction cardiovascular diseases renal dysfunction liver diseases vascular diseases cerebrovascular diseases retinopathy neuropathy insulinopathy endothelial dysfunction ischemia myocardial and vascular fibrosis myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial infarction left ventricular hypertrophy cardiac lesions vascular wall hypertrophy endothelial thickening or fibrinoid necrosis of coronary arteries.

The compounds of the present invention also might be useful in treating one or more conditions characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a mammal by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of such treatment. Conditions characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a mammal include for example heart failure e.g. acute heart failure acute decompensated heart failure chronic heart failure chronic heart failure with impaired exercise tolerance or chromic heart failure with muscle weakness cachexia e.g. cardiac cachexia COPD induced cachexia cirrhosis induced cachexia tumor induced cachexia or viral HIV induced cachexia acute coronary syndrome Cushing s syndrome or metabolic syndrome.

Another aspect of the present invention could be the use of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment amelioration or prevention of one or more conditions associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 in a patient.

Another aspect of the present invention could be the use of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment amelioration or prevention of one or more conditions associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 in a patient.

This invention further relates to process for the preparation of the compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Moreover this invention also relates to the use of the compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts to validate in vitro assays such as for example the V79 Human CYP11B2 and V79 Human CYP11B1 discussed later in the application.

In an embodiment the present invention provides compounds represented by structural Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the various moieties are as described as above.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts wherein is a single bond.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts wherein is a double bond.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula II

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula III

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula IV

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula V

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula V wherein R R Rand are as defined in Formula I and a is 0 i.e. Ris absent or wherein a is 1 or 2 and Ris alkyl or halo.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris C O R C O OR or C O N R R wherein R Ror Ris as defined as in Formula I.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris arylalkylcarbonyl wherein the aryl ring e.g. phenyl is optionally substituted one or more times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R wherein R R R Rand m are as defined in Formula I e.g. alkyl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris C O R C O OR or C O N R R wherein Ris alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or aryl e.g. phenyl or aryl e.g. phenyl substituted one or twice by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF Ris H and Ris alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or aryl e.g. phenyl or aryl e.g. phenyl substituted one or twice by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compound or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris C O Rand Ris or heteroaryl e.g. a thienyl furanyl or pyrazolyl ring .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compound or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris C S Rand Ris alkyl.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compound or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein Ris benzoyl which is optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl halogen or alkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compound or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V wherein R Rand Rare hydrogen.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiment of Formulae I or III above wherein Ris halogen e.g. F or Cl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiment of Formulae I II or V above wherein Ris halogen e.g. F or Cl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through IV above wherein Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through IV above wherein Ris H alkyl or haloalkyl.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through IV above where Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF haloalkyl e.g. CF or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through IV above where Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl OR where Ralkyl phenyl or phenyl substituted one or twice by halogen OH alkoxy or haloalkoxy haloalkyl e.g. CF or phenyl optionally substituted once or twice by halogen e.g. F or Cl or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through IV described above where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF and Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF haloalkyl e.g. CF or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl or tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through IV described above where Ris H or alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl and Ris CN C O alkyl e.g. acetyl alkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy hydroxyl substituted alkyl or phenyl.

Another embodiment of the present inventions is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through IV described above or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF and Ris a group of the formula 

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula VI

wherein Ris C O R C S R or benzoyl which is optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl halogen alkoxy or haloalkyl Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl phenyl phenyl substituted once or twice by halogen or alkoxy or heteroaryl e.g. thienyl Ris H CN alkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy hydroxy substituted alkyl halogen phenyl or C O alkyl e.g. acetyl and Ris H alkyl or halogen.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represent by Formula VII

wherein Ris C O R C S R or benzoyl which is optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl halogen alkoxy or haloalkyl Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl phenyl phenyl substituted once or twice by halogen or alkoxy a is 0 i.e. Ris absent or wherein a is 1 or 2 and Ris alkyl or halo.

Another embodiment of the invention is the following compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts 

Another embodiment of the invention is the following compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts 

As used above and throughout this disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings 

The following definitions apply regardless of whether a term is used by itself or in combination with other terms unless otherwise indicated. Therefore the definition of alkyl applies to alkyl as well as the alkyl portions of hydroxyalkyl haloalkyl alkoxy etc.

 Alkyl means an aliphatic hydrocarbon group which may be straight or branched and comprising about 1 to about 20 carbon atoms in the chain. Preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 12 carbon atoms in the chain. More preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain. Branched means that one or more lower alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl are attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl means a group having about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain which may be straight or branched.

 Haloalkyl means a halo alkyl group in which the alkyl group is as previously described. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable haloalkyl groups include fluoromethyl difluoromethyl CHCF CHCHF CHCHF or an alkyl group with one or more terminal carbons tri substituted with a halogen e.g. F such as for example C Calkyl CF CH CH CF CH CF and the like.

 Cycloalkyl means a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms. Preferred cycloalkyl rings contain about 5 to about 7 ring atoms. The cycloalkyl can be optionally substituted with one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined above. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Non limiting examples of suitable multicyclic cycloalkyls include 1 decalinyl norbornyl adamantyl and the like as well as partially saturated species such as for example indanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

 Aryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 6 to about 14 carbon atoms preferably about 6 to about 10 carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of suitable aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl indenyl tetrahydronaphthyl and indanyl.

 Heterocycloalkyl means a non aromatic saturated monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the atoms in the ring system is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination. There are no adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms present in the ring system. Preferred heterocyclyls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heterocycloalkyl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. Any NH in a heterocycloalkyl ring may exist protected such as for example as an N Boc N CBz N Tos group and the like such protections are also considered part of this invention. The nitrogen or sulfur atom of the heterocycloalkyl ring can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide S oxide or S S dioxide. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic heterocycloalkyl rings include piperidyl pyrrolidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolidinyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 4 dioxanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrothiophenyl lactam lactone and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 5 to about 14 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the ring atoms is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination provided that the rings do not include adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms. N oxides of the ring nitrogens are also included as well as compounds wherein a ring nitrogen is substituted by an alkyl group to form a quaternary amine. Preferred heteroaryls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heteroaryl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. A nitrogen atom of a heteroaryl can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide. Non limiting examples of suitable heteroaryls include pyridyl pyrazinyl furanyl thienyl pyrimidinyl pyridone including N substituted pyridones isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl pyrimidyl furazanyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl quinoxalinyl phthalazinyl oxindolyl naphthyridyl e.g. 1 5 or 1 7 pyrido 2 3 imidazolyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl imidazo 2 1 b thiazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl indolyl azaindolyl benzimidazolyl benzothienyl quinolinyl imidazolyl thienopyridyl quinazolinyl thienopyrimidyl pyrrolopyridyl imidazopyridyl isoquinolinyl benzoazaindolyl 1 2 4 triazinyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl pyridopyrimidinyl 7 azaindolyl and the like. The term heteroaryl also refers to partially saturated heteroaryl moieties such as for example tetrahydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl and the like. All positional isomers are contemplated e.g. 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl and 4 pyridyl.

It should be noted that in heterocycloalkyl ring systems of this invention there are no hydroxyl groups on carbon atoms adjacent to a N O or S as well as there are no N or S groups on carbon adjacent to another heteroatom. Thus for example in the ring 

When Rand Rare joined together to form a 5 7 membered carbocyclic ring that is fused to the pyridyl ring to which Rand Rare attached carbocyclic means a cycloalkyl aryl or partially unsaturated ring composed of 5 7 carbon atoms wherein two of the carbons are shared between the fused rings. When Rand Rare joined together to form a 5 7 membered heterocyclic ring that is fused to the pyridyl ring to which Rand Rare attached heterocyclic means a fully saturated partially saturated or aromatic ring composed of carbon atoms and one two or three heteroatoms selected from N S or O wherein two of the carbons are shared between the fused rings. Representative ring include 

When a moiety can be optionally substituted it means that each carbon and heteroatom when present available for substitution in the given moiety may be independently unsubstituted or substituted with specified number of substituents that are the same or different at each occurrence and which result in the creation of a stable structure as is understood to be reasonable by one skilled in the art.

Unless expressly depicted or described otherwise variables depicted in a structural formula with a floating bond such as Rin structural Formula V are permitted on any available carbon atom in the ring to which each is attached.

When Rand Ror Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a saturated 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring this means a saturated heterocyclic ring composed of in addition to the one nitrogen atom carbon atoms and optionally one additional heteroatom selected from N S or O. Representative examples include 

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R configuration or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula. Similarly when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence individual enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of a compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates including hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I which includes the compounds of Formulae II VII or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates of such compounds and solvated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

When the compounds of Formula I contain one or more acidic or basic groups the invention also includes the corresponding physiologically or toxicologically acceptable salts in particular the pharmaceutically utilizable salts. Thus the compounds of Formula I which contain acidic groups can be used according to the invention for example as alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts or as ammonium salts. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts calcium salts magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or organic amines such as for example ethylamine ethanolamine triethanolamine or amino acids. Compounds of Formula I which contain one or more basic groups i.e. groups which can be protonated can be used according to the invention in the form of their acid addition salts with inorganic or organic acids as for example but not limited to salts with hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide phosphoric acid sulfuric acid nitric acid benzenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acids oxalic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid salicylic acid benzoic acid formic acid propionic acid pivalic acid diethylacetic acid malonic acid succinic acid pimelic acid fumaric acid maleic acid malic acid sulfaminic acid phenylpropionic acid gluconic acid ascorbic acid isonicotinic acid citric acid adipic acid etc. If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

Compounds of the present invention are effective at inhibiting the synthesis of aldosterone by inhibiting CYP11B2 aldosterone synthase and therefore might be useful agents for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders that are associated with elevated aldosterone levels. Accordingly an object of the instant invention is to provide a method for inhibiting aldosterone synthase and more particularly selectively inhibiting CYP11B2 in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering a compound of Formula I to the mammal in an amount effective to inhibit aldosterone synthesis or more particularly to selectively inhibit CYP11B2 in the mammal. A selective inhibitor of CYP11B2 is intended to mean a compound that preferentially inhibits CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1. The inhibition of CYP11B2 as well inhibition of CYP11B1 by the compounds of Formula I can be examined for example in the inhibition assays described below.

In general compounds that have activity as aldosterone synthase inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which have an ICof less than or equal to about 10 M preferably less than or equal to about 250 nM and most preferably less than or equal to about 100 nM in the V79 Human CYP11B2 Assay described below. In general aldosterone synthase inhibitors that are selective for inhibition of CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1 are those that show at least 3 fold greater inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 preferably at least 20 fold inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 and more preferably at least 100 fold greater inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 in the V79 Human CYP11B2 Assay as compared to the V79 Human CYP11B1 Assay.

Due to their ability to inhibit CYP11B2 the compounds of the present invention may be useful to treat and or ameliorate the risk for hypertension hypokalemia renal failure e.g. chromic renal failure restenosis Syndrome X nephropathy post myocardial infarction coronary heart diseases increased formation of collagen fibrosis and remodeling following hypertension and endothelial dysfunction cardiovascular diseases renal dysfunction liver diseases vascular diseases cerebrovascular diseases retinopathy neuropathy insulinopathy endothelial dysfunction heart failure e.g. congestive heart failure diastolic heart failure left ventricle diastolic dysfunction diastolic heart failure systolic dysfunction ischemia myocardial and vascular fibrosis myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial infarction left ventricular hypertrophy cardiac lesions vascular wall hypertrophy endothelial thickening or necrosis of coronary arteries.

The dosage amount of the compound to be administered depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of Formula I. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the compound will be administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting days months years or the life of the patient.

In general a daily dose of approximately 0.001 to 30 mg kg preferably 0.001 to 20 mg kg in particular 0.01 to 10 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose is preferably administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered can be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses and may be for example but not limited to 0.1 mg 0.25 mg 0.5 mg 0.75 mg 1 mg 1.25 mg 1.5 mg 2 mg 2.5 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg etc. on a daily basis. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose.

The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term preventing or prevention as used herein refers to administering a compound before the onset of clinical symptoms.

It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

In the methods of treatment of this invention the compound may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as for example orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred particularly solid oral dosage units such as pills tablets or capsules.

Accordingly this invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as pills tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose mannitol calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other customary additives for example wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques for aesthetic purposes to mask taste or for other reasons. Coatings can also be used to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier is comprised of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Furthermore a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for inhibiting aldosterone synthase inhibiting CYP11B2 for normalizing a disturbed aldosterone balance or for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein.

The amount of active compound of Formula I and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical composition may be for example but not limited to from 0.1 to 200 mg preferably from 0.1 to 50 mg per dose on a free acid free base weight basis but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical composition and potency of the active ingredient it could also be lower or higher. Pharmaceutical compositions usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the active compound on a free acid free base weight basis.

Since the compounds of Formula I inhibit aldosterone synthase apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on aldosterone synthase and aldosterone levels is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of Formula I can also be employed as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents or therapeutic agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. An additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of Formula I. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to the following pharmaceutically acceptable salts metabolites solvates prodrugs or polymorphs thereof angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moexepril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril dual inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme ACE and neutral endopeptidase NEP such as omapatrilat sampatrilat and fasidotril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. candesartan eprosartan irbesartan losartan olmesartan telmisartan valsartan neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists renin inhibitors e.g. enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine bepridil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil nicardipine nifedipine niludipine nimodipine nisoldipine veraparmil potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide including loop diuretics such as ethacrynic acid furosemide bumetanide and torsemide sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly in niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin and gemigliptin or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide.

In general the compounds in the invention may be produced by a variety of processes know to those skilled in the art and by know processes analogous thereto. The invention disclosed herein is exemplified by the following preparations and examples which should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Alternative mechanistic pathways and analogous structures will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The practitioner is not limited to these methods and one skilled in the art would have resources such as Chemical Abstracts or Beilstein at his or her disposal to assist in devising an alternative method of preparing a specific compound.

The compounds of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the following Schemes using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by the specific Examples which follow. Moreover by utilizing the procedures described herein one of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare additional compounds of the present invention claimed herein.

Throughout the synthetic schemes abbreviations are used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

AcCN acetonitrile aq aqueous Ar aryl BSA bovine serum albumin Bu butyl t Bu tert butyl n BuLi n butyllithium conc conc. concentrated DMAP 4 dimethylaminopyridine DME dimethyl ether DCM dichloromethane DMEM Dulbecco s modified eagle medium DMF N N dimethylformamide eq. equivalent s EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid Et ethyl EtOAc ethyl acetate EtOH ethanol FBS Fetal Bovine Serum h hr hour HPLC High pressure liquid chromatography HTRF homogenous time resolved fluorescence i PrOH isopropanol i Pr isopropyl LCMS liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy Me methyl MeOH methanol min min. minute MS mass spectroscopy NCS N Chlorosuccinimide NMR nuclear magnetic resonance PBS phosphate buffered saline Pd C palladium on activated carbon Ph phenyl Pr propyl Py pyridyl OAc acetate RT rt room temperature sat. saturated TEA triethylamine TFA trifluroracetic acid THF tetrahydrofuran.

As will be known to those skilled in the art in all schemes the products of Formula I and all synthetic intermediates may be purified from unwanted side products reagents and solvents by recrystallization trituration preparative thin layer chromatography flash chromatography on silica gel as described by W. C. Still et al J. Org. Chem. 1978 43 2923 or reverse phase HPLC. Compounds purified by HPLC may be isolated as the corresponding salt.

Additionally in some instances the final compounds of Formula I and synthetic intermediates may be comprised of a mixture of cis and trans isomers enantiomers or diastereomers. As will be known to those skilled in the art such cis and trans isomers enantiomers and diastereomers may be separated by various methods including crystallization chromatography using a homochiral stationary phase and in the case of cis trans isomers and diastereomers normal phase and reverse phase chromatography.

Chemical reactions were monitored by LCMS and the purity and identity of the reaction products were assayed by LCMS electrospray ionization and NMR. Data for H NMR are reported with chemical shift ppm multiplicity s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet br s broad singlet br m broad multiplet coupling constant Hz and integration. Unless otherwise noted all LCMS ions listed are M H . All temperatures are degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. They should neither be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention nor limiting the invention in any way.

BOCO 9.70 g 44.4 mmol was added to solution of commercially available 5 bromoindoline 8 g 40.4 mmol in THF 20 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated and the crude was chromatographed on a Biotage 65i column eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 0 100 1.7 L to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CHCl d 7.74 s 1H 7.28 m 2H 3.99 m 2H 3.10 m 2 H 1.59 s 9H MS M 1 299.

To a stirred solution of 5 bromoindoline 1 carboxylate 1.0 g 3.35 mmol 3 fluoro 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 0.89 g 4.0 mmol in DME HO 3 1 12 mL was added Pd PPh 0.194 g 0.17 mol and NaCO 1.60 g 15.1 mmol . The mixture was degassed flushed with nitrogen and stirred at 80 C. for 2 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 30 mL brine 30 ml dried NaSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on a biotage 45M column eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 0 100 1.2 L to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CHCl d 8.66 m 1 H 8.42 m 1 H 7.96 m 1H 7.55 7.45 m 1 H 7.43 7.36 m 2 H 4.06 m 2 H 3.19 m 2 H 1.65 s 9H MS M 1 315.

TFA 5 mL was added to a solution of tert butyl 5 5 fluoropridine 3 yl indolin 1 carboxylate 1 3 860 g 2.74 mmol in methylene chloride 5 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with methylene chloride 50 mL and washed with saturated NaHCO 30 mL water 30 mL and brine 30 mL dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated. The crude product was chromatographed on a Biotage 45M column eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 0 100 1.4L to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CHCl d 8.64 s 1 H 8.37 d 1 H 7.54 dt 1 H 7.37 s 1 H 7.26 m 1H 6.74 d 1 H 3.67 t 2 H 3.14 t 2 H MS M 1 215.

To a solution of 5 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl indoline 1 4 0.040 g 0.187 mmol in methylene chloride 5 mL TEA 0.078 mL 0.56 mmol and acetyl chloride 0.030 g 0.373 mmol were added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated and the crude was purified by reverse phase Gilson SunFire C18 column eluting with water AcCN 5 40 in 12 min. to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.67 s 1 H 8.44 s 1 H 8.33 d J 8.3 Hz 1 H 7.61 d J 9.5 Hz 1 H 7.46 7.41 m 2 H 4.24 4.11 m 2 H 3.39 3.27 m 2 H 2.49 s 1 H 2.29 s 3 H MS M 1 257.

TEA 0.078 mL 0.56 mmol and isocyanatomethane 0.021 g 0.373 mmol were added to a solution of 5 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl indoline 0.040 g 0.187 mmol in methylene chloride 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated and the crude was purified by reverse phase Gilson SunFire C18 column eluting with water AcCN 5 40 in 12 min. to yield 5 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl N methylindoline 1 carboxamide. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl . 8.66 s 1 H 8.42 s 1 H 8.06 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 7.57 dt J 9.8 2.2 Hz 1 H 7.46 7.38 m 2 H 4.65 d J 5.6 Hz 1 H 3.99 t J 8.7 Hz 2 H 3.29 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 2.96 d J 4.6 Hz 3 H MS M 1 272.

A mixture of commercially available 1 acetyl 5 bromoindoline 43 1 7.0 g 29.2 mmol and NCS 4.28 g 32.1 mmol in 300 mL of acetonitrile was heated under reflux for 24 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was chromatography on a Biotage 65i column eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 0 5 to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.45 s 0 H 7.29 s 1 H 4.19 t J 7.6 Hz 2 H 3.10 3.03 m 2 H 2.30 s 3 H MS M 1 275.5.

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 step B using 1 5 bromo 7 chloroindolin 1 yl ethanone in place of bromoindoline 1 carboxylate as the starting material. The product was purified by reverse phase Gilson SunFire C18 column eluting with water AcCN 5 50 in 12 min. to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 10.16 s 1 H 9.89 s 1 H 9.53 s 1 H 9.33 d J 7.8 Hz 1 H 8.85 s 1 H 8.64 s 1 H 5.45 5.38 m 2 H 4.37 4.31 m 2 H 3.56 3.48 m 3 H . MS M 1 273.

To a stirred solution of 6 chloro 1H indole 5 g 33.0 mmol in glacial acetic acid 93 ml at 15 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added in one portion sodium cyanoborohydride 6.22 g 99 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 15 C. for 2 h. Water 500 mL was added and the mixture was cooled in an ice bath and slowly made strongly basic with sodium hydroxide pallets. The mixture was extracted with ether 4 200 mL . The ether extracts were washed with water 400 ml brine 400 mL dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.02 d J 7.8 Hz 1 H 6.68 dd J 7.8 1.9 Hz 1 H 6.62 d J 1.9 Hz 1 H 3.61 t J 8.4 Hz 2 H 3.54 s 1 H 3.01 t J 8.4 Hz 2 H MS M 1 14.3.

To a stirred solution of 6 chloroindoline 44 1 4.0 g 26.0 mmol at 0 C. in methylene chloride 25 mL was added TEA 14.5 mL 104 mmol and acetyl chloride 4.1 g 53 mmol . The mixture was stirred to room temperature 1 h and diluted with methylene chloride 100 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 2 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 ml dried MgSO filtered and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.25 s 1 H 7.08 d J 7.9 Hz 1 H 6.99 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 4.13 4.05 m 2 H 3.21 3.07 m 2 H 2.23 s 3 H MS M 1 180.17.

To a stirred solution of 1 6 chloroindolin 1 yl ethanone 44 2 4.2 g 21.4 mmol in acetic acid 200 mL at 0 C. was added bromine 1.1 mL 21.4 mmol . The mixture was stirred to room temperature 4 h and the product ppt. was filtered off to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.31 s 1 H 7.35 s 1 H 4.08 t J 8.5 Hz 2 H 3.19 3.12 m 2 H 2.22 s 3 H MS M 1 275.2.

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 step B using 1 5 bromo 6 chloroindolin 1 yl ethanone in place of bromoindoline 1 carboxylate as the starting material. The product was purified by reverse phase Gilson SunFire C18 column eluting with water AcCN 5 50 in 12 min. to give the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.92 s 1 H 8.81 d J 5.6 Hz 1 H 8.45 s 1 H 8.06 bs 1 H 7.89 t J 6.8 Hz 1 H 7.21 s 1 H 4.24 4.16 m 2 H 3.32 3.25 m 2 H 2.31 s 3 H MS M 1 273.03

A suspension of 5 bromoindole 250 mg 1.26 mmol pyridin 3 ylboronic acid 186 mg 1.51 mmol sodium carbonate 667 mg 6.30 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium O 73 mg 0.06 mmol in dimethoxyethane 30 mL and water 10 mL was stirred at 90 C. under nitrogen for 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature slowly and then diluted with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layers were washed with brine twice and dried over MgSO. After evaporation in vacuo the resulting residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel EtOAc n hexane 1 100 to 1 2 to yield a pale yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.37 ddd J 0.8 4.8 7.9 Hz 1H 7.41 m 1H 7.49 m 2H 7.59 m 2H 7.88 dt J 2.0 7.9 Hz 1H 8.60 dd J 1.6 4.8 Hz 1H 8.86 dd J 0.6 2.4 Hz 1H .

To a stirred solution of 50 1 163 mg 0.84 mmo in 1 2 dichloroethane 6 mL was added triethylamine 0.17 ml 1.26 mmol acetic anhydride 0.30 ml 3.28 mmol and DMAP 20 mg 0.16 mmol in sequence under N. The solution was heated to 60 C. for 8 h. Upon cooling to ambient temperature the reaction was diluted with EtOAc 6 mL and washed with a saturated solution of ammonium chloride and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL .The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc n hexane 1 50 to 1 2 to give pale yellow crystals. mp 138 140 C. R 0.16 EtOAc n hexane 1 1 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 2.67 s 3H 6.71 d J 3.8 Hz 1H 7.38 dd J 4.8 7.9 Hz 1H 7.48 d J 3.7 Hz 1H 7.57 dd J 1.8 8.5 Hz 1H 7.77 d J 1.7 Hz 1H 7.93 dt J 1.8 7.9 Hz 1H 8.54 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 8.59 dd J 1.5 4.8 Hz 1H 8.90 d J 1.8 Hz 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 23.9 109.2 117.1 119.4 123.6 124.4 126.1 131.1 133.4 134.7 135.4 137.0 148.0 148.3 168.5. MS ESI m z 237.36 M H .

The title compound were synthesized using 5 bromoindoline 1.80 g 9.09 mmol acyl chloride 0.62 mL 10.9 mmol pyridine 1.10 mL 13.6 mmol and anhydrous THF 35 mL to yield the crude product as grey solids. The crude product was used directly to next step without further purification.

To a solution of 52 1 1.86 g 7.75 mmol in dioxane 31 mL was added bis pinacolato diboron 3.93 g 15.5 mmol Pd dPPf Cl 0.57 g 0.78 mmol and anhydrous potassium acetate 3.80 g 38.7 mmol under N. The reaction was heated at 105 C. for 2 h. Upon cooling to room temperature water 20 mL was added to dilute and the resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 15 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc n hexane 1 50 to 1 2 to yield a pale yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.34 s 12H 2.32 s 3H 3.18 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.05 t J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.62 s 1H 7.67 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 8.19 d J 8.1 Hz 1H .

A suspension of 52 2 150 mg 0.52 mmol 3 bromo 5 fluoropyridine 111 mg 0.63 mmol sodium carbonate 277 mg 2.61 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium O 30 mg 0.03 mmol in dimethoxyethane 9 mL and water 3 mL was stirred at 90 C. under nitrogen for 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature slowly and then diluted with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layers were washed with brine twice and dried over MgSO. After evaporation in vacuo the resulting residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel MeOH CHCl 0 to 2 and crystallization from acetone to yield colorless crystals. mp 178 180 C. R 0.26 MeOH CHCl 1 20 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 2.26 s 3H 3.28 t J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.13 t J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.40 m 2H 7.56 dt J 2.0 9.6 Hz 1H 8.30 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 8.41 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 8.64 s 1H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 24.2 27.9 49.0 117.4 118.1 120.7 d J 18.6 Hz 123.2 126.8 131.5 132.3 136.0 d J 23.3 Hz 138.1 d J 3.6 Hz 143.6 d J 3.2 Hz 159.7 d J 257 Hz 168.9. MS ESI m z 257.76 M H .

Methods for V79 Human CYP11B2 and V79 Human CYP11B1 Assays V79 cell lines stably expressing the either the human CYP11B2 or the human CYP11B1 enzyme were generated using a standard transfection protocol. V79 cells were transfected with plasmids pTriEx3 Hygro hCyp11B2 or pTriEx3 Hygro hCyp11B1 using Lipofectamine 2000 reagent. V79 cells that stably express the human CYP11B2 or human CYP11B1 enzyme were selected for and maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 400 g mL hygromycin for 2 weeks. Single cell clones were generated by infinite dilution in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 400 g mL hygromycin until single colonies were obtained. Clones V79 hCYP11B2 CLE9 and V79 hCYP11B1 CL8C7 were determined to produce the most aldosterone and cortisol respectively and were selected for inhibitor screening. For testing of inhibitors cells were harvested at 80 confluency with 0.05 Trypsan EDTA washed once in PBS and reconstituted in DMEM 0.1 BSA media at a cell concentration of 600 000 cells mL for the CYP11B2 assay and 280 000 cells mL for the CYP11B1 assay. 25 L of cells were added to a 384 well tissue culture treated plate and mixed with 0.3 L of inhibitor or DMSO 1 final DMSO concentration for 1 hour at 37 C. 5 CO. After pre incubation with inhibitor the reaction was initiated by adding 5 L of substrate final concentration of 125 nM 11 deoxycorticosterone for the CYP11B2 assay or 250 nM 11 deoxycortisol for the CYP11B1 assay . The reaction was carried out for 3 hours at 37 C. 5 COand was stopped by harvesting the supernatants. The amount of product in the supernatant aldosterone for CYP11B2 assay and cortisol for the CYP11B1 assay was measured using HTRF based assay kit Aldosterone HTRF CisBio 64ALDPEB Cortisol HTRF CisBio 63IDC002 CORT . ICs for the inhibitor were determined by plotting the amount of product formed against the concentration of inhibitor using sigmoidal dose response curve variable slope fit in GraphPad.

The compounds of Examples 1 20 and 35 49 were tested in the V79 Human CYP11B2 cell assay and found to have ICs for inhibition of human CYP11B2 of less than 10000 nM. A sub group of compounds had ICs less than or equal to 250 nM and a further sub group of compounds had ICs less than or equal to 50 nM.

The compounds of Examples 1 20 and 35 49 were also tested in the V79 Human CYP11B1 cell assay. A sub group of compounds were at least 10 fold more selective for inhibition of CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1 and a further sub group of compounds were at least 30 fold more selective for inhibition of CYP11B2. Representative examples of data collected for compounds of the present invention are shown in Table 6 below.

Compounds 21 34 and 50 58 were assayed with a modified protocol from the one described above and found to have ICs for inhibition of human CYP11B2 of less than 10000 nM. For the CYP11B2 assay cells were reconstituted in DMEM 0.1 BSA media at a cell concentration of 600 000 cells mL and for the CYP11B1 assay cells were reconstituted in DMEM 0.1 BSA media at a cell concentration of 280 000 cells mL. 25 l of cells were added to a 384 well tissue culture treated plate and mixed with 0.30 of inhibitor or DMSO 1 final DMSO concentration for 1 hour at 37 C. 5 CO.

Representative examples of data collected for some of compounds of the present invention using this modified procedure are shown in Table 7 below.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. Recitation or depiction of a specific compound in the claims i.e. a species without a specific stereoconfiguration designation or with such a designation for less than all chiral centers is intended to encompass the racemate racemic mixtures each individual enantiomer a diastereoisomeric mixture and each individual diastereomer of the compound where such forms are possible due to the presence of one or more asymmetric centers. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

