---

title: System and method for differentially processing a location input for content providers that use different location input formats
abstract: The disclosure relates to systems and methods for processing a location input that specifies one or more geographically definable locations for input to individual ones of a plurality of social media or other content providers that have different input formats for specifying locations. A geo-location input may be normalized to an input format that conforms to a particular content provider, which may use a format for the geo-location input that is different that a format used by another content provider. The formatted geo-location input may be communicated to the particular content provider to obtain content from the content provider. The formatting may result in artifacts such as over-inclusive results having excess content and/or under-inclusive results that omit content that should have been provided. The obtained content obtained may corrected based on a determination of whether the content is over-inclusive and/or under-inclusive by removing obtained content and/or adding new content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307353&OS=09307353&RS=09307353
owner: Geofeedia, Inc.
number: 09307353
owner_city: Naples
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
The disclosure relates to systems and methods for processing a location input that specifies one or more geographically definable locations for input to individual ones of a plurality of social media or other content providers that have different input formats for specifying locations.

The availability of content such as videos audio files photos and text over networks such as the Internet has grown at impressive rates. This growth has been fueled largely by the popularity of social media providers platforms that register users receive content from their users and distribute the content to others. Put another way users may be seen as content creators that publish their content through social media platforms. Other content creators publish content using their own websites and or network based exchanges and services such as online forums chat rooms and the like.

In many instances the created content can be automatically tagged with location information related to the content e.g. where the content was created . Social media and other content providers oftentimes provide interfaces that allow location inputs to search for content based on the location information. However different content providers have different formatting requirements for the location information. Thus aggregating content from different content providers based on a location input may be difficult.

The disclosure relates to systems and methods for processing a location input that specifies one or more geographically definable locations for input to individual ones of a plurality of social media or other content providers that have different input formats for specifying locations.

In some embodiments the system may include a computer that facilitates processing a location input. For example the computer may format a location input to be compatible with different formats used by different content providers to receive the location input. In this manner even though content providers may receive location inputs in a limited number of formats the computer may receive location inputs according to a wide range of formats allowing for flexible and scalable location input solutions for content aggregation based on location.

In some embodiments the formatting may result in artifacts such as over inclusive and or under inclusive results. For example a location input by a user may be formatted into a zip code that does not entirely match the actual location input by the user. The zip code may include a greater and or a lesser geographic area than the actual location input leading to over inclusive and or under inclusive results. The computer may be configured to compensate for such artifacts thereby providing location input solutions that are scalable and address artifacts that may result from processing location inputs.

The computer may include one or more processors configured to perform some or all of a functionality of a plurality of modules. For example the one or more processors may be configured to execute a geofeed creation module a geo location processing module a geo location correction module a communication module a user interface module and or other modules.

The geofeed creation module may be configured to receive a request to create a geofeed. The request to create the geofeed may include a specification of one or more geo locations hereinafter a geo location specification . The request may also include one or more geofeed parameters that may be used to filter content into the geofeed and or out of the geofeed. The geo location specification may be defined by one or more geo location inputs. The geofeed creation module may receive a geo location input. The geo location input may comprise a map input a text input and or other input. The geofeed creation module may generate a geofeed definition that includes the geo location specification the one or more geofeed parameters and or other information related to the geofeed. The geofeed definition may be updated. For example the geo location specification the one or more geofeed parameters and or other information of the geofeed definition may be updated. In this manner various parameters related to geofeeds may be defined and updated at the time of specifying the geofeeds and or after the geofeeds have been specified.

A first content provider may accept a first geo location input format that is different from a second geo location input format of a second content provider. The geo location input may not be compatible with the first geo location input format and or the second geo location input format. The geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input to be compatible with the first geo location input format to obtain content from the first content provider and may normalize the geo location input to be compatible with the second geo location input format to obtain content from the second content provider.

The geo location correction module may be configured to determine whether the received content is over inclusive and or under inclusive based on the original geo location input. Based on the determination the geo location correction module may remove and or add content.

The communication module may be configured to communicate one or more geofeeds generated based on the geo location input. In some embodiments the communication module may communicate formatting results correction results and or other information related to processing location inputs.

The user interface module may be configured to generate a user interface that communicates and or displays one or more geofeeds. The content consumer device may display a user interface provided by the user interface module which a content consumer may use to request a geofeed.

Various other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent through the detailed description of the preferred embodiments and the drawings attached hereto. It is also to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and not restrictive of the scope of the invention.

The geo location may be specified by various input mechanisms hereinafter geo location inputs including map inputs and or text inputs. Map inputs may include a specification of a geographical area bounded by a circle polygon visible area of the screen and or other non circular shape drawn using a map interface. Text inputs may include a geo coordinate e.g. latitude longitude altitude depth an address a school a place name a point of interest e.g. White House a zip code a city a state a country and or other information that can spatially identify a geographical area. As used hereinafter a location a geo location a geographically definable location and similar language is not limited to a single location but may also refer to one or more such location.

The content providers may include for example social media platforms e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER INSTAGRAM FLICKR etc. online knowledge databases and or other providers that can distribute content that may be relevant to a geo location. The content may be generated by content sources such as individuals corporations and or other entities that may create content.

In many instances the created content can be automatically tagged with information such as user identifications date time information or geographic information that specifies a location where the content was created. For example cameras equipped with Global Positioning Satellite GPS units or other location aware systems may embed into an image file latitude longitude coordinates that indicate where a picture was taken. In addition modern hand held devices such as smartphones may be equipped with a GPS sensor which allows users to generate content e.g. video audio images text hyperlinks etc. with their devices and immediately share the content through a plurality of social networks. Moreover some devices allow users to manually input the foregoing and other information for embedding into the content. Furthermore editing software may allow a user to embed or otherwise associate information along with the content after the content was created.

System may include a computer a geofeed API a content consumer device provider APIs content providers and or other components. In some embodiments computer may include one or more processors configured to perform some or all of functionality of a plurality of modules. For example the one or more processors may be configured to execute a geofeed creation module a geo location processing module a geo location correction module a communication module a user interface module and or other modules .

Geofeed creation module may be configured to create one or more geofeeds illustrated in as geofeed A B . . . N as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 284 455 filed Oct. 28 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AGGREGATING AND DISTRIBUTING GEOTAGGED CONTENT and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 619 888 filed Sep. 14 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING ACCESSING AND UPDATING GEOFEEDS both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Co pending applications filed concurrently herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 788 760 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING AND MANAGING GEOFEEDS and co pending application filed concurrently herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 788 909 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TARGETED MESSAGING WORKFLOW MANAGEMENT AND DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT FOR GEOFEEDS are all incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 708 516 filed Dec. 7 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR LOCATION MONITORING BASED ON ORGANIZED GEOFEEDS co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 708 404 issued on Jul. 9 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 484 224 filed Dec. 7 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RANKING GEOFEEDS AND CONTENT WITHIN GEOFEEDS and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 708 466 filed Dec. 7 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING AND MANAGING GEO FEED BASED ALERTS are all incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

For example geofeed creation module may be configured to receive a request to create a geofeed. The request to create the geofeed may include a specification of one or more geo locations and one or more geofeed parameters such as for example providers to include or exclude types of content to include or exclude date ranges content matching patterns keywords and or other parameters that instruct the system as to which content should be included in the geofeed.

In some embodiments geofeed creation module may be configured to generate a geofeed based on the geo location specification and or geofeed parameters. Geofeed creation module may request or otherwise crawl content that may be relevant to the geo location from content providers . Typically although not necessarily geofeed creation module may request and receive the content via various Application Programming Interfaces APIs illustrated in as API A API B . . . API C exposed by content providers . In other instances geofeed creation module may simply request and or receive content from content providers without using an API such as by crawling a website of the provider or otherwise requesting content without an API. Data input to and output from a content provider hereinafter will be described with respect to an API for convenience although processing may be similarly applied to interfacing with a content provider without using an API.

In some embodiments the geo location specification may include one or more geo location inputs. For example geofeed creation module may be configured to receive a geo location input that specifies the geo location via content consumer device using an interface exposed by computer . The interface may include a map interface and or other interface that receives a boundary of the geo location. The map interface may include a map input that allows the content consumer or other user to designate an outline on the map zoom in or out of the map and or pan the map to specify the geo location. Other interfaces may include a text input that allows the user to input e.g. type a geo coordinate e.g. latitude longitude altitude depth an address a school a place name a point of interest e.g. White House a zip code a city a state a country and or other information that can specify a geo location. In some embodiments the geo location may be calculated based on a current location of a device such as content consumer device . In some embodiments the geo location may be obtained from a third party location provider. In these embodiments for example a location input may include a point of interest and the third party location provider may return one or more coordinates or other location information related to the point of interest. The location information from the third party location provider may be formatted as described herein.

Geo location processing module may be configured to obtain the geo location input and or normalize the geo location input into a format that is compatible with computer and or different content providers . The geo location input may be received via one or more user interfaces from an automated process e.g. a computer process and or other input source.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input into an intermediate format that may be recognized by and or be compatible with computer . The intermediate format may then be converted to a format that is compatible with different content providers and or their corresponding provider APIs . In some embodiments the geo location input may be directly normalized into a format that is compatible with different content providers and or their corresponding provider APIs without initially normalizing the geo location input into the intermediate format.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may be configured to format the geo location input specific for different provider APIs illustrated in as API A B C . The provider APIs may facilitate receiving content from corresponding content providers illustrated in as content providers A B C . In some embodiments geo location processing module may format the geo location input directly for content provider N without using a corresponding API. For example the various content providers may accept different geo location input formats. In this example content provider A may receive a geo location input in a point e.g. latitude and longitude geo coordinates and radius input format while another provider B may receive a plurality of geo coordinates indicating a boundary of a non circular shape e.g. rectangle as an input to retrieve content. Yet another provider C may receive a zip code a city a state a country and or other input formats. As such the geo location input initially received by geofeed creation module may not be compatible with the geo location input format that may be acceptable by a particular content provider from which the content is to be requested. As such geo location processing module may format the geo location input to be compatible with a corresponding provider API .

In some embodiments geo location processing module may be configured to use a provider profile associated with each provider A C in order to format the geo location input so that the geo location input is compatible with each API. Provider profiles may be stored in a provider profile database . The provider profiles may include information related to a content provider such as for example a geo location input format acceptable by the content provider and or rules and or other intelligence used to format geo location inputs to be compatible with different content providers.

Geo location processing module may be configured to obtain a geo location input based on a map input a text input and or other inputs. Map inputs may include a specification of a geographical area bounded by a circle polygon visible area of a map interface and or other shape input e.g. drawn using the map interface. Text inputs may include a geo coordinate e.g. latitude longitude altitude depth an address a school a place name a point of interest e.g. White House a zip code a city a state a country and or other information that can spatially identify a geographical area.

In some embodiments a user may specify a map input using the map interface exposed by computer . Geo location processing module may obtain a specification of a geographical area bounded by the map input as a geo location input. For example content provider A may require a point and radius input format. If the map input is a circle geo location processing module may determine the point and radius of the circle and request content from content provider A based on the point and radius. In this case the content received from content provider A may be coextensive with the geographical area defined by the circle without being over inclusive or under inclusive because the map input is compatible with the input format of the content provider. In other words geo coordinates associated with individual items of the received content may all be located within the circle.

On the other hand if the map input is not compatible with the input format of the content provider such as point and radius input geo location processing module may normalize the map input to be compatible with the input format of the content provider. For example when the original geo location input includes a polygon geo location processing module may normalize the polygon by generating a circle that corresponds to the polygon. In this manner a point and radius of the circle may be obtained in order to request content from content provider A based on the point and radius input requirement of the content provider. As would be appreciated the geo coordinates corresponding to portions of the circle may be mapped to the geo coordinates corresponding to the polygon input using conventional coordinate transformation techniques.

In some embodiments in order to determine a circle that covers the area specified by the polygon geo location processing module may identify a centroid and a plurality of corners of the polygon and or measure the distance between the centroid and individual ones of the plurality of corners. Geo location processing module may determine the formatted geo location input based on the centroid as a center of the circle and the longest distance as a radius of the circle.

The formatting may cause artifacts such as over inclusive and or under inclusive results. For example if the formatted geo location input represented by the circle is made larger than the polygon covering the entire area of the polygon the content received from content provider A may be over inclusive such that it includes extraneous content whose associated geo coordinates are located within the formatted geo location input e.g. circle but outside of the map input e.g. polygon . On the other hand if the formatted geo location input represented by the circle is smaller than the polygon the received content based on the formatted geo location e.g. circle may be under inclusive where it may not include content whose locations are just outside of the circle but still within the polygon. In these instances the geo location correction module described herein may compensate for such artifacts.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may divide the map input into a plurality of segments using various segmentation techniques. In some embodiments the plurality of segments may be individually normalized. The plurality of formatted geo location inputs for the segments may be aggregated into a single input which may be communicated to a corresponding content provider and or be separately input to the corresponding content provider.

Continuing the foregoing non limiting example where content provider A accepts a point and radius input format geo location processing module may divide the geographically area defined by a polygon into multiple segments. Individual segments may be normalized such as by creating one or more circles corresponding to individual segments. Various ways to normalize a non circular map input such as a polygon into a circle discussed herein may similarly apply to the process of normalizing a non circular segment of the polygon into a circle and or other shapes received as input by content providers. Once a plurality of circles corresponding to the polygon is determined geo location processing module may request content from content provider A based on the point and radius information associated with the plurality of circles.

In some embodiments content provider B may require a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area as an input format. In these embodiments geo location processing module may normalize the map input into a zip code of that at least partially corresponds with a geographic area specified by the map input. The geographical area of the zip code may be larger than e.g. over inclusive and or smaller than e.g. under inclusive the area bounded by the map input. If a geographic area of the zip code is larger than the map input the content received from content provider B based on the formatted geo location input e.g. zip code may include extraneous content whose associated locations are outside of the map input but within the formatted map input. If a geographic area of the zip code is smaller than the area bounded by the map input the received content based on the zip code may not include therefore under inclusive content whose locations are just outside of the zip code but still within the map input.

In some embodiments the geographic area bounded by a map input may overlap with more than one zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . In this case geo location processing module may identify a plurality of zip codes that cover and or is related to the geographical area bounded by the particular map input and request content from content provider B based on the plurality of zip codes.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may receive a geo location input specifying a dimension e.g. length width area etc. that is larger than a maximum input area dimension allowable for a given content provider . For example the geo location input may specify a 50 km wide location in which to search whereas a particular content provider may require a location input that specifies an area no greater than a 5 km wide location input. Still another content provider may require a location input that specifies an area no greater than a 10 km wide location input. As described herein different content providers may further require different types of inputs e.g. center radius bounded box etc. .

In these embodiments geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input e.g. the 50 km wide location for individual content providers and may determine the number of requests to be made based on particular requirements of the different content providers from which content is obtained. For example geo location processing module may be configured to determine a minimum number of requests to be made to a content provider based on the maximum location size that the content provider receives. In the foregoing example geo location processing module may generate a first plurality of segments individually spanning 5 km for a first content provider and a second plurality of segments individually spanning 10 km for a second content provider . For each content provider geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input as well such as by using a point and radius for the first content provider and a bounded box for the second content provider. The requirements for normalization may be stored in a content provider profile as described herein and or co pending applications.

Returning to the example for input to individual content providers geo location processing module may layout the plurality of segments in a manner that minimizes overlap and maximizes coverage of the geo location input. In some embodiments conventional best fit techniques may be used to layout the plurality of segments. In some embodiments for example geo location processing module may layout the plurality of 5 km wide location input segments for the first content provider and layout the plurality of 10 km wide location input segments for the second content provider in a manner that minimizes overlap and maximizes coverage of the geo location input. In a particular example geo location processing module may position a segment at a first position and position subsequent segments until a boundary of the geo location input is reached. Geo location processing module may continue this process in each direction as appropriate depending on the size and or shape of the geo location specified by the geo location input. The size and or shape of each segment may depend on the type of input e.g. point and radius bounded box etc. accepted by the content provider for geo location input.

In some embodiments a user may specify a text input using a text interface and or other interfaces exposed by computer . For example geo location processing module may normalize the text input such as a geo coordinate an address a school a place name a point of interest etc. into a point that defines a geographic center of the text input and determine a radius about the center to approximate the geographic region of the text input. Geo location processing module may convert the text input into geo coordinates to determine the geographic center of a geographic area defined by the text input. In some embodiments geo location processing module may access geo location database to obtain and or retrieve geo coordinates that are associated with a particular address name of a place a point of interest etc. Geo location processing module may request content from content provider A which may require a point and radius input format based on the determined point and radius. The radius may also be predetermined by computer by individual content providers and or by user input.

In another example geo location processing module may normalize the text input into a zip code neighborhood city etc. to which the geo location related to the text input belongs in order to request content from content provider B which may require such an input format.

In some embodiments the text inputs may be translated into map inputs which may then be used to request content from content providers. For example geo location processing module may obtain a zip code as a text input. Using a map interface exposed by computer geo location processing module may identify a geographical area bounded by a map input such as a polygon that represents the area covered by the zip code. In another example a text input such as White House may be converted to a map input such as a polygon indicating an area surrounding the White House.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may be configured to store the geo location specification defined by a geo location input and or other information related to the request to create a geofeed as a geofeed definition in a geofeed database . The geofeed definition may include information that allows geofeed creation module and or other components of the system to generate a geofeed that was previously requested using the geo location specification and or other information related to the geofeed. In this manner a content consumer or other user need not re enter the geo location input in order to view the geofeed defined by the geofeed definition.

In some embodiments geo location processing module may access a geo location database illustrated in as Geo Loc DB which may be located locally and or remotely at a 3party site to obtain geographic information related to the text input. For example geo location processing module may retrieve a predefined polygon associated with a particular point of interest such as the White House and or convert the text input to a map input based on the predefined polygon.

In some embodiments geo location inputs obtained by geo location processing module may be stored in and or retrieved from a user profile database . For example a user profile may include information related to a user e.g. a content consumer such as for example prior geo location specifications.

In some embodiments when content is received from one or more of the various content providers the system may store the content as allowed by law or terms of service and or links to the content in a manner that associates the content and or links with a standard location format. In this manner once the geo location input has been normalized for input to the content providers and the content has been received subsequent searches on the stored content and or links may use the standard location format used by the system. The standard location format may be based on a point and radius bounded box and or other geo location specifying format.

Geo location correction module may be configured to determine whether the received content is over inclusive and or under inclusive based on the original geo location input. For example geo location correction module may determine a location associated with individual content and determine whether the location is within the original geo location input.

When the received content includes excess content such as content that is within a geographic area defined by the formatted geo location input but outside of a geographic area defined by the original geo location input geo location correction module may remove the extraneous content. For example geo location correction module may identify an item of the content to be removed by comparing geo coordinates of that content item with geo coordinates associated with the original geo location input e.g. geo coordinates associated with various points along the perimeter of the geographic area bounded by the geo location input . In this manner even if a particular content provider provides only an input mechanism that broadly defines a geo location such as a zip code geo location correction module may be used to fine tune the content received from the content provider.

In some embodiments the extraneous content that have been removed by geo location correction module may be tracked stored in a database such as geofeed database and or communicated to the user. In this manner the content consumer may be informed of the content items that were removed and may be available to access if the geo location input is enlarged .

When the received content is under inclusive geo location correction module may identify additional content items that are located inside of the original geo location input and or add those items to the geofeed.

Communication module may be configured to communicate one or more geofeeds generated by geofeed creation module . In some embodiments the communication module may communicate formatting results correction results and or other information related to processing location inputs.

User interface module may be configured to generate a user interface that communicates and or displays one or more geofeeds. The user interface may include a web page an application executing on a mobile device or other interface that can receive inputs and or communicate outputs. For example content consumer device may display a user interface provided by user interface module which a content consumer may use to request a geofeed.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that computer and content consumer device may each comprise one or more processors one or more interfaces to various peripheral devices or components memory one or more storage devices and or other components coupled via a bus. The memory may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other memory. The memory may store computer executable instructions to be executed by the processor as well as data that may be manipulated by the processor. The storage devices may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage devices for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

One or more applications including various modules may be loaded into memory and run on an operating system of computer and or consumer device . In one implementation computer and consumer device may each comprise a server device a desktop computer a laptop a cell phone a smart phone a Personal Digital Assistant a pocket PC or other device.

Network may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a wireless network a cellular communications network a Public Switched Telephone Network and or other network.

In some embodiments geofeed creation module may receive the request and communicates the geo location input of the request to geo location processing module to process the geo location input.

Geo location processing module may obtain the geo location input and or normalize the geolocation input into a format that is compatible with different content providers . For example the request may include a geo location input that is an address while content provider A may take as input a point and radius location for defining a geo location and content provider B may take as input a zip code for defining the geo location. As such geo location processing module may format the geo location input so that it conforms to a corresponding provider .

Geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input from the request to be compatible with API A and API . For example geo location processing module may normalize the address into a point that defines a geographic center of the address and determine a radius about the center to approximate the geographic region of the address in order to request content from provider A using API A. On the other hand geo location processing module may normalize the address into a zip code of which the address is a part in order to request content from provider B using API B.

In some embodiments a content provider may not expose an API. In these embodiments geo location processing module may normalize the geo location input to be compatible with provider N. For example geo location processing module may request content from provider N directly by crawling a website of provider N executing search queries on a search module of provider N and or using other techniques to access content from provider N.

Geo location processing module may store the geo location specification defined by a geo location input and or other information related to the request to create a geofeed as a geofeed definition in a geofeed database .

Geo location processing module may obtain various profiles such as a user profile and or a provider profile . The provider profile may include information related to a content provider such as for example a geo location input format acceptable by the content provider and or rules and or other intelligence used to format geo location inputs to be compatible with different content providers. The user profile may include information related to a content consumer such as for example prior geo location specifications.

In some instances the content from providers may be over inclusive or under inclusive because of the normalization process e.g. a zip code may return more results than a particular address . Geo location correction module may adjust the over inclusive or under inclusive content using various techniques discussed herein with respect to .

Geofeed creation module may aggregate the received content which may or may not be adjusted by geo location correction module and generate a geofeed based on the aggregated content. The geofeed may be communicated to the content consumer via the user interface communicated via user interface module and or other communication channel. Examples of various user interfaces are described with respect to .

In an operation process may include obtaining a geo location input which may be a map input and or a text input. In an operation process may include normalizing the geo location input into a format that is compatible with the next provider from which content is received. In an operation process may include communicating the formatted geo location input to the next provider. In an operation process may include receiving the content requested based on the formatted geo location input from the provider.

In an operation process may include determining whether the received content is over inclusive such that it contains excess content whose associated locations are within the area specified by the formatted geo location input but outside of the area specified by the original geo location. If the received content is over inclusive process may include removing the excess content from the received content in an operation . On the other hand if the received content is not over inclusive process may include determining whether the received content is under inclusive such that there may be additional content that are located just outside of the area specified by the formatted geo location input but still within the area specified by the original geo location input in an operation . If the received content is under inclusive process may include adding the additional content to the received content in an operation . On the other hand if the received content is not under inclusive process may include determining whether more providers are to be queried for content. If more providers remain process may return to operation where the geo location input is normalized for the next provider. If no more providers remain in an operation process may include generating the geofeed.

Interface and other interfaces described herein may be implemented as a web page communicated from computer to a client an application such as a mobile application executing on the client that generates the interface based on information communicated from computer and or other interface. Whichever type of interface is used computer may communicate the data and or formatting instructions related to the interface to the client causing the client to generate the various interfaces of and other drawing figures. Furthermore computer may receive data from the client via the various interfaces as would be appreciated.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon indicates a boundary of a geo location for a geofeed. Other polygons and or other shapes not illustrated may indicate other boundaries of other geo locations for the geofeed. Polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be compatible with a particular content provider which may as illustrated take as input a point and radius input. During the normalization and or formatting process a centroid of polygon and corners A I of polygon may be identified. Based on centroid and corner A having the longest distance illustrated by a dotted line from centroid the formatted geo location input may be formed and or used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on centroid and distance may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by polygon . Such excess content such as a content item may be located in the shaded area of a circle . Content item may be removed from the received content whereas content such as a content item that are within polygon may be added to the geofeed.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a user may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. Polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider such as a point and radius input. During the normalization and or formatting process polygon may be divided into a plurality of segments where individual segments may be separately normalized into a point and radius format. In this example polygon has been divided into 6 different segments. As illustrated circles A and B may be formed around corresponding segments. Content may be requested from the content provider based on the point and radius information determined by the circles formed around the segments such as a center a radius a center and a radius .

The content received from the content provider based on the point and radius information may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by polygon . Such excess content such as a content item may be located in the shaded area of the circles. Content item may be removed from the received content whereas content such as a content item that are within polygon may be added to the geofeed.

In some embodiments a region in which two or more circles overlap may include duplicate content. For example if a content item was received from the content provider based on center and radius and a duplicate content item was also received based on center and radius the duplicate content item may be removed disregarded ignored indicated as excess content and or otherwise may not be added to the geofeed.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a user may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider such as a point and radius input. During the normalization and or formatting process a centroid of polygon and corners may be identified. Based on centroid and a radius illustrated by a dotted line the formatted geo location input may be formed and or used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on centroid and radius may be under inclusive such that there may be additional content such as a content item that is located just outside of the area specified by a circle but still within the area specified by polygon . Such additional content such as content item may be added to the received content including a content item for example.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider. The input format that is acceptable in this example may be a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . During the normalization and or formatting process a zip code as illustrated as a rectangle but it may also be shaped as a circle polygon or any other non circular shapes to which the area specified by polygon belongs may be identified. Based on the zip code shaped as rectangle the formatted geo location may be formed and or used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on the zip code shaped as rectangle may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by polygon . Such excess content such as a content item may be located in the shaded area of rectangle . Content item may be removed from the received content whereas content such as a content item that is within polygon may be added to the geofeed.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider. The input format that is acceptable in this example may be a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . During the normalization and or formatting process a zip code as illustrated as a rectangle but it may also be shaped as a circle polygon or any other non circular shapes of which the area specified by polygon is a part may be identified. Based on the zip code shaped as rectangle the formatted geo location may be formed and or used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on the zip code shaped as rectangle may be under inclusive such that there may be additional content such as a content item that is located just outside of the area specified by rectangle but still within the area specified by polygon . Such additional content such as content item may be added to the received content including a content item for example.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a polygon via interface . As illustrated polygon is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as polygon may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider. The input format that is acceptable in this example may be a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . If the geographical area bounded by polygon overlaps with more than one zip code as illustrated by zip codes and the geo location input shaped as polygon may be normalized into zip codes and which may be used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on zip codes and may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by polygon . Such excess content such as content items A and B may be located in the shaded area of zip codes and . Content items A and B may be removed from the received content whereas content such as content items A and B that are within polygon may be added to the geofeed.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a circle via interface . As illustrated circle is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as circle may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider. The input format that is acceptable in this example may be a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . During the normalization and or formatting process a zip code as illustrated as a rectangle but it may also be shaped as a circle polygon or any other non circular shapes to which the area specified by circle belongs may be identified. Based on the zip code shaped as rectangle the formatted geo location may be formed and or used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on the zip code shaped as rectangle may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by circle . Such excess content such as a content item may be located in the shaded area of rectangle . Content item may be removed from the received content whereas content such as a content item that is within circle may be added to the geofeed.

Referring to interface may provide a geofeed that may be generated based on a geo location input and a formatted geo location input that has been created by normalizing the geo location input. For example a content consumer may specify locations of interest by drawing a circle via interface . As illustrated circle is displayed that indicates a boundary of a geofeed. The geo location input shaped as circle may be normalized into an input format that may be acceptable for a particular content provider. The input format that is acceptable in this example may be a zip code and or neighborhood city state etc. and or any other non circular shaped geographical area . If the geographical area bounded by circle overlaps with more than one zip code as illustrated by zip codes and the geo location input shaped as circle may be normalized into zip codes and which may be used to request content from the content provider.

The content received from the content provider based on zip codes and may include excess content that is outside of the area represented by circle . Such excess content such as content items A and B may be located in the shaded area of zip codes and . Content items A and B may be removed from the received content whereas content such as content items A and B that are within circle may be added to the geofeed.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

