---

title: Address exchange system and methods
abstract: The present disclosure provides systems and methods for an address exchange system including a controller configured to provide an API configured to receive an identifier from a user and further configured not to receive a physical address from the user, wherein the user provides an item for shipment to the physical address. In response to receiving the identifier, the controller is further adapted to request the physical address from a data storage system wherein the data storage system stores an association between the identifier and the physical address and further stores one or more permission settings defining situations in which the physical address is to be provided in response to receipt of the identifier. In response to receipt of the identifier, the data storage system tests the permission settings to determine whether or not to provide the associated physical address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009859&OS=09009859&RS=09009859
owner: MapMyId, Inc.
number: 09009859
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130831
---
This application incorporates by reference and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 697 824 filed on Sep. 7 2012.

The present subject matter relates generally to systems and methods for an online identification to a physical address exchange platform.

In today s society people are identified by a plethora of identifiers including their name social security number bank account number residential address password birth date and email address among others. Because many identifiers are confidential information most people prefer to keep their information private. However individuals are continually asked to share their identifiers with third parties for example by providing a mailing address to a third party or by providing a billing address when purchasing an item online. However it may be unsafe to share identifiers such as a physical address with unknown individuals. Moreover the more confidential information an individual discloses the more likely the person will be subjected to privacy challenges.

During a typical transaction a sender selects an item from a retailer s website to send to a receiver. During checkout the sender must input his or her name the billing address of the buyer gift options the name of the receiver the address of the receiver and the phone number of the receiver. Based on the large amount of required information many senders decide not to complete the purchase owing to either not having the time to complete the checkout process or because the sender may not have all of the receiver s personal information. For example the sender may not have the physical address of the recipient and perhaps does not feel comfortable asking for such personal information from the receiver. In addition physical addresses change often such that it is difficult for senders to track the changes in address in order to determine the most current address to use as the mailing address.

From a recipient s perspective providing his or her residential address is not safe. In addition updating a change of address is often a time consuming and laborious process. Typically a recipient must update their address information in each organization. For example a recipient must update their address with the post office department of motor vehicle internal revenue service energy company magazine subscriptions place of employment among a multitude of others.

In addition conventional systems do not take into account the recipient s preference in shipping location. For example a recipient may want certain packages sent from friends to be mailed to his or her home address where as the recipient may want to gifts from colleagues to be mailed to his or her work address.

Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods directed to an address system that does not jeopardize an individual s privacy information while taking into account a recipient s preferences.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for an address exchange platform. Various examples of the systems and methods are provided herein.

The present address exchange system is a technology platform that manages and provides confidential information such as a residential address to third party merchants retailers and shipping companies. The present system provides various integration points with third party companies such as retailers merchants shipping companies government agencies financial institutions or any other organization that collects and uses an address of its members. In one example the address exchange system receives an email address of an intended recipient from a sender and provides a physical address of a receiver based on the submitted email address of the receiver. In other words the system allows senders to send packages and gifts to receivers based only on the sender providing a receiver s identification such as the receiver s email address or phone number thereby maintaining the confidential nature of a physical address.

In an embodiment the address exchange system comprises a memory coupled to the controller wherein the memory is configured to store program instructions executable by the controller. In response to executing the program instructions the controller is configured to provide an API configured to receive an identifier from a user and further configured not to receive a physical address from the user wherein the user provides an item for shipment to the physical address.

In response to receiving the identifier the controller is further adapted to request the physical address from a data storage system wherein the data storage system stores an association between the identifier and the physical address and further stores one or more permission settings defining situations in which the physical address is to be provided in response to receipt of the identifier. In response to receipt of the identifier the data storage system tests the permission settings to determine whether or not to provide the associated physical address.

The determination as to whether or not to provide the associated physical address may further include verifying a password associated with the physical address wherein the data storage system further stores a password linked to the associated identifier and physical address.

The permission settings may include one or more domains to which the physical address may be provided when the identifier is received from the one or more domains. Alternatively or in addition to the permission settings may include a setting requiring the data storage system to request and receive approval to provide the associated physical address via a direct communication made according to a predefined communication protocol.

The predefined communication protocol may be an email message an SMS message a phone call a mobile application communication or combinations thereof.

In an example the user interface may be provided within an ecommerce platform and or an online shipping platform.

In another embodiment the address exchange system comprises a memory coupled to the controller wherein the memory is configured to store program instructions executable by the controller. In response to executing the program instructions the controller is configured to provide a data storage system storing an association between an identifier and a physical address and further storing one or more permission settings defining situations in which the physical address is to be provided in response to receipt of the identifier. The controller is further configured to receive a request to provide the physical address wherein the request includes the identifier. In response to receiving a request to provide the physical address the data storage system tests the permission settings to determine whether or not to provide the associated physical address.

The request to provide the physical address may be received from an API wherein the API is configured to receive an identifier from the user and further configured not to receive the physical address from the user. The request to provide the physical address may further include a password.

The determination as to whether or not to provide the associated physical address may further include verifying the password wherein the data storage system further stores a password linked to the associated identifier and physical address.

The permission settings may include one or more domains to which the physical address may be provided when the request to provide the physical address is received from the one or more domains. The permission settings may include a setting requiring the data storage system to request and receive approval to provide the associated physical address via a direct communication made according to a predefined communication protocol.

The predefined communication protocol may be an email message an SMS message a phone call a mobile application communication or combinations thereof.

An advantage of the present systems and methods is providing a solution to the challenge of sending gifts or packages without knowing the recipient s address. Similarly the system does not require a recipient to disclose his or her residential address to third parties or strangers.

A further advantage of the present systems and methods is providing a safe and secure way of mapping online and offline identifications wherein the identifications may be used in various applications.

Yet another advantage of the present systems and methods is allowing merchants to focus on their core business instead of spending time and money directed to determining a correct address for shipments and tracking lost packages.

Another advantage of the present systems and methods is providing a single platform to map online and offline identifications thereby avoiding multiple registrations with each merchant of users physical mailing address.

A further advantage of the present systems and methods is providing more efficient commerce and shipping solutions including ecommerce solutions.

Another advantage of the present system is enabling retailers to complete more transactions and focus on their primary business instead of spending time and resources devoted to obtaining and tracking physical addresses.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the examples will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following description and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The objects and advantages of the concepts may be realized and attained by means of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The present disclosure provides an address exchange system comprising a memory coupled to the controller wherein the memory is configured to store program instructions executable by the controller as shown in . In response to executing the program instructions the controller is configured to provide an API configured to receive an identifier from a user and further configured not to receive a physical address from the user wherein the user provides an item for shipment to the physical address . The user may be any person or entity. In the majority of examples in the present application the user is a retailer merchant or shipping entity. For example in the user is a retailer or shipping entity. However the user is not limited to retailers and shipping entities but includes any organization entity or person that uses a unique identifier to provide a physical mailing address.

Although throughout this disclosure the receiver is identified by the identifier of an email address it should be understood that any suitable identifier may be used. For example identifier may be a telephone number associated with the intended receiver wherein the telephone number is associated with the physical address . Similarly the identifier may be a social network identification of the receiver wherein the social network identification is associated with the physical address of the receiver . In other words the controller may be configured to receive any identifier of the receiver that is associated with the receiver s physical address including but not limited to an email address social network identification phone number or any other unique identifier or combinations thereof.

In one example a sender selects an item for shipment to a physical address through a checkout interface that is in communication with the user . The checkout interface and or the API may be provided within an ecommerce platform or product as well as an online shipping platform. For example the sender may provide the identifier associated with the intended receiver of the item to the checkout interface . The user may then provide the email address to the controller via the API .

In addition to providing the identifier of the receiver to the controller the user may also provide information associated with the sender . For example the user may provide identification of the sender and transaction details associated with the item being purchased and or shipped. The identification of the sender may include a name email address telephone number address social network identification or any other suitable identification of the sender . The transaction details may include the retailer or store the item is purchased or shipped the content of the item being shipped the time frame of the shipping dates among other information. In other words the controller may be configured to provide an API configured to receive an identifier associated with the receiver an identification associated with the sender and transaction details associated with the item and further configured not to receive a physical address from the user wherein the sender provides an item for shipment to the physical address .

In response to receiving the identifier the controller is further adapted to request the physical address from a data storage system wherein the data storage system stores an association between the identifier and the physical address . The data storage system may be any suitable storage system for example a database.

The data storage system further stores one or more permission settings defining situations in which the physical address is to be provided in response to receipt of the identifier . The permission settings may include one or more domains to which the physical address may be provided when the identifier is received from the one or more domains. For example the permission settings may be set such that if the identifier is received from a certain user such as a specific person or website associated with a certain retailer then the controller is authorized to provide the physical address to that specific person or retailer. The permission settings may include providing the identification of the sender and transaction details associated with the item being received.

Alternatively or in addition to the permission settings may include a setting requiring the data storage system to request and receive approval to provide the associated physical address via a direct communication made according to a predefined communication protocol . For example the approval may be dependent on the identification of the sender as well as the transaction details. In other words the permission settings may include granting permission if the request is from a certain sender . However the permission settings may include denying permission to receive the item if the transaction details indicate the item is flowers for example if the receiver has allergies.

The predefined communication protocol may be an email message an SMS message a phone call a mobile application communication such as a mobile app to app communication or combinations thereof. For example the permission settings may be set such that the controller is configured to send an email to a person or entity e.g. receiver associated with the physical address requesting permission to provide the physical address to the user for example a merchant or shipping company. Further the permission settings may be customized by the receiver via an API to manage the privacy and settings for the receiver and sender wherein the API is in communication with the controller as shown in .

In response to receipt of the identifier the data storage system tests the permission settings to determine whether or not to provide the associated physical address . For example if the permission settings include sending an SMS message then the controller sends an SMS message requesting authority to provide the physical address to the user . If authority is granted then the controller provides the physical address to the user . As understood by one skilled in the art the identifier and or the physical address may be encrypted when sent and decrypted when received.

The permission settings may be set such that the controller is configured to receive and verify a password in order to provide the physical address to the user . Further the determination as to whether or not to provide the associated physical address may further include verifying the password wherein the data storage system further stores the password linked to the associated email address and physical address . In other words in addition to requesting authority from a person or entity associated with the physical address the controller may be configured to request and confirm a password associated with the physical address before authority is received or denied.

Although throughout the description the example of the controller receiving an identifier from the user and providing an associated physical address to the user is used it should be understood that other methods of providing the physical address are contemplated within this disclosure. For example upon receiving an identifier and obtaining the associated physical address from the data storage system the physical address may be provided to the user in text form or as a code such as bar code or QR code or any other encrypted manner. When user is a retailer for example the physical address is provided to the user in the form of a shipping label including a bar code or QR code the physical address remains confidential and may not be disclosed to the user .

As shown in a sender provides an email address of the intended receiver to the user e.g. retailer shipping entity . The user then sends the email address to the controller via the API . The controller sends an email or other communication protocol not shown to the receiver requesting permission to send the physical address to the user . If the receiver grants the request the controller accesses the data storage system and obtains the physical address that corresponds to the email address and provides the physical address to the user e.g. retailer shipping entity . Importantly the physical address is not provided to the sender . Instead the physical address remains confidential and only sent to the user such as a retailer or shipping entity for shipping purposes.

In one example a sender provides to the user three pieces of information an email address of the intended receiver an identification of the sender and transaction details surrounding the item selected by the sender . The user then provides the identification of the sender and the transaction details to the receiver for permission to provide the user with the physical address associated with the receiver .

In addition the user is separate and distinct from the address exchange system . In other words one of the main purposes of the address exchange system is to confidentially supply physical addresses to users such as merchants and shipping companies. The address exchange system is not included within a retailer or shipping company. In other words the address exchange system is an independent entity from the user .

In one example if a sender selects an item for shipment to a physical address wherein the identifier is not contained in the data storage system the controller may be configured to send an email or other communication to the person or entity associated with the identifier requesting not only permission to provide the physical address but the content of the physical address . Further the controller may be configured to send an email to the person or entity associated with the identifier requesting authority to store an email address and associated physical address in the data storage system .

For example in the sender sends an email address of the receiver to the user e.g. retailer shipping company via the checkout interface wherein the user sends the email address to the controller . The controller may determine the email address is not included in the data storage system at which point the controller may send an email invitation to the email address requesting permission to store the email address and an associated physical address in the data storage system . If the receiver registered the email address and physical address in the data storage system the controller provides the physical address to the user .

In addition depicts a situation in which upon receipt of an email address not contained in the data storage system the controller is configured to request a zip code from the receiver along with an invitation to register the receiver s email address and physical address in the data storage system . Once authorization and the zip code is received from the receiver the zip code may be used to estimate and provide a maximum shipping charge to the sender . If the user receives confirmation from the sender to proceed with the shipment based on the estimated charge the transaction may be completed. Subsequently the receiver may provide the physical address and complete registration. Once the physical address is received the controller may then provide an exact shipping cost and sales tax to the user . The user may then reimburse the sender for any overage charges in the shipping and tax costs. If the email address that is contained in the data storage system is received by the controller the address exchange system may immediately calculate the shipping costs and sales tax for the sender to confirm before completing the purchase.

In another example upon receipt of an email address the controller is configured to request a zip code from the receiver . If the receiver is not registered the controller indicates to the user that the zip code is not available. The user then calculates the maximum shipping cost and maximum sales tax to complete the transaction. After the transaction is complete the controller is configured to request registration from the receiver wherein registration includes submitting a physical address associated with the email address of the receiver to be stored in the data storage system . Upon registration the controller is configured to supply the user with the physical address of the receiver such that the user may calculate the exact sales tax and shipping cost wherein the sales tax and shipping costs are based on the zip code of the receiver . The user may then reimburse the sender for any overcharged amount from the initial charged amount based on the maximum shipping and sales tax costs. Alternatively if the receiver is registered i.e. the email address is included in the data storage system the controller may immediately send the zip code of the receiver to the user in order for the user to calculate the sales tax and shipping costs which will be presented to the sender . The sender may then decide to submit the purchase of the item to be sent to the receiver .

In another embodiment the address exchange system comprises a memory coupled to the controller wherein the memory is configured to store program instructions executable by the controller . In response to executing the program instructions the controller is configured to provide a data storage system for storing an association between an identifier and a physical address and further storing one or more permission settings defining situations in which the physical address is to be provided in response to receipt of the identifier . The controller is further configured to receive a request to provide the physical address wherein the request includes the identifier . In response to receiving a request to provide the physical address the data storage system tests the permission settings to determine whether or not to provide the associated physical address .

The request to provide the physical address may be received from an API through which a user selects an item for shipment to a physical address wherein the API is configured to receive an identifier from the user and further configured not to receive the physical address from the user . As described above the request to provide the physical address may further include a password .

As shown in the address exchange system may include various modules including recommendation services advertisement services address book services social media services sample management services alert services and permission and privacy settings . Based on a sender s previous purchases or preferences the recommendation services may suggest the user to promote certain products to the sender . For example if a sender has indicated in his preferences that he is interested in fishing the recommendation service may suggest with the sender s permission to the user to market fishing products to the sender .

Similarly the advertisement services may provide tailored advertisements to a sender based on the sender s previous purchases or the sender s saved preferences. The address exchange system may also include a sample management service that allows senders and receivers to provide authority to certain retailers to send themselves samples of the retailer s products by simply inputting their email address into a designated input in the preference section. In some instances a user may indicate to the address exchange system that the user needs to distribute a number of samples to appropriate receivers . The controller may be configured to then select appropriate receivers based on the receiver s preferences and provide the physical address of all of the appropriate receivers to the user for shipment of the samples.

The address exchange system may further include an address book service that allows senders to manage their contacts by adding removing updating and deleting their contact list via a user interface or an API in communication with the controller as shown in . When a sender is ready to checkout online from the user the sender may select an option wherein user may collect information about the sender from the address book of the sender such that the sender does not need to provide information about himself or herself. The sender may also provide one or more receivers from the user s address book wherein the address book lists contacts and associated email addresses . For example the checkout interface may display an option requesting access to the sender s address book. The sender may also classify the contacts in predefined groups and may have associated shipping preferences. For example the group Family Friends may be associated with a shipping preference that indicates the controller to provide the receiver s home address whereas the group Colleagues may have a shipping preference that indicates to the controller to provide the receiver s work address. Further the address book service may be in communication with a social media service . For example a sender may import his contacts from a social networking site into the address book service of the address exchange system .

As discussed above the address exchange system may include a privacy and permission setting module that allows receivers to program preferred privacy and permission settings. The preferred privacy and permission settings may be dependent on each sender or groups such as Family Friends. In addition the address exchange system may include an alert service that sends a sender or a receiver a notification regarding a shipment a notification of relevant products a message regarding an advertisement a social media alert among others.

As mentioned above the address exchange system may also include a recommendation service that stores a sender s life style preferences birthdates wish lists gift receiving behaviors and product reviews. Various third parties such as retailers may use the sender s preference information to provide suitable samples and recommendations of other products through the sample management service and or the advertisement services of the address exchange system . For example the recommendation service may track the received products and services of the receiver and upon permission from the receiver share the behavior information with users such as retailers or merchants. With the behavior information users e.g. retailers and merchants may be capable of providing real time recommendations via the recommendation services advertisements via the advertisement services and or offers via the offer management services all based on the receiver s activity. Similar services may be presented to a sender based on the sender s activities.

The receiver may also manage his or her physical address through a user interface or an API in communication with the controller . For example if the receiver needs to change or add a physical address the receiver may do so by for example logging onto his or her account within the address exchange system . In addition the address exchange system may include an update address service that pushes the receiver s new address to all third party service providers. For example instead of a receiver contacting each third party service provider e.g. financial institution magazine subscriptions utility company internal revenue service etc. the address exchange system automatically contacts and updates the receiver s address with each third party service provider within the receiver s address book.

As mentioned above the check out interface and or the API may be provided within an ecommerce platform and or shipping platform. Further as shown in the sender may provide an email address during check out. For example instead of entering in a shipping address the sender enters the email address of the receiver . The associated physical address is provided by the address exchange system as described above.

The address exchange system may be integrated within a check out system associated with the user by any suitable manner. For example the integration may be through a secured customized API that facilitates data flow between a checkout platform of the user and the address exchange system . Alternatively an external plugin to the checkout module from the address exchange system may be provided. Customized extensions may be created for multiple ecommerce platforms and numerous retailers and merchants. The address exchange system may also be in communication with a payment provider during check out.

As shown the system is in direct communication with the searchable storage structure which in one example may be a database. Of course in other embodiments the system may be in communication with the database through a network. While shown and described as a database it is understood that the database may be any number of databases adapted to support the necessary data management to support the various features and functions of the system described herein. It is further contemplated that a database as understood in the traditional sense may not be a requirement of the system described herein and that any other mechanism or mode of data management may be employed.

In one example the system includes an electronic device such as a portable electronic device embodied in a touchscreen enabled smartphone as the user interface . However it is understood that the teachings provided may be applied to numerous variations of electronic devices with user interfaces including desktop computers remote controls etc. as will be recognized by those skilled in the art based on the teachings herein.

As shown in aspects of the systems described herein are controlled by one or more controllers . The one or more controllers may be adapted run a variety of application programs access and store data including accessing and storing data in associated databases and enable one or more interactions as described herein. Typically the one or more controllers are implemented by one or more programmable data processing devices. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such devices are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

For example the one or more controllers may be a PC based implementation of a central control processing system utilizing a central processing unit CPU memory and an interconnect bus. The CPU may contain a single microcontroller or it may contain a plurality of microprocessors for configuring the CPU as a multi processor system. The memory include a main memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM and cache as well as a read only memory such as a PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM or the like. The system may also include any form of volatile or non volatile memory . In operation the memory stores at least portions of instructions for execution by the CPU and data for processing in accord with the executed instructions.

The one or more controllers may also include one or more input output interfaces for communications with one or more processing systems. Although not shown one or more such interfaces may enable communications via a network e.g. to enable sending and receiving instructions electronically. The communication links may be wired or wireless.

The one or more controllers may further include appropriate input output ports for interconnection with one or more output mechanisms e.g. monitors printers touchscreens motion sensing input devices etc. and one or more input mechanisms e.g. keyboards mice voice touchscreens bioelectric devices magnetic readers RFID readers barcode readers motion sensing input devices etc. serving as one or more user interfaces for the controller . For example the one or more controllers may include a graphics subsystem to drive the output mechanism. The links of the peripherals to the system may be wired connections or use wireless communications.

Although summarized above as a PC type implementation those skilled in the art will recognize that the one or more controllers also encompasses systems such as host computers servers workstations network terminals and the like. Further one or more controllers may be embodied in a device such as a mobile electronic device like a smartphone or tablet computer. In fact the use of the term controller is intended to represent a broad category of components that are well known in the art.

Hence aspects of the systems and methods provided herein encompass hardware and software for controlling the relevant functions. Software may take the form of code or executable instructions for causing a controller or other programmable equipment to perform the relevant steps where the code or instructions are carried by or otherwise embodied in a medium readable by the controller or other machine. Instructions or code for implementing such operations may be in the form of computer instruction in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in or carried by any tangible readable medium.

As used herein terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as the memory of such a computer platform. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a controller can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its attendant advantages. For example various embodiments of the method and portable electronic device may be provided based on various combinations of the features and functions from the subject matter provided herein.

