---

title: Enterprise asset management
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for asset management are disclosed. In one example, a system and method includes receiving an indication of a coupling of an asset to a computing device. An asset identifier stored on the asset is received and an asset data record corresponding to the asset is located. A data associated with the asset is recorded in the asset data record.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524309&OS=09524309&RS=09524309
owner: Plantronics, Inc.
number: 09524309
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130718
---
Enterprises often issue equipment such as electronic devices assets to their employees. For example these assets include devices such as notebook computers smartphones and headsets. Enterprises desire to keep track of these assets for a variety of reasons including the fact that they are costs to the enterprise. In the prior art in order to keep track of these assets asset information is often manually entered into a computer system. This process is time consuming and inconvenient for large numbers of assets. Even where the asset management process is automated in some manner such automation is often limited to tracking very basic information such as that an asset has been received by the enterprise.

Methods and apparatuses for asset management are disclosed. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples and various modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Block diagrams of example systems are illustrated and described for purposes of explanation. The functionality that is described as being performed by a single system component may be performed by multiple components. Similarly a single component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being performed by multiple components. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention. It is to be understood that various example of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Thus a particular feature characteristic or structure described in one example embodiment may be included within other embodiments unless otherwise noted.

In one example one or more non transitory computer readable storage media have computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by one or more computers cause the one more computers to perform operations including detecting coupling of an asset to a computing device. The operations include retrieving an asset identifier stored on the asset determining the asset is a new asset and creating an asset data record corresponding to the asset. The operations include associating the asset with a user identifier in the asset data record and recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record.

In one example one or more non transitory computer readable storage media have computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by one or more computers cause the one more computers to perform operations including receiving an indication of a coupling of an asset to a computing device. The operations include receiving an asset identifier stored on the asset and locating an asset data record corresponding to the asset. The operations further include recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record.

In one example a headset system includes a headset apparatus and a base device. The headset apparatus includes a microphone a speaker a memory comprising a headset identifier and a first wired communications interface. The base device includes a processor a Universal Serial Bus USB interface and a second wired communications interface to operable to removably couple to the first wired communications interface. The base device further includes a memory having an asset management application executable by the processor configured to retrieve the headset identifier when the first wired communications interface is coupled to the second wired communications interface and the asset management application is further configured to transmit the headset identifier to a computing device over the Universal Serial Bus Interface.

Enterprise assets such as headsets are often assigned to individuals and can be mission critical to the job. When a headset is not available it can prevent the person from performing their job and that may result in them taking someone else s headset so they can work. If the headset is not returned the person to whom it was assigned will find themselves in the same situation and will need to get a replacement and the cycle will be perpetuated until a replacement unit is provided from management. Employees may be financially liable for their headsets. In such cases the potential increases that they may switch headsets i.e. take another employee s headset in order to avoid a financial penalty. If the headsets can be traced to a user it makes it possible for management to correctly identify headsets to their assigned users. In one example methods and systems are described which provide for tracking of assets such as headsets to the users they were originally assigned to in order to reduce the risk of loss and enable the enterprise to manage the headsets as assets for financial accounting purposes. In one implementation a memory in the headset and or base is used to hold unique identifier information assigned at the factory that can be read by a software application and made available to a database or third party application for use in an asset management database.

In one embodiment the user is automatically assigned to the headset using their workstation or network login information using a software application programming interface API . In a further example the user s identifier can be manually entered through application software. Advantageously headsets can be assigned to users and tracked. If a headset becomes lost the user whose headset it is could be identified correctly through a process of elimination. In one example implementation any headset that is connected to the system will be able to be queried by an application and traced to where it is located. This enables the enterprise management to manage their assets more accurately and where financial penalties are applied be able to apply it to the correct individual. It will also allow an enterprise to understand how many headsets they have on the books at any given point. In one example the methods and systems advantageously provide for tracking and gathering data about assets which couple to devices which are already coupled to a network. In one example a computing device USB port is advantageously being utilized to track the use of an asset. In one example the asset is an analog headset providing an analog microphone output signal.

The methods and systems described herein in various examples provide a variety of advantages. For example the methods and systems enable an enterprise to have access to all the asset identifiers assigned to users and keep track of who is utilizing the assets. This is particularly advantageous where assets tend to get misplaced or stolen or inadvertently used by others to whom the asset was not assigned. The methods and systems help manage and track warranty data associated with assets including when an asset warranty begins and expires. In certain examples the methods and systems allow users to automatically retrieve their listening preferences as they move between different workstations providing convenience and safety. Furthermore the methods and systems described may be utilized to enhance security as they present a process for user authentication by comparing a user identifier assigned to an asset with a current user identifier who is currently attempting to use the asset. The methods and systems described herein offer the enterprise the ability to easily track a variety of asset usage data.

In one embodiment workstation is any computing device such as a personal computer or notebook computer. Workstation includes an asset management application to manage assets as described herein. In one example asset management application interfaces with an asset management database residing on server . Asset management database stores an asset data record for each asset . In a further example asset management database may be located at central management computer .

An asset may be coupled and decoupled to workstation by an asset user. For example asset may be a headset having a microphone and a speaker. Asset includes a unique identifier . For example unique identifier may be a unique serial number generated by the asset manufacturer and stored in an asset memory.

In one embodiment asset management system is utilized in a call center environment whereby there are multiple workstations having multiple agents. In further examples asset management system is implemented by any entity or individual wishing to manage assets. Central management computer includes an automatic call distributor ACD . When an agent logs into central management computer this indicates that the agent is available to receive calls at the workstation from the automatic call distributor . Automatic call distributor is a call control apparatus used for connecting an incoming call to an agent at a workstation . The ACD automatically routes telephone calls to workstations connected to the system. The calls may be routed using a variety of algorithms. For example calls may be routed in a way that balances the call load equally between the workstations with each workstation occupied by an agent. An ACD may also simply distribute an incoming call by detecting which agent is logged in and not on a call. In one example each agent is required to login to the system each time he occupies his workstation and to log off the system each time he leaves his workstation.

In one example operation asset is coupled to or connected to workstation . Asset management application executing on workstation is operable to detect coupling or connection of the asset to workstation . Asset management application retrieves asset identifier from asset and determines whether asset is a new asset or a previously used asset based on asset identifier . Asset management application determines whether asset is a new asset by searching the asset data records for an asset data record corresponding to the asset identifier . If no such record exists the asset is determined to be a new asset and asset management application creates a new asset data record corresponding to the asset . This may be referred to as a new asset initialization.

In the new data record the asset management application associates the asset with a user identifier corresponding to the user of the asset. For example the user identifier is the user login name or a user first and last name. In one example asset management application determines the user identifier from the workstation where the user has previously entered login data to authorize access to workstation . For example the user identifier may be obtained from a workstation operating system. The user identifier may be derived from the user login name and or password entered by the user during the login process.

For example the login process may be required to access workstation or required to connect to central management computer . In the latter case the user identifier may be obtained from the central management computer which may store the full name of the user corresponding to a user login name and or password. In yet another embodiment server receives the asset identifier from workstation and interfaces with central management computer and ACD to retrieve the user identifier.

If asset is a new asset asset management application records a date and time data e.g. timestamp data indicating when the asset was first used. Timestamp data may be obtained from workstation central management computer or server . This will coincide with when the asset management record for the asset was created. Advantageously this first use detection data may be utilized for warranty determination purposes as an alternative to using an asset purchase date. This is desirable in that it allows enterprises to purchase assets in advance of usage without worrying about the warranty period beginning to toll while the asset remains unused. Asset management application also records user preference settings for the use of asset in the asset data record . For example such user preference settings may include volume level treble setting and bass setting.

During subsequent uses of asset asset management application detects or receives an indication of a coupling of asset to workstation . Asset management application retrieves or receives the asset identifier for asset and locates an asset data record in database corresponding to asset identifier . Asset management application retrieves and implements any user preference setting from the asset data record . In one example asset management application retrieves an asset start date from the asset data record and identifies whether the asset warranty has expired. In one example asset management application determines whether a user identifier corresponding to a current user of the workstation e.g. obtained from the login data for the workstation matches the user identifier associated with the asset identifier in the asset data record . In this manner asset management application can advantageously determine whether the current user of asset is the person who was originally assigned use of the asset .

Asset management application records data associated with the asset in the asset data record . The recorded data includes usage data of asset . The usage data includes date and time data corresponding to each coupling and decoupling of the asset to the workstation . The usage data also includes date and time data corresponding to each coupling and decoupling of the asset to a different workstation from the workstation at which the asset was first coupled when new.

In a further example asset management application records usage data including a workstation identifier to which the asset was coupled a user identifier corresponding to a user who was logged into the workstation corresponding to the workstation identifier date and time data for when the asset was coupled and date and time data for when the asset was decoupled.

As shown the asset is connected to the workstation via a connector and a base . For example base is a USB Universal Serial Bus headset adapter connected to workstation via USB connection . Base may include audio processing functionality. The connector may be a quick disconnect QD device and preferably allows the headset user to quickly disconnect the asset at the connector rather than at the base so that the user may easily and quickly disconnect the headset and leave the area without removing the asset . The connector has a headset portion that is connected to the asset and a base portion that is connected to the base .

The headset portion and the base portion of the connector are connected to and disconnected from each other so as to connect and disconnect the asset and the base . It is noted that although the examples described herein utilize the connector between the asset and the base as is preferred the asset may alternatively be directly connected to and disconnected from the base . In particular the digital signaling taking place between the base and the workstation for automatic detection of the connection status of the asset is similar regardless of whether the connector is provided.

The asset is preferably in communication with the workstation via the base connected to a USB port of the workstation . However any other suitable communication port may be used for connecting the asset to the workstation . In addition although wired connections are typically and preferably employed such as between the base and the workstation and between the base and the asset wireless connections may alternatively be employed. For example the asset may be a cordless headset in wireless communication with the base e.g. using RF technology. The asset can be selectively powered on or off and thus be selectively in communication with the base . Thus the term connection and coupling utilized herein generally refers to both wired and wireless connections in various examples.

The workstation is generally any suitable processor based device such as a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a digital music player e.g. MP3 player a video player e.g. DVD player a video game player and a processor based telephone. The workstation executes application software such as a telephony application software that uses the asset for example for receiving the user s voice as input and or for outputting sounds to the user as output. When the user disconnects the asset at the connector the base transmits a digital flag signal indicating a change in the headset connection status to the workstation running the application software including an asset management application .

Similarly when the user reconnects the asset at the connector the base transmits the flag signal to indicate a change in the headset connection status to the application software running on the workstation . Thus as is evident the base functions at least in part as a headset connection status signaling module to the workstation . For example base may execute an asset management application which transmits the flag signals corresponding to the asset connection status to asset management application . In one example asset management application operates to retrieve identifier from asset when it is connected and transmit the identifier to asset management application .

In operation asset management application detects the coupling of asset by detecting either the establishment of a wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth connection between workstation and asset or a physical connection e.g. USB connection between workstation and asset . In one example asset is a Bluetooth wireless headset or a DECT wireless headset with a retrievable unique serial number stored in memory. Similarly asset management application detects the decoupling of asset by detecting either a termination of the wireless connection between workstation and asset or the physical removal of asset from workstation . Upon detection of the coupling of asset asset management application retrieves the asset identifier from asset .

As shown the host workstation includes a processor such as a CPU that controls hardware and application software on the workstation . For example the processor may execute application software such as a training application voice recognition application music or other audio player application video game application video player application and softphone application. The term softphone application generally refers to a telephony application running on a PC or other processor based host. Processor executes asset management application and login application . In one example asset management application is operable to determine a user identifier and a workstation identifier either from workstation or central management computer . The processor communicates with the base via the USB port

The base includes a USB port that communicates with and corresponds to the USB port in the workstation . The base further includes a connector detect module a wired connector interface an asset management application stored in memory and a processor . In certain examples base includes a digital to analog converter DAC and an analog to digital converter ADC . The base may facilitate in providing various features associated with the asset such as gain control volume control tone control treble boost and or bass boost. The base may include integrated in line controls not shown for controlling such features. Alternatively such features may be integrated into a host based software application. Asset includes an identifier stored in memory microphone and speaker .

In one example asset connection status of connector is determined by the connector detect module i.e. whether the connector is open or closed. Any suitable mechanism such as electronic state and or mechanical detection mechanism may be employed by the detect module the connector and or the processor to detect the status of the connector . In particular the connector detect module or processor either alone or in combination may passively or actively monitor the status of the asset connector . As an example of active monitoring the connector detect module may actively monitor the status of an electrical or mechanical switch provided in the connector by polling the connector . The switch in the connector may be configured such that the switch is closed when the connector is closed and is open when the connector is open. Thus when the switch in the connector is opened or closed the connector detect module detects the change as a result of the active polling.

Alternatively the connector detect module may passively monitor for changes in the status of the connector such as by detecting a voltage change at the detect module as a result of for example the switch in the connector being opened or closed. In one embodiment the system may be configured such that the voltage at the interface between the base and the connector is lower when the asset is connected. In addition depending upon the specific implementation this voltage change itself may be sufficient to bypass the detect module directly into the processor . As yet another alternative embodiment the processor of the workstation may poll the base for the asset connection status through the USB ports .

Regardless of how the status of the connector is monitored the processor of the base generates the digital asset connection status signal the value of which depends upon the connection status of the asset . The digital asset status signal is preferably configured so as to be interpretable by the workstation and or base and or various application software products on the workstation and or base. The value of the signal or flag indicating the asset connection status is changed when the connection status of the asset changes.

In one example the flag signal generated by the processor is transmitted to the processor of the PC workstation via the USB ports of the PC workstation and the USB base respectively. Preferably the flag signal is transmitted from the USB port of the host workstation to the processor .

The asset management application and other desired application software executed by the processor responds in response to changes in the asset connection status. Specifically the asset management application is configured to perform certain actions upon occurrence of a corresponding change in the asset connection status flag. In other words depending on how the asset management application and or the host workstation are configured the value of the status flag indicating the asset connection status determines which action s the application software and or host workstation perform.

For example when the flag signal is transmitted to the processor of the PC workstation indicating that the connector is disconnected the processor may store timestamp data for the disconnect event in the asset data record of the asset .

Upon receiving the flag signal indicating that the connector is reconnected the processor retrieves the identifier from the asset and stores timestamp data for the connect event in the asset data record of the asset . Thus the processor based workstation and or the asset management application are responsive to changes in the asset connection status.

As noted above the application software executed by the processor is configured to perform certain actions upon occurrence of a corresponding change in the asset connector status. Such actions are typically implemented or otherwise configured in the asset management application and are performed when the workstation is informed of the change in the asset connection status i.e. whether the asset is in communication with the workstation . Detailed examples of actions performed in response to changes in the asset connection status will now be presented although any other suitable actions may be implemented in the application software and or the workstation .

In one example asset management application executable at base is configured to retrieve the asset identifier when the asset is connected to i.e. coupled to the base and the asset management application is further configured to transmit the asset identifier to workstation via USB ports . Asset management application receives the asset identifier . In one example asset management application receives the asset identifier and associates it with a user identifier corresponding to a current user of the personal computer. In one example the operations described herein performed by asset management application are integrated with and performed by asset management application at workstation . In a further example the operations described herein performed by asset management application are integrated with and performed by asset management application at base . In yet another example the operations described herein are divided between asset management application and asset management application .

Workstation executing asset management application performs operations including detecting coupling of an asset to a workstation . The operations include retrieving an asset identifier stored on the asset and determining the asset is a new asset. In one example determining the asset is a new asset includes searching a plurality of asset data records in asset database for an asset data record corresponding to the asset identifier . If the asset is a new asset an asset data record corresponding to the asset is created.

In one example the operations include determining a user identifier from the workstation wherein a user corresponding to the user identifier has previously entered login data to authorize access to the workstation . The operations include associating the asset with a user identifier in the asset data record . In one example the user identifier is a user login name or a user first and last name.

The operations further include recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record . In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a date and time data the asset was first used.

In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a usage data of the asset . The usage data may include date and time data corresponding to each coupling and decoupling of the asset to the workstation . The usage data may include date and time data corresponding to each coupling and decoupling of the asset to a different workstation e.g. as illustrated in from the workstation . The usage data may include a workstation identifier to which the asset was coupled a user identifier corresponding to a user who was logged into the workstation corresponding to the workstation identifier date and time data for when the asset was coupled and date and time data for when the asset was decoupled. In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording user preference settings such as audio listening preferences including volume treble base etc.

Once an asset has been used once and associated with a user identifier in a data record usage of asset is tracked and managed by asset management application during subsequent coupling and decoupling to the system . Workstation executing asset management application performs operations including detecting coupling of an asset to a workstation receiving an asset identifier stored on the asset and locating an asset data record corresponding to the asset . In one example the operations include retrieving and implementing user preference setting from the asset data record . In one example the operations include retrieving a headset start date from the asset data record and identifying an asset warranty expiration occurrence.

In one example the operations further include determining whether a user identifier corresponding to a current user of the workstation matches the user identifier associated with the asset identifier in the asset data record . Advantageously this determines whether the current user of the workstation is actually the correct assigned user of the asset who was initially assigned use of the asset at the time the asset was determined to be new and the data record was created. In one example if the user identifiers do not match a warning message is output at workstation and or the use of asset is blocked. Advantageously the system thereby reduces incidences of theft or unauthorized borrowing of assets because the assets cannot be used by an unauthorized user. The operations further include recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record . This data may include usage data as previously described.

Asset data record includes a usage log which logs all usage of the asset. In the example shown in the usage log includes data fields for an event type timestamp data associated for the event user identifier corresponding to the logged in user at the time of the event and the workstation identifier at which the event occurred. Advantageously using asset data record it can be determined who is using the asset and whether the user is the original assigned user. It can also be determined exactly where the asset is being used. This information can be sent to the assigned asset user by the asset management application. Where the asset is being used by its proper assignee data record can be used to monitor a user identifier work hours and workstation locations. Furthermore the total hours of usage of the asset can be monitored so that the enterprise can determine when it may be necessary to replace an asset.

At block an asset identifier stored on the asset is retrieved. At block it is determined whether the asset is a new asset. In one example determining the asset is a new asset includes searching a plurality of asset data records for an asset data record corresponding to the asset identifier. If no at decision block the process proceeds to block . If yes at decision block at block an asset data record corresponding to the asset is created.

At block the asset is associated with a user identifier in the asset data record. In one example the process further includes determining the user identifier from the computing device wherein a user corresponding to the user identifier has previously entered login data to authorize access to the computing device. In one example the user identifier is a user login name or a user first and last name.

At block a data associated with the asset in the asset data record is recorded. In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a date and time data the asset was first used. In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a usage data of the asset. For example the usage data includes date and time data corresponding to each coupling and decoupling of the asset to the computing device or a different computing device.

In a further example the usage data includes a computing device identifier to which the asset was coupled a user identifier corresponding to a user who was logged into the computing device corresponding to the computing device identifier date and time data for when the asset was coupled and date and time data for when the asset was decoupled. In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a user preference setting.

At block an asset identifier stored on the asset is received. At block an asset data record corresponding to the asset is located. In one example the process includes determining whether a user identifier corresponding to a current user of the computing device matches the user identifier associated with the asset identifier in the asset data record.

At block a data associated with the asset in the asset data record is recorded. In one example recording a data associated with the asset in the asset data record includes recording a usage data of the asset. For example the usage data includes date and time data corresponding a coupling and a decoupling of the asset to the computing device.

In one example the usage data includes a computing device identifier to which the asset was coupled a user identifier corresponding to a user who was logged into the computing device corresponding to the computing device identifier date and time data for when the asset was coupled and date and time data for when the asset was decoupled.

In one example the process further includes retrieving and implementing user preference settings from the asset data record. In one example the process further includes retrieving a headset start date from the asset data record and identifying an asset warranty expiration occurrence. In one example the process further includes receiving an indication of a decoupling of the asset from a computing device.

The exemplary computer system includes a display a screen a cabinet a keyboard and a mouse . The cabinet typically houses one or more drives to read a computer readable storage medium a system memory and a hard drive which can be utilized to store and or retrieve software programs incorporating computer codes that implement the methods and processes described herein and or data for use with the software programs for example. A CD and a floppy disk are shown as exemplary computer readable storage media readable by a corresponding floppy disk or CD ROM or CD RW drive . Computer readable medium typically refers to any data storage device that can store data readable by a computer system. Examples of computer readable storage media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and specially configured hardware devices such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices.

The computer system includes various subsystems such as a microprocessor also referred to as a CPU or central processing unit system memory fixed storage such as a hard drive removable storage such as a CD ROM drive display adapter sound card transducers such as speakers and microphones network interface and or printer fax scanner interface . The computer system also includes a system bus . However the specific buses shown are merely illustrative of any interconnection scheme serving to link the various subsystems. For example a local bus can be utilized to connect the central processor to the system memory and display adapter.

Methods and processes described herein may be executed solely upon CPU and or may be performed across a network such as the Internet intranet networks or LANs local area networks in conjunction with a remote CPU that shares a portion of the processing.

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative and that modifications can be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Although certain examples describe a headset asset type the methods and systems described are applicable to other asset types. In further non limiting examples assets may be a computer mouse external loudspeaker or external storage device. Acts described herein may be computer readable and executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and stored on a computer readable memory or articles. The computer readable and executable instructions may include for example application programs program modules routines and subroutines a thread of execution and the like. In some instances not all acts may be required to be implemented in a methodology described herein.

Terms such as component module circuit and system are intended to encompass software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example a system or component may be a process a process executing on a processor or a processor. Furthermore a functionality component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. The described subject matter may be implemented as an apparatus a method or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control one or more computing devices.

Thus the scope of the invention is intended to be defined only in terms of the following claims as may be amended with each claim being expressly incorporated into this Description of Specific Embodiments as an embodiment of the invention.

