---

title: User centric data maintenance
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for dynamically maintaining user centric data. For example, a data provider app may have knowledge about user centric data associated with a user (e.g., a social network app may have contact information for a social network friend of the user). A user centric profile may be defined for the user centric data based upon information provided by the data provider app (e.g., a contact card may be generated for the social network friend). Responsive to receiving a request for the user centric profile from a requestor app (e.g., an event planning app), the user centric profile may be exposed to the user but not to the requestor app for security and/or privacy purposes. For example, an operating system may present at least some of the user centric profile within an operating system user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405932&OS=09405932&RS=09405932
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09405932
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130524
---
Many users may maintain user centric data with various services. In an example a user may maintain an email contact list with a personal email service accessible through a personal email app and or a personal email website. In another example a user may maintain a work calendar with a work productivity service. The work calendar may comprise event data calendar entries tasks email data and or a variety of other user centric data. In another example a user may maintain a social network profile with a social network service. The social network profile may correspond to a social network friend list social network messages a social network calendar social network profiles social network posts and or a variety of other user centric data. Such services may be accessible through apps such as the personal email app a social network app a work productivity app etc. Aggregating and or sharing user centric data between apps may be useful but may pose security and or privacy risks e.g. a spam application may utilize personal information exposed by another app to spam other users or cause other problems .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for dynamically maintaining user centric data are provided herein. For example a user may be associated with first user centric data e.g. a social network friend contact an email address book entry a task event information a social network profile a user calendar entry and or a plethora of other user defined data . A data provider app may have knowledge regarding the first user centric data. For example a social network data provider app may be capable of accessing and or defining social network user centric data maintained through a social network service. Accordingly a first user centric definition for the first user centric data may be received from the data provider app e.g. the social network data provider app may specify through the first user centric definition a social network friend list social network messaging information social network calendar information and or other user centric data maintained with the social network service . In an example the data provider app may specify access criteria for portions of the first user centric data e.g. a social security number may be merely accessible to an operating system user interface a photo may be accessible to a particular requestor app e.g. after the particular requestor app successfully satisfies a validation process a user name may be accessible to any requestor app etc. .

A first user centric profile may be defined for the first user centric data based upon the first user centric definition. In an example the first user centric profile may specify one or more user contacts associated with the user centric data e.g. an email address a social network ID a mailing address a work phone number and or other information about Jane a social network friend of the user . In another example the first user centric profile may specify event information associated with the user centric data e.g. party location address invitee contact list cake shop phone number and or other event information associated with a birthday party event hosted by the user . In another example the first user centric profile may specify one or more calendar entries e.g. information for an afternoon work meeting . It may be appreciated that in one example a wide variety of user centric data may be specified as one or more profile parameters within the first user centric profile e.g. an email address profile parameter for Jane a social network ID profile parameter for Jane and or other profile parameters within a user centric profile for Jane . In some embodiments user centric profiles may be created for respective user centric entities e.g. a first user centric profile for a first user contact a second user centric profile for a second user contact a third user centric profile for a first event a fourth user centric profile for a first calendar entry etc. . In some embodiments a user centric profile may correspond to multiple user centric entities e.g. a first user centric profile may correspond to calendar entries of a current month for the user tasks for the user and or other user centric data for the user .

In an example the first user centric profile may be maintained and or owned by a trusted source such as an operating system configured to restrict unauthorized access to the first user centric profile. The operating system may expose the first user centric profile to the user and or may selectively provide merely a portion of the first user centric profile to an action facilitator app capable of performing an action upon the first user centric profile. In an example a request may be received from a requestor app e.g. the user may utilize an event planning app to plan a party . Responsive to the request corresponding to the first user centric profile e.g. the request may comprise a query parameter such as a phone number for Jane the first user centric profile or a portion s thereof may be exposed to the user of the requestor app but may not be exposed to the requestor app. For example a social network ID for Jane within the first user centric profile may be displayed to the user through an operating system user interface e.g. the operating system user interface may be drawn within a requestor app interface of the event planning app but may be inaccessible to the event planning app without allowing the requestor app to access the social network ID. In this way the user may access the first user centric profile through the requestor app without the requestor app having access to the first user centric profile. In some embodiments one or more portions of the user centric profile may be exposed to the requestor app based upon the requestor app satisfying access criteria e.g. while the same and or different portions of the user centric profile may be exposed through an operating system user interface . For example merely a photo but not a social security number or other sensitive information from a user centric profile may be exposed to the requestor app based upon the requestor app satisfying access criteria for the photo. In some embodiments one or more data provider apps that respectively provide different portions of the user centric profile may specify which portions of the user centric profile may be exposed to which requestor apps and or respective access criteria for different requestor apps to be able to access different portions of the user centric profile. For example a first requestor app may have to satisfy first criteria to be able to access a first portion of the user centric profile e.g. where the first criteria is specified by a first data provider app that provided the first portion of the user centric profile a second requestor app may have to satisfy second different criteria to be able to access the first portion of the user centric profile e.g. where the second criteria is specified by the first data provider app that provided the first portion of the user centric profile the first requestor app and second requestor app may have to satisfy a third criteria to be able to access a second portion of user centric profile e.g. where the third criteria is specified by a second data provider app that provided the second portion of the user centric profile etc.

In some embodiments the first user centric profile may be exposed to the user by facilitating an action that may be performed upon the first user centric profile. In an example of facilitating an action the request from the requestor app may comprise a request to perform an action e.g. a send message to a social network email address for Jane . The operating system may invoke an action facilitator app e.g. an email application to create a new email with Jane as the recipient so that the user may write an email to Jane. The operating system may merely pass the social network email address for Jane to the action facilitator app as opposed to the entire first user centric profile e.g. the first user centric profile may comprise a social security number a home address and or other personal information that may not be exposed to the email application . In another example of facilitating an action an action that may be invokeable by the user upon the first user centric profile may be exposed to the user e.g. call Jane . Responsive to selection of the action by the user a first profile parameter e.g. a phone number for Jane within the first user centric profile may be provided to the action facilitator app for performance of the action e.g. a phone app . In this way user centric data may be maintained in a secure manner while still allowing the user to access the user centric data through a requestor app and or perform actions upon the user centric data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of dynamically maintaining user centric data is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. In an example a user may be associated with user centric data such as a user contact a user calendar entry a social network user e.g. a profile of a social network friend a social network event a social network message a social network profile a social network image etc. a user defined event e.g. a party event an oil change task etc. and or user defined data. Because user centric data may be maintained by a variety of applications websites and or services e.g. a social network service a personal email service a photo sharing app a microblogging app a work calendar service etc. it may be advantageous to aggregate user centric data in an extensible manner e.g. by allowing data provider apps to define update and or remove user centric data maintained by an operating system as user centric profiles . In this way user centric data may be brokered out to users and or applications in a controlled and or secure manner. For example the operating system may function as a user centric data broker that operates as a gatekeeper as to which users and or applications can access particular user centric data .

At a first user centric definition for first user centric data may be received from a data provider app e.g. through an XML file through an operating system application programming interface API exposed to the data provider app etc. . The data provider app may be authenticated for defining the first user centric data based for example upon an evaluation of an application manifest associated with the data provider app e.g. a desktop application a web service a market place app or other app may declare itself as a data provider capable of defining e.g. providing user centric data . In an example a user may install a photo sharing application onto a mobile device e.g. a tablet device mobile phone etc. . The photo sharing application may allow the user to access a photo sharing account maintained by a photo sharing service for the user. Thus the photo sharing application may have access to and or knowledge about the photo sharing account and or actions that may be performed upon the photo sharing account through the photo sharing service e.g. the user may be capable of posting a photo to a photo board of a friend contact that is a user of the photo sharing service . Accordingly the photo sharing application may define the first user centric data through the first user centric definition. For example the first user centric definition may specify that the user has the friend contact e.g. a photo sharing user ID for the friend contact a photo sharing service email address for the friend contact a full name for the friend contact etc. and the photo sharing service is capable of posting a photo to the photo board of the friend contact on behalf of the user e.g. a post photo action that may be performed by the photo sharing service that is accessible through an IP address and or URL for the photo sharing application . It may be appreciated that a variety of information may be specified through the first user centric definition e.g. the first user centric definition may specify a name an address a social network ID a phone number and or a variety of other information for the friend contact and that merely a few examples are provided for simplicity.

At a first user centric profile may be defined for the first user centric data based upon the user centric definition. In an example the first user centric profile may be maintained by a trusted source such as an operating system. For example the operating system may store the first user centric profile within an indexed user centric data store controlled by the operating system e.g. the first user centric profile may be indexed such that a query may be performing using one or more query parameters such as a query parameter corresponding to a name an address or other identifying information of the friend contact in order retrieve the first user centric profile . Because the operating system controls the indexed user centric data store the operating system may restrict unauthorized access to the first user centric profile. In this way the operating system functions as a secure broker of user centric data e.g. the indexed user centric data store may comprise a plurality of user centric profiles associated with the user such as a user centric profile for a calendar event a user centric profile for an email contact etc. . In an example the first user centric profile may comprise one or more profile parameters specified by one or more data provider apps e.g. an email data provider app may define a work email for the friend contact for aggregation and or inclusion within the first user centric profile a video chat data provider app may define a video chat phone number for the friend contact for aggregation and or inclusion within the first user centric profile etc. . In an example the first user centric profile may be updated based upon an update from the data provider app e.g. a first profile parameter may be updated a new profile parameter may be added a second profile parameter may be removed etc. .

The user may interact with a requestor app such as an event planning application that may allow the user to create a party event create a guest list create a to do list and or perform other actions. In an example the user may attempt to add the friend contact e.g. the friend contact defined within the first user centric profile to the guest list for notification of the party. At a request may be received from the requestor app. The request may correspond to the first user centric profile. For example the request may comprise a query parameter e.g. an email address of the friend contact that may be used to query the indexed user centric data store to identify the first user centric profile as defining the friend contact. Responsive to receiving the request corresponding to the first user centric profile the first user centric profile may be exposed to the user of the requestor app but the requestor app may be restricted from accessing the first user centric profile. It may be appreciated that the first user centric profile may be exposed to the user in a variety of manners such as visually displaying the first user centric profile e.g. within an operating user interface owned by the operating system but appearing to be associated with a requestor app user interface of the request app providing an action that may be selected for performance upon the first user centric profile by the user e.g. an action to post a party photo invite to the photo board of the friend contact performance of an action specified within the request from the requestor app e.g. the request may specify that a message is to be sent to a photo sharing service email address unknown to the requestor app but specified within the first user centric profile of the friend contact without requiring additional user input etc.

In an example of exposing the first user centric profile the operating system may display the first user centric profile through an operating system user interface e.g. a user contact card a calendar system component a drop down list a charm an operating system interface tile of an operating system home screen and or other user interfaces controlled by the operating system . For example the operating system may draw the operating system user interface within the requestor app interface of the requestor app such that at least some of the first user centric profile may appear to be provided by the requestor app but is actually provided by the operating system in a secure manner where the requestor app does not have access to the first user centric profile. In an example the first user centric profile may comprise a first profile parameter corresponding to a work email address for the friend contact and a second profile parameter corresponding to a personal email address for the friend contact. The first profile parameter may be visually displayed before the second profile parameter within the operating system user interface because the work email address may have been more recently used than the personal email address.

In another example of exposing the first user centric profile an action invokeable by the user upon the first user centric profile may be presented. For example a video chat action may be presented with a video chat phone number profile parameter through the operating system user interface. Responsive to selection of the action by the user an action facilitator app capable of executing the action may be identified e.g. a video chat app . A first profile parameter may be provided to the action facilitator app based upon the first profile parameter corresponding to the action e.g. the video chat phone number profile parameter corresponds to the video chat action . In an example a second profile parameter and or other profile parameters not relevant to performing the video chat action may not be provided to the action facilitator app e.g. the video chat app may be restricted from accessing a home address profile parameter for the friend contact . In this way the user may view and or perform various actions upon user centric data while selectively exposing merely relevant information to particular application s in a secure manner. At the method ends.

It may be appreciated that the first user centric definition may be utilized to add to an existing user centric profile e.g. multiple data provider apps may contribute to a single user centric profile . For example a fifth user centric profile for George may have a work email address profile parameter previously specified by a work email data provider app based upon the user working with George. The first user centric definition may specify a social network ID for George whom is a friend of the user. The user centric data broker may add a social network ID profile parameter to the fifth user centric profile for George. In this way the user centric data broker may securely maintain user centric profiles for selective exposure to users and or applications e.g. where content parameters etc. of one or more user centric profiles may be derived from one or more sources applications etc. . It may be appreciated that the user centric data broker may combine the contributions from multiple data provider apps into a single user centric profile e.g. and or may create separate user centric profiles e.g. and specify a relationship s between one or more of the separate user centric profiles . The user centric data broker may provide data provider apps with selective access to portions of the user centric profile. For example the user centric data broker may provide data provider apps with access to portions of the user centric profile to which they contributed but may restrict access to portions of the user centric profile to which they did not contribute. For example a social network data provider app may be allowed to view add modify delete etc. a friends list of a user centric profile where the social network data provider app provided data for the friends list but may restricted from accessing other aspects of the user centric profile to which the social network data provider app did not contribute. Similarly other data provider apps that did not contribute to the friends list may not be allowed to access e.g. view add modify delete etc. the friends list.

In an example the user centric data broker and or the indexed user centric data store are owned and maintained by a trusted source such as an operating system. The operating system may restrict unauthorized access to the indexed user centric data store . For example when a user requests user centric data through a requestor app the operating system may expose a user centric profile to the user but not to the requestor app e.g. the operating system may display the user centric profile through an operating system user interface or the operating system may merely provide a relevant portion of the user centric profile to an action facilitator app capable of performing an action upon the user centric profile . In another example at least a portion of the user centric profile may be provided to a requestor app such as where the requestor app satisfies access criteria for that portion of the user centric profile e.g. where the access criteria is specified by the data provider app that provided that portion of the user centric profile . In this way user centric data may be securely stored within the indexed user centric data store and or exposed to the user or other application without unauthorized access or exposure of user centric data.

In an example a request may be received from the social network data provider app . The request may specify a request to access the first user centric profile within the indexed user centric data store . The operating system protection layer may determine that the first user centric profile may have been defined by the social network data provider app e.g. the social network data provider app may have ownership access or rights to the first user centric profile . According the operating system may expose the first user centric profile or a relevant portion thereof to the social network data provider app .

In an example a user of the operating system may access the requestor app such as an event app that may allow the user to perform various functionality associated with planning an event e.g. creating a guest list messaging guests creating a to do list managing a party budget etc. . The user may request to add Jane a friend through a social work service to the guest list. Because additional and or useful contact information regarding Jane may be stored within the indexed user centric data store e.g. user centric data stored within a user centric profile for Jane may provide additional information about Jane not known by the event app such as a social network email address the event app may send a request to access user centric data such as a user centric profile for Jane. The request may comprise a query parameter such as a name Jane a phone number for Jane and or other information that may be used to identify a user centric profile for Jane. The operating system e.g. the user centric data broker may query the indexed user centric data store using the query parameter in order to identify a user centric profile corresponding to the query parameter e.g. the first user centric profile may match the name Jane and may comprise one or more profile parameters corresponding to user centric data for Jane such as a social network email address a home address a marital status an image etc. .

Because the event app may or may not be trusted the operating system may expose the first user centric profile to the user but may restrict the event app from accessing the first user centric profile. It may be appreciated that various techniques for exposing the first user centric profile to the user but not the event app may be performed and that merely a few examples are provided for simplicity. In an example the operating system may create an operating system user interface within which the first user centric profile may be drawn by the operating system . The user may view and or interact with the first user centric profile through the operating system user interface . Because the operating system may control the operating system user interface the first user centric profile may not be exposed to the event app e.g. the event app may not have access to the first user centric profile even though the operating system user interface may be displayed within a requestor app user interface of the event app such as through a drop down list or a contact card . In an example responsive to the user indicating that the social network email address for Jane is to be added to the event merely the social network email address may be provided to the event app e.g. but not the home address marital status or image for Jane unless further requested by the user . In another example responsive to the user indicating that an email invite is to be sent to Jane then the operating system may merely expose the social network email address to an email application for completion of an email action e.g. but not the home address marital status or image for Jane unless further requested by the user .

In an example a user of the operating system may access a requestor app such as a work docket app that may allow the user to manage office related information such as office productivity office workloads office tasks meeting agendas etc. The user may request through the work docket app to contact Bill. Because additional and or useful contact information regarding Bill may be stored in the indexed user centric data store e.g. user centric data stored within a user centric profile for Bill may provide additional information about Bill not known to the work docket app such as a work phone number the work docket app may send a request to access user centric data such as a user centric profile for Bill. The request may comprise a query parameter such as a work email address for Bill. The operating system e.g. the user centric data broker may query the indexed user centric data store using the query parameter in order to identify a user centric profile corresponding to the query parameter e.g. the second user centric profile may match the work email address for Bill and may comprise one or more profile parameters corresponding to user centric data for Bill such as the work phone number .

The operating system may determine that the user wants to call Bill s work phone number e.g. a call action may be specified within the request the user may have selected a call action exposed to the user by the operating system along with the work phone number for Bill etc. . The operating system may determine that a phone app may be an action facilitator app capable of performing the call action. Accordingly the operating system may expose the work phone number for Bill to the phone app so that the user can call Bill through the phone app . In an example merely the work phone number is exposed to the phone app and the phone app may be restricted from accessing other profile parameters e.g. a home address profile parameter for Bill . In this way the operating system may operate as a user centric data broker that provides a user with secure access to user centric data.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13104 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

