---

title: Tinnitus testing device and method
abstract: Objectively identifying an acoustic characteristic of tinnitus of a subject. The subject is exposed to a sound pattern having a background acoustic signal preceding an audible silence. The background acoustic signal has a selected acoustic characteristic. An electrical response of the subject's central nervous system to the exposure to the sound pattern is measured. The measured electrical response has a first portion representing the electrical response of the subject's central nervous system to the background acoustic signal, and a second portion representing the electrical response of the subject's central nervous system to the audible silence in the sound pattern. The first portion of the measured electrical response is compared to the second portion of the measured electrical response and a determination is made as to whether the subject has tinnitus with an acoustic characteristic similar to the selected acoustic characteristic based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08888712&OS=08888712&RS=08888712
owner: Board of Trustees of Southern Illinois University
number: 08888712
owner_city: Springfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 397 277 filed Mar. 3 2009 entitled Tinnitus Testing Device and Method which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 669 767 filed Jan. 31 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 088 077 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 835 162 filed Aug. 2 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 801 229 filed May 16 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant numbers AG023910 and DC008357 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Tinnitus is the perception of noise in the ears or head when no external sound is present. It is sometimes referred to as ringing in the ears but people report hearing all kinds of sounds such as cricket chirps whooshing hissing pulsing and buzzing. It can vary in pitch from a low roar to a high squeal or whine and may be heard in one or both ears. When the ringing is fairly constant it can be annoying and distracting. As many as 50 million Americans suffer from tinnitus in some form. More than seven million people suffer severe and disabling symptoms significantly impacting their quality of life. Because tinnitus is associated with aging and human longevity is increasing the impact of tinnitus on society will likely get worse.

Despite the prevalence of tinnitus and its debilitating symptoms in many patients the cause s of tinnitus imperative to precise prevention and treatment remain largely unknown. Currently causes s and treatment s of tinnitus are especially difficult to identify because conventional testing techniques are unable to accurately and reliably detect and quantify tinnitus. One common detection and characterization method involves exposing a subject to several different sound patterns and asking the subject which sound pattern is the most qualitatively similar to the sounds he or she perceives. While this method is beneficial for detecting tinnitus in some subjects it is not effective where the subject is unable to communicate with the test administrator or where the subject cannot perceive all of the effects of the subject s own tinnitus condition. Because this approach relies solely on the subject to explain his or her symptoms this approach is also subject to malingering a condition where a subject claims to have a medical problem such as tinnitus when such problem does not actually exist. There are many reasons for malingering related to tinnitus one of which includes fraudulently collecting disability reimbursement. Currently such fraud is a particular issue concerning military disability reimbursement. Another reason for malingering relates to psychiatric disorders suffered by subjects. A subject may believe he or she experiences tinnitus because he or she perceives sounds as a result of a psychiatric disorder when in fact no tinnitus actually exists.

In other cases the subjects are animals and cannot reliably communicate with the test administrator. Animal models have been developed and used in an effort to improve detection techniques and prevention and treatment measures for tinnitus. Tinnitus may be modeled in animals by inducing a peripheral hearing loss such as a loud sound exposure which is a known cause of tinnitus in humans and performing behavioral tests to provide indicators of an animal s tinnitus. These behavioral tests require training animals to respond distinctively to the presence or absence of an acoustic stimulus. In some of these models tinnitus is indicated when no external sound is present and the animals respond distinctively indicating that the animals hear sound. Because the behavioral training is based on the animals ability to learn remember and voluntarily communicate with the test administrator such animal models have inherent accuracy and implementation issues. In addition the animal models typically require complex behavior manipulations e.g. food or water deprivation finely tuned shock parameters variable reinforcement schedules and weeks to months of complicated behavioral training. Thus due to the subjective nature of tinnitus in both humans and laboratory animals tinnitus testing techniques relying on the subjective response of the subject are generally problematic.

Similarly current detection techniques relating to an objective response of the subject are insufficient to accurately and reliably detect and measure tinnitus. One objective detection method discussed in PCT application WO 02 47547 determines the presence of tinnitus by detecting the presence of pain. The method measures the electrical output of nerve fibers which is associated with pain. However such a method may not be appropriate for subjects experiencing pain from sources other than tinnitus. Moreover this method describes determining the presence of tinnitus in a subject it does not describe a method of objectively quantifying or determining the severity of the subject s tinnitus. The ability to quantify a subject s tinnitus is crucial to finding a proper and suitable treatment for a subject s tinnitus.

Objective methods of detecting other disorders having subjective symptoms such as schizophrenia include pre pulse inhibition deficit testing. Schizophrenia has been associated with abnormalities in information processing sometimes referred to as sensory gating failures. Gating generally allows for the screening or filtering of unimportant stimuli in order to respond and process important stimuli and related information. Sensory gating failures of subjects have been evaluated by analyzing the subject s pre pulse inhibition deficit. All mammals respond to sudden intense stimuli reflex stimulus in modalities that consist of a series of flexion and extension responses startle response . In humans startle reflex magnitude diminishes when a weak pre pulse stimulus precedes the reflex stimulus. Although identifying pre pulse inhibition deficits has been advantageous in the detection of sensory gating failures related to schizophrenia comparable tests for detecting the perception of sounds related to tinnitus have not been developed.

Thus a need exists in the testing of both human and animal subjects for a method and apparatus to objectively measure tinnitus.

Embodiments of the present invention overcome one or more deficiencies of conventional practices related to detecting tinnitus by analyzing an electrical response of a subject s brain to a sound pattern. In addition embodiments of the invention advantageously objectively identify an auditory characteristic e.g. frequency intensity pitch of the subject s tinnitus based on the electrical response of the subject s brain to various selected sound patterns which each have a different auditory characteristic.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention effectively detect whether a human or animal subject is afflicted with tinnitus. As described in detail below aspects of the present invention objectively detect and or quantify tinnitus of the subject by measuring and analyzing the subject s response to a sound pattern. In one embodiment the sound pattern is capable of producing an acoustic startle reflex startle . In an alternative embodiment the present invention objectively detects and or characterizes tinnitus of the subject by measuring and analyzing an electrical response of the subject s brain to a sound pattern.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention illustrates an acoustic startle reflex. The acoustic startle reflex present in animals and humans is a response startle response A in the form of a sudden movement to a stimulus reflex stimulus in the form of for example an unexpected loud noise A. Particularly embodiments of the present invention objectively measure a subject s tinnitus by quantifying the subject s startle response and applying the magnitude of the startle response to analyze the subject s gap inhibition and pre pulse inhibition. Gap inhibition illustrated in refers to the inhibition of the subject s acoustic startle reflex e.g. compare startle response A to startle response B due to exposure to a gap in an otherwise constant background acoustic signal B preceding the subject s exposure to a reflex stimulus B. Pre pulse inhibition illustrated in refers to the inhibition of the subject s acoustic startle reflex e.g. compare startle response A to startle response C due to exposing the subject to a weak pre pulse over an otherwise constant background acoustic signal C preceding the subject s exposure to a reflex stimulus C.

When a subject s tinnitus is qualitatively similar to the background acoustic signal a subject s tinnitus prevents the subject from detecting a gap in the background acoustic signal. Aspects of the present invention analyze the subject s startle response since the subject s acoustic startle reflex will not be inhibited when the reflex stimulus is preceded by a gap of sound as would occur in a subject e.g. as illustrated in without tinnitus. According to other aspects of the this embodiment of the present invention a subject s ability to detect a plurality of pre pulses having different sound patterns is a function of the subject s tinnitus and thus the subject s acoustic startle reflex will be inhibited as a function of the subject s tinnitus. Aspects of an alternative embodiment of the present invention analyze the electrical response of the subject s brain to the background acoustic signal and the gap since the gap will not evoke a substantial change in the electrical activity of the subject s brain as would be the case in a subject without tinnitus.

Referring to a device for objectively measuring tinnitus of a human or animal subject embodying aspects of the present invention is illustrated. In general the device includes a controller a generator a transducer and a response sensing device . In one embodiment of the device the controller selects sound patterns to be exposed to the subject. The generator generates signals associated with the sound patterns selected by the controller and the transducer converts the generated signals to the selected sound patterns. The device exposes the selected sound patterns to the subject via the transducer . In turn the response sensing device obtains the subject s response e.g. startle response electrical activity of subject s brain to the sound patterns produced by the transducer and the controller uses the obtained response to measure the subject s tinnitus or lack thereof. As described in detail below the sound patterns may be selected to qualitatively approximate or contrast the sound heard by the subject due to the subject s tinnitus. In this manner embodiments of the invention may be specifically configured for measuring the subject s tinnitus either as a function of the brain s electrical response or as a function of an elicited startle response.

As shown in the controller comprises circuitry for selecting sound patterns recording responses obtained from the subject and analyzing the recorded responses. In one embodiment a control and recording circuit such as a computing device controls the selection and generating of sound patterns and records the resultant subject response data. Exemplary computing devices include one or a combination of the following a personal computer PC a workstation a portable digital device a personal digital assistance PDA a pocket PC and various other digital devices known in the art. As is known to those skilled in the art computing devices include a combination of the following not shown a processing unit one or more computer readable storage media an internal bus system coupling to various components within the computing devices Input Output devices a networking device and other devices. In one alternative embodiment the control and recording circuitry is a control system including a microcontroller and or a programmable logic controller.

The controller as shown in further comprises a storage memory for storing data including data used by the control and recording circuit to select sound patterns subject response data recorded by the control and recording circuit and data used by the control and recording circuit to analyze recorded subject response data. As is known in the art control and recording circuit and the storage memory communicate data via a wired or wireless connection coupling the controller components. In one embodiment the storage memory is included in the control and recording circuit in the form of volatile and or non volatile memory. Internal exemplary storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory and or other internal storage media known in the art. In another embodiment the storage memory is external to the control and recording circuitry . Exemplary external storage media include memory sticks CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disks and or other storage media known in the art.

Referring further to in one embodiment controller further comprises an administrator interface for communicating with a testing administrator and or a subject interface for communicating with the subject. These communications include the control and recording circuit data the data stored in the storage memory for selecting sound patterns and the like. Using the interface a testing administrator initiates for example the selection of a sound pattern for presentation to the subject under test. The control and recording circuit responds using data e.g. program instructions stored in the storage memory which prompt the testing administrator to provide data related to selecting a sound pattern such as the desired type of sound e.g. waveform frequency volume duration and amplitude. The testing administrator provides the information via the interface and control and recording circuit selects the sound pattern according to the provided information. The subject responds to his or her exposure to the selected sound pattern via the subject interface and provides similar information which is used for selecting a second sound pattern based on his perception of the first sound pattern. The control and recording device delivers the information provided by the subject to the testing administrator via the administrator interface .

According to embodiments of the invention the administrator interface may be an input and an output device including a keyboard and a monitor and the subject interface is an input device including a keyboard. In other embodiments the administrator interface and or the subject interface include one or more of the following input devices keyboard mouse trackball pen touch pad microphone joystick gamepad push button touch screen and other input devices known in the art. Additionally the administrator interface and or the subject interface include one or more of the following output devices monitor printer speakers lights and other output devices known in the art.

The control and recording circuit communicates a signal to the generator indicating a selected sound pattern see for example and . Upon receiving the signal indicating the selected pattern from the control and recording circuit the generator generates a signal associated with the selected sound pattern. In one embodiment the selected sound pattern includes a background acoustic signal and a gap in the background acoustic signal. The background acoustic signal has acoustic auditory characteristics e.g. amplitude waveform frequency speed duration volume and other related characteristics such that the background acoustic signal in accordance with aspects of the invention mimics tinnitus sounds e.g. whooshing hissing pulsing buzzing pure tone . The gap in the background acoustic signal includes removing or lowering the volume level of the background acoustic signal so that it is not audible.

According to an embodiment the selected sound pattern also includes a reflex stimulus signal. The reflex stimulus includes a signal such as white noise or a pure tone known in the art to generally elicit an acoustic startle reflex in humans where the subject is a human and likewise in animals where the subject is an animal. In another embodiment the selected sound pattern includes the background acoustic signal a test acoustic signal and or the reflex stimulus signal. The test signal has acoustic characteristics e.g. amplitude wavelength frequency speed duration volume and other related characteristics at least one of which is different from the background signal. For example the test signal has volume which is greater than the volume of the background signal but otherwise has acoustic characteristics identical to those of the background signal. In another example each and every acoustic characteristic of the test signal is different from each and every acoustic characteristic of the background signal. In yet another example the acoustic characteristics of the test signal are limited such that the test signal does not elicit a startle response from the subject.

Referring further to the generator comprises one or more electronic signal generators a volume control a sound mixer and an amplifier . A wired or wireless connection couples the electronic signal generators to corresponding volume controls the corresponding volume controls to the sound mixer and the sound mixer to the amplifier . The electronic signal generators include for example a white noise generator and a multiple pure tone generator for generating sound wave signals associated with a reflex stimulus signal and or a test signal and or a complex waveform generator for generating sound wave signals associated with a background signal and or a test signal. In alternative embodiments alternative or additional electronic signal generators known in the art are used. The electronic generators transmit generated sound wave signals to the corresponding volume controls . The volume controls associate a volume with the generated sound wave signals. The volume controls transmit generated sound waves signals with volume to the sound mixer . The sound mixer receives sound wave signals generated from any of the electronic signal generators and provides the amplifier with the generated wave signal and volume associated with the selected sound pattern or a portion thereof. In an embodiment the wave signal associated with the selected sound pattern is a combination of wave signals generated from multiple electronic signal generators. The sound mixer combines the generated wave signals and provides the amplifier with a combined wave signal associated with the selected sound pattern. The amplifier boosts the wave signal provided by the sound mixer based on the volume associated with the selected sound pattern. In alternative embodiments the generator comprises any device generating sound such as a device comprising a memory or utilizing the storage memory for digitally storing sound patterns e.g. .wav files for selecting a digital signal processor for converting the digitally stored sound patterns to sound waves signals and an amplifier for boosting the sound wave signals.

As shown in the control and recording circuit in one embodiment is coupled to each of the electronic signal generators via a wired or wireless connection. The control and recording circuit selects a sound pattern by sending a signal to one or more of the electronic signal generators which generates sound wave signals associated with the selected sound pattern. In one embodiment the electronic signal generators include a memory for storing data defining sound wave signals associated with particular sound patterns and the electronic signal generator uses the stored data to generate the sound wave signal when a particular sound pattern is selected by the control and recording circuit . For example the complex waveform generator includes a memory for storing a plurality of waveforms associated with the various background acoustic signals e.g. whooshing hissing pulsing buzzing pure tone . The control and recording circuit selects a background acoustic signal e.g. hissing by sending a signal to the memory to retrieve and generate the waveform stored in the memory that is associated with the selected e.g. hissing background sound. In one embodiment the electronic signal generators include a component allowing the control and recording circuit to link and or modify the waveforms stored in the memory and to generate the resulting waveform. For example the complex waveform generator includes a variable frequency clock and a memory sequencer for linking and modifying waveforms stored in the memory. The control and recording circuit selects a background acoustic signal which does not exist in the memory e.g. fast pulse alternating with hissing by sending a signal to the memory to retrieve stored waveform s e.g. waveform associated with pulsing and waveform associated with hissing . The control and recording circuit also sends signals to the variable frequency clock and the memory sequencer to modify the frequency of the pulse waveform and link it with the hissing waveform.

In one embodiment the control and recording circuit is further coupled to the volume controls the sound mixer and the amplifier via a wired or wireless connection. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit sends a signal to the volume control to indicate the volume associated with the selected sound pattern. Similarly the control and recording circuit sends a signal to the sound mixer for indicating the electronic wave generator or of the wave signal associated with the selected sound pattern. The control and recording circuit sends a signal to the amplifier indicating the amplitude and duration wave signal associated with the selected sound pattern.

The amplifier is further coupled to the transducer as shown in . The transducer receives the wave signal associated with the selected sound pattern and converts the wave signal to the selected sound pattern for exposing to the subject . The transducer can be any device such as a speaker known in the art for converting a wave signal to a sound pattern. In one embodiment the transducer may be incorporated into a device s such as headphones for exposing the sound pattern to the subject. The device may include component s to prevent the subject from hearing any sounds other than the sounds provided by the transducer . In one embodiment the device includes multiple generators and corresponding transducers . For example two generators may be used to generate two different sound waves and two transducers are used to convert each of the sound waves generated by each generator to a sound pattern. The transducers may be incorporated into headphones for exposing the sound waves to each of the subject s ears.

In an embodiment the response sensing device is associated with the subject for detecting the subject s startle response to the sound pattern. The response sensing device comprises a response sensor and sensor synchronization circuitry . The response sensor and the sensor synchronization circuitry are coupled via a wired or wireless connection. In one embodiment the response sensing device detects the subject s startle response to the sound pattern by monitoring the subject s eyelid movement and or movement of muscles associated with eyelid movement. The startle reflex in humans is a relatively simple behavioral reflex consisting of a rapid blink of the eyes mediated by the obicularis oculi muscles that can be easily measured by a variety of methods. For example a mechanical lever is attached to one of the subject s eyelids and the response sensor e.g. Hall effect sensor communicates a signal to the synchronization circuitry indicating movement of the lever eyelids. In another example an infra red IR illuminator illuminates the eye and the response sensor detects the reflected light. During eyelid closure more IR light is reflected to the response sensor which is communicated e.g. via an increase in voltage to the synchronization circuitry . In yet another example the response sensor e.g. electromyographic sensor detects the electric potential generated by the muscles associated with the movement of the eyelid and communicates this movement to the synchronization circuitry . In another embodiment the startle reflex is measured using the subject s brain waves associated with the startle reflex. For example the response sensor measures evoked potential changes in the subject s brain wave reflecting a response to the reflex stimulus. In yet another embodiment particularly useful for animal subjects the response sensing device detects the subject s startle response to the sound pattern by monitoring the force associated with movement of the subject s leg muscles on a force sensing platform. When a startle inducing stimulus is presented the rat engages in a reflexive series of muscle flexions and extensions in a variety of muscle groups eyes neck legs etc. the sum of which is measured as force exerted to the floor. For example the subject is placed on a floor and the general movement of the subject is confined. The response sensor detects the force applied to the floor as a result of the subject s leg muscles and relays the data to the synchronization circuitry . The response sensing device communicates the detected startle response to the control and recording circuit and the control and recording circuit measures the subject s tinnitus based on the detected startle response.

According to one embodiment the device is used to objectively measure the subject s tinnitus by testing the subject s gap inhibition. The device tests the subject s gap inhibition by exposing the subject a primary sound pattern having an audible gap in a background sound and then exposing the subject to a reflex stimulus. The audible gap is created in the primary sound pattern by exposing the subject to a background acoustic signal for a first duration and then removing lowering the background acoustic signal for a second shorter duration. The background acoustic signal is selected to qualitatively match the subject s tinnitus. The characteristics of the background sound may be selected based on a number of factors including the hearing range of the subject. For example since the hearing range in humans is much lower in frequency than for rats the frequency of background sounds is selected to have a different frequency for rat subjects than for human subjects. Particularly many humans describe their tinnitus as a high pitched hiss that sounds like a signal in the 3 8 kHz range. Thus for human subjects the background sound may consist of sounds with variable intensity and pattern having a frequency range of 250 Hz to 12 000 Hz. In contrast for rat subjects the frequencies presented may consist of band pass filtered noise centered at various frequencies from 2 50 kHz kilohertz .

The control and recording circuit first selects the background acoustic signal which is qualitatively similar to the subject s tinnitus e.g. hissing sound with a pressure of 65 decibels by sending signals to the generator . Particularly signals are sent to the complex waveform generator the volume control the sound mixer and the amplifier to select a wave signal having volume and amplitude associated with a hissing sound having a pressure of 65 decibels. The wave signal is converted to the selected background acoustic signal by the transducer and exposed to the subject . Second the control and recording circuit selects an alteration of background acoustic signal for creating an audible gap e.g. no sound 0 decibels in the background acoustic signal. The gap is selected by sending signals to the generator indicating no sound wave is to be generated and the subject is accordingly exposed to a gap removal of the background acoustic signal. Alternatively the control and recording circuit selects the gap by sending signals to the volume control the sound mixer and or the amplifier to alter the wave signal associated with the background acoustic signal to for a short duration e.g. 10 100 millisecond . For example the pressure of the background acoustic signal maybe substantially lowered e.g. from 20 decibels to 0 decibels from 60 decibels to 20 decibels so that it is exposed to the subject as a gap in the background pattern. Third the control and recording circuit sends a signal to the response sensing device to begin monitoring the startle response of the subject. Fourth the control and recording circuit selects a reflex stimulus e.g. white noise having a pressure of 110 decibels by sending signals to the generator. Particularly signals are sent to the white noise generator the volume control the sound mixer and the amplifier to select a wave signal having volume and amplitude associated with a white noise stimulus having a pressure of 110 decibels. The wave signal is converted to the selected background acoustic signal by the transducer and exposed to the subject . The response sensing device detects and the subject s startle response.

In addition to quantifiably and objectively measuring tinnitus in the subject aspects of the present invention may be used to detect and qualitatively characterize tinnitus in the subject. For example the test administrator can expose the subject to several different background acoustic signals. Particularly by adjusting the intensity of the background sound from very quiet to relatively loud it would be possible to determine the sound pressure of the subject s tinnitus. For a very quiet tinnitus e.g. 15 dB presenting a silent gap in a moderately loud e.g. 60 dB background acoustic signal will not result in apparent deficits of the subject s startle reflex because the subject s tinnitus at dB does not sufficiently fill the silent gap in the 60 dB background acoustic signal. If however the tinnitus is as loud as the background 60 dB deficits of the subject s startle reflex will be quite apparent. Thus in this example the subject s startle response to the reflex stimulus will be the least inhibited when the background acoustic signal most closely approximates the existing sound perceived by the subject as a result of tinnitus.

According to one embodiment the device is used to objectively measure the subject s tinnitus by testing the subject s pre pulse inhibition for a plurality of pre pulse sounds. The device tests the subject s pre pulse inhibition by exposing the subject a primary sound pattern comprising a background acoustic signal with a first duration and test acoustic signal having a shorter e.g. pulse second duration. The test acoustic signal is unique for each of the plurality of pre pulse sounds but does not in itself elicit the subject s startle response. Particularly the control and recording circuit first selects a background acoustic signal qualitatively similar to the subject s tinnitus e.g. hissing sound with a pressure of 65 decibels . The background acoustic signal is selected by sending a signal to the generator . Specifically signals are sent to the complex waveform generator the volume control the sound mixer and the amplifier to select a wave signal having volume and amplitude associated with a hissing sound having a pressure of 65 decibels. The wave signal is converted to the selected background acoustic signal by the transducer and exposed to the subject . Second the control and recording circuit selects a test acoustic signal by sending signals to the generator . Specifically signals are sent to the complex waveform generator the volume control the sound mixer and the amplifier to select a wave signal having volume and amplitude associated with a hissing sound having a pressure of 75 decibels. The wave signal is converted to the selected test acoustic signal by the transducer and exposed to the subject . Third the control and recording circuit sends a signal to the response sensing device to begin monitoring the startle response of the subject . Forth the control and recording circuit selects a reflex stimulus e.g. white noise having a pressure of 110 decibels by sending signals to the generator . Particularly signals are sent to the white noise generator the volume control the sound mixer and the amplifier to select a wave signal having volume amplitude and duration associated with a white noise stimulus having a pressure of 110 decibels. The wave signal is converted to the selected reflex stimulus sound pattern by the transducer and exposed to the subject . The response sensing device detects the subject s startle response. The four steps are repeated using a unique test acoustic signal in the second step to test the subject s pre pulse inhibition for a second pre pulse sound. Particularly the test acoustic signal is selected to have hissing sound and a pressure of 80 decibels.

According to an embodiment the control and recording circuit uses the subject s startle responses to multiple sound patterns to determine the severity of the subject s tinnitus. For example the control and recording circuit determines the range of sound patterns that are affected by the subject s tinnitus by comparing a the amplitude A of the startle response A to a reflex stimulus A preceded by a first test acoustic signal pre pulse A b the amplitude B of the startle response B to a reflex stimulus B preceded by a second acoustic signal pre pulse B and c the amplitude C of a startle response to a reflex stimulus C not preceded by a pre pulse. In this scenario although the subject was unable to detect the first test acoustic signal A which was 10 dB greater than the background acoustic signal the subject was able to detect the second test acoustic signal B which was 5 dB greater than the first test acoustic signal and 15 dB greater than the background acoustic signal. Since the subject was able to detect the presence of the second test acoustic signal the pre pulse inhibited the subject s acoustic startle reflex quantified by the amplitude B of the startle response such that the ratio amplitude B to C was less than one. Thus the subject has mild tinnitus which affects the subject s perception of a 10 dB range of hissing sound.

In one embodiment the severity of the subject s tinnitus is qualitatively measured by exposing the subject to a plurality of pre pulse sounds and measuring the subject s startle response for each of the plurality of pre pulse sounds. The plurality of pre pulse sounds have varying characteristics e.g. volume frequency amplitude speed wavelength and the like affecting the acoustic qualities e.g. tone sound pressure pattern of the sounds. Each pre pulse sound has one characteristic that differentiates it acoustically from each of the other pre pulse sounds. The control and recording circuit analyzes the amplitudes of each of the subject s startle responses to determine the pre pulse sounds which can and can not be detected by the subject. The control and recording circuit determines that the subject s tinnitus prevents the subject from detecting a particular acoustic characteristic where the subject can detect a first pre pulse sound but can not detect second pre pulse where the particular acoustic characteristic is the only acoustic difference between the first pre pulse sound and the second pre pulse sound. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit additionally determines that the degree to which the subject detects the pre pulse sounds as a function of the ratio of the amplitudes of the subject s responses to a first pre pulse and a second pre pulse sound. By determining whether the subject s tinnitus partially or completely prevents the subject from detecting a plurality of acoustic characteristics the control and recording circuit determines the particular effects of the subject s tinnitus on the subject. The identification of these particular effects is advantageous to treating and coping with tinnitus. For example if a subject s tinnitus prevents the subject from hearing hissing and whooshing sounds at dB the subject will be unable to acoustically detect approaching traffic. Thus the subject will need to take responsive measures to safely travel in traffic areas.

The exemplary flow diagram in illustrates objectively measuring a subject s tinnitus according to one embodiment of the invention. At a background acoustic signal qualitatively similar to the subject s tinnitus is selected. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit selects the background acoustic signal and the selecting of the background acoustic signal includes obtaining data from the subject the testing administrator and or the storage memory and basing the selection of the background acoustic signal on the obtained data.

In an embodiment the selecting of the background acoustic signal at further includes selecting a preliminary acoustic signal exposing the preliminary acoustic signal to the subject and obtaining a response from the subject indicating whether or not the preliminary sound matches the subject s tinnitus. For example the control and recording device displays via the administrator interface a list of available sounds e.g. hissing buzzing pulsing and or characteristics amplitude duration volume frequency speed and the testing administrator indicates a particular acoustic signal. The preliminary sound pattern is exposed to the subject via a transducer or any other sound producing device known in the art. The subject responds to the exposure via the subject interface and may provide feedback information regarding the similarity of the preliminary sound to the subject s tinnitus e.g. higher lower frequency higher lower volume . If the subject responds that the preliminary acoustic signal did not match the subject s tinnitus a different preliminary acoustic signal is selected based on any responses feedback from the subject . The process repeats until the subject identifies a preliminary acoustic signal that is qualitatively similar to the subject s tinnitus. When the subject identifies a preliminary acoustic signal that is substantially similar to the subject s tinnitus that acoustic signal is selected as the background acoustic signal which is used to objectively measure the subject s tinnitus.

As shown in at the subject is aurally exposed to the selected background acoustic signal. A transducer or any other sound producing device known in the art can be used.

At the background acoustic signal is altered and the subject is exposed to the sound resulting from the alteration. The alteration includes changing any characteristics of the sound wave associated with the background acoustic signal including but not limited to amplitude wavelength duration speed frequency volume. In addition the alteration includes removing the background acoustic signal from being exposed to the subject. In one embodiment the background acoustic signal is altered to form a gap. A gap may be formed by removing or lowering the background acoustic signal for a period of time. In another embodiment the background acoustic signal may be altered to include a pre pulse. A pulse may be formed by interrupting the background acoustic signal with a test acoustic signal. The test acoustic signal has at least one acoustic characteristic that distinguishes it from the background acoustic signal.

At a reflex stimulus is selected. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit selects a reflex stimulus and the selecting includes obtaining data from the subject the testing administrator and or the storage memory and basing the selecting of the reflex stimulus on the obtained data. The reflex stimulus can be any sound generally known in the art to elicit a startle response from a human or animal subject.

Referring further to at the subject is exposed to the reflex stimulus to elicit the subject s startle response. A transducer or any other sound producing device known in the art can be used to expose the subject to the stimulus.

At the subject s startle response which was elicited by the reflex stimulus is received. In one embodiment response sensing device detects the subject s startle response sends the detected startle response to the control and recording circuit and the control and recording circuit receives the startle response. The startle response received includes quantifiable data describing the subject s startle response such as the amplitude of the detected startle response signal.

In one embodiment after the subject s startle response is received a control test is performed to gather data describing the subject s startle response to a reflex stimulus where the subject is not exposed to an alteration in background acoustic signal prior to the reflex stimulus. Returning to of a control reflex stimulus is selected. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit selects a control reflex stimulus and the selecting includes obtaining data from the subject the testing administrator and or the storage memory and basing the selecting of the control reflex stimulus on the obtained data. The control reflex stimulus can be any sound generally known in the art to elicit a startle response from a human or animal subject. In one embodiment the control reflex stimulus is qualitatively similar to the reflex stimulus. Returning to the subject is exposed to the control reflex stimulus to elicit the subject s control startle response. Returning to the subject s control startle response which was elicited by the control reflex stimulus is received. In one embodiment the response sensing device detects the subject s control startle response sends the detected control startle response to the control and recording circuit and the control and recording circuit receives the control startle response. The control startle response received includes quantifiable data describing the subject s control startle response such as the amplitude of the detected control startle response signal.

In one embodiment after the subject s startle response is received the test including steps may be repeated. For example the test may be repeated using acoustic signals having different characteristics e.g. different background signal different alteration of background signal different reflex stimulus so that the resulting startle responses can be compared in order to measure the severity of the subject s tinnitus. In another example the test may be repeated in order to verify or correct the resulting startle response to the reflex stimulus. Alternatively the test may be repeated in order to receive the subject s startle response under different conditions e.g. different physical testing conditions during different phases of treatment .

At the subject s ability to detect the alteration of the background acoustic signal is determined based on the subject s startle response. In one embodiment the determination includes comparing a the amplitude of the startle response to a reflex stimulus preceded by an alteration and b the amplitude of a control startle response to a control reflex stimulus. In one embodiment the control and recording circuit determines that the subject has not detected the alteration if the ratio of a to b is equal to one. In this scenario the subject perceives a noise i.e. tinnitus substantially matching the background acoustic signal exposed at so the subject was unable to detect the alteration the background acoustic signal at . Since the subject was unable to detect the alteration the alteration did not inhibit the subject s acoustic startle reflex quantified by the amplitude of the startle response received at . Thus the subject experiences some form of tinnitus. The control and recording circuit determines that the subject detects the alteration in the background acoustic signal if ratio of a to b is less than one. In this scenario although the background acoustic signal was selected at to substantially match the subject s perceived noise tinnitus the subject was able to detect the alteration of the background acoustic signal e.g. the pre pulse at . Since the subject was able to detect the alteration of the background acoustic signal at the alteration did not inhibit the subject s acoustic startle reflex quantified by the amplitude of the startle response received at . Thus the subject does not have tinnitus according to the acoustic characteristics of the exposed signals. In another embodiment amplitudes of various startle responses corresponding to various characteristics of acoustic signals are compared in order to measure the severity of the subject s tinnitus.

According to an alternative embodiment of the present invention the subject s ability to detect the background acoustic signal and alterations thereof is determined based on electrical activity of the subject s central nervous system in response to the sound pattern. Although the electrical activity discussed below refers to a subject s brain activity i.e. electrical neural activity other electrical activity of the subject s central nervous system such as the electrical activity of the subject s spinal cord may be used. illustrates an exemplary device which is configured to measure event related potentials ERPs of a subject s brain. Event related potentials ERPs are small electrical voltage potentials originating from the brain in response to a particular event. The event may be a sensory stimulus e.g. acoustic stimuli or an omission of a stimulus e.g. gap between stimuli . For example Auditory Evoked Potentials AEPs are a type of ERP which originate along the neural pathway in response to an acoustic stimulus e.g. sound pattern . Accordingly AEPs are indicative of a subject s ability to process a sound pattern.

In one embodiment the device of measures tinnitus of a subject by testing whether the subject is deficient in processing an audible silence e.g. audible gap following a background acoustic signal. For example the audible silence in the background acoustic signal includes removing or lowering the volume level of the background acoustic signal so that it is not audible. In particular the subject is exposed to a sound pattern including the background acoustic signal and the audible silence. The background acoustic signal precedes the audible silence. Accordingly the background acoustic signal preceding the audible silence in the sound pattern has a first duration and the audible silence in the sound pattern has a second duration. In one embodiment the background acoustic signal also follows the audible silence. The background acoustic signal following the audible silence has a third duration. The first and third durations are longer than the second duration. For example the subject may be exposed to the background acoustic signal for the first duration e.g. 3 seconds the background acoustic signal may be removed or lowered for the second duration e.g. 100 milliseconds and then returned for the third duration e.g. 3 seconds . If the subject has tinnitus acoustically similar to the background acoustic signal then the subject s tinnitus will at least partially fill the silence and the subject will therefore be deficient in processing the silence in the sound pattern.

Referring further to the embodiment illustrated in device includes a controller a generator a transducer and a sensing device . As discussed above in connection with the device the controller may be configured to control the generation of the sound pattern. In one embodiment the controller includes a control and recording circuit similar to control and recording circuit for sequentially sending signals data to the generator specifying the acoustic characteristics for each duration of the sound pattern. Thus first the control and recording circuit directs the generator to generate select a wave signal having the acoustic characteristics of the background acoustic signal for the first duration. Second the control and recording circuit directs the generator to generate no sound or alternatively to generate select a non audible wave e.g. 0 decibels for the second duration. In one example the generator includes a complex waveform generator a volume control a sound mixer and an amplifier as discussed above in connection with the generator . The transducer creates the sound pattern e.g. sequentially converts each of wave signals to sound and exposes the subject to the sound pattern.

The controller may also be configured to control the sensing device . In one example the controller sends a signal to the sensing device to initiate monitoring the electrical activity of the subject s brain. The sensing device measures the electrical response of the subject s brain to the sound pattern. In one embodiment the sensing device e.g. electroencephalogram sensing device is configured to detect the electrical potentials broadly electrical activity evoked by the subject s brain e.g. auditory evoked potentials according to electroencephalography EEG techniques. illustrates an exemplary electroencephalogram sensing device . The electroencephalogram sensing device includes one or more active electrodes a reference electrode a differential amplifier and an analog to digital converter . The active electrodes are placed on the subject s scalp to detect the electrical potentials evoked by the subject s brain in response to the sound pattern. The reference electrode has a reference potential. Each active electrode is connected to a first input of a differential amplifier . The reference electrode is connected to a second input of the differential amplifier . The differential amplifier is configured to amplify e.g. 1000 100 000 times 60 100 dB voltage gain a voltage difference between the electrical potential detected by the active electrode and the reference potential provided by the reference electrode . The analog to digital converter converts the amplified voltage to a digital signal that represents the measured electrical response of the subject s brain to the sound pattern.

The controller is further configured to receive the measured electrical response via an input signal. is an exemplary flow chart illustrating a method performed by the controller for objectively measuring whether the subject has tinnitus. At the controller receives the input signal representing the electrical response of the subject s brain to the sound pattern. The background acoustic signal of the sound pattern is qualitatively similar to the subject s tinnitus. At the controller stores the received input signal. For example the controller may store the input signal in a storage memory similar to the storage memory discussed in connection with device .

In one embodiment the subject is repeatedly exposed to the sound pattern in order to increase the reliability of the measured response. The EEG sensing device measures the electrical response of the subject s brain to the sound pattern each the sound pattern is exposed to the subject. Accordingly at the controller receives a plurality of input signals. Each input signal represents the electrical neural response of the subject to a single exposure to the sound pattern. The controller is configured to compute an average input signal broadly average electrical response by averaging the received plurality of input signals. At the controller stores the computed average input signal.

As shown in at the controller identifies a first portion of the stored signal e.g. received input signal or computed average input signal that represents the electrical response of the subject s brain to the background acoustic signal. Specifically the first portion of the stored signal includes one or more amplitude values of the stored signal which represent the magnitude of the electrical response of the subject s brain to the background acoustic signal. Similarly at the controller identifies a second portion of the stored signal that represents the electrical response of the subject s brain to the audible silence. Specifically the second portion of the stored signal includes one or more amplitude values of the stored signal which represent the magnitude of the electrical response of the subject s brain to the audible silence.

For example since there is a delay period between the time at which the subject is exposed to an acoustic stimuli and the time at which a response is evoked the second portion of the stored signal may include the amplitude values of the stored signal measured after a pre defined period of time following the subject s initial exposure to the audible silence in the sound pattern. The pre defined period of time is based on an expected delay period for the subject. For example in a human subject the expected delay period for responding to an acoustic stimulus omission is generally between about 20 and 300 milliseconds ms depending on which component of the evoked auditory response is targeted. Accordingly in one embodiment the second portion of the stored signal includes the amplitude value of the stored signal which was measured at a predetermined time e.g. 20 300 ms after the subject was initially exposed to the audible silence in the sound pattern. In another embodiment the second portion of the stored signal includes an average of the amplitude values of the stored signal which were measured within a particular range e.g. between 45 and 55 ms after the subject was initially exposed to the audible silence in the sound pattern. At the controller compares the identified first portion of the stored signal to the identified second portion of the stored signal to objectively determine whether the subject has tinnitus.

Accordingly in one embodiment the controller at computes a gain between the first and second portions of the signal. Such a gain might be computed as a difference score between a short duration e.g. 10 ms snippet of brain activity during the background acoustic signal relative to a similar duration snippet of brain activity well into the audible silence. If the computed gain is greater than or equal to a pre defined threshold value then the controller determines that the subject does not have tinnitus that is acoustically similar to the background acoustic signal. If the computed gain is less than the pre defined threshold value then the controller determines that the subject has tinnitus that is acoustically similar to the background acoustic signal. In one embodiment the controller may additionally or alternatively assess determine the severity of the subject s tinnitus based on the magnitude of the computed gain. In particular a greater magnitude of computed gain in excess of the pre defined threshold value is associated with a greater severity of tinnitus. In one embodiment the controller may render a report for a user that indicates whether the subject is determined to have tinnitus and or the assessed severity of the subject s tinnitus. For example the report may include a statistical likelihood reported as p for probability that the electrical neural response to the audible silence was the same as the electrical neural response to the background acoustic signal. Accordingly the traditional p

According to further aspects of the invention device is additionally or alternatively configured to identify an acoustic characteristic e.g. frequency amplitude waveform of the subject s tinnitus based on the neural electrical response to a sound pattern. is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for identifying an acoustic characteristic of the subject s tinnitus using the device . At step at least one acoustic characteristic of a background acoustic signal is selected e.g. user specified . For example a particular amplitude frequency and or waveform of the background acoustic signal is selected. In one embodiment the device includes a user interface in communication with the transducer for receiving input from a user to select the acoustic characteristic.

The transducer creates a sound pattern S according to the selected acoustic characteristic. In particular the sound pattern S includes the background acoustic signal having the selected acoustic characteristic and an audible silence. The sequence of the sound pattern S includes the background acoustic signal preceding and following the audible silence as discussed above. At the transducer exposes the subject to the sound pattern S . At the sensing device measures the electrical response R of the subject s brain to the sound pattern S as discussed above. The measured electrical response R includes a first portion and a second portion. The first portion represents the electrical response of the subject s brain to the exposure to the background acoustic signal of the sound pattern S . The second portion represents the electrical response of the subject s brain to the exposure to the audible silence in the sound pattern S . The first portion and the second portion of the measured electrical response correspond respectively to the first portion and the second portion of the stored signal discussed in connection with the method . Thus at the controller compares the first portion of the measured electrical response to the second portion of the measured electrical response as discussed in connection with step of method . For example at the controller may compare the magnitude of the first and second portions of the measured response. At the controller determines whether the subject has tinnitus with an acoustic characteristic similar to the selected acoustic characteristic based on the comparison made at .

As shown in at the controller in one embodiment computes a gain between the first and second portions of the measured response R . If the computed gain is greater than or equal to a pre defined threshold value then the controller determines that the subject does not have tinnitus with an acoustic characteristic similar to the selected acoustic characteristic. If the computed gain is less than the pre defined threshold value then the controller determines that the subject has tinnitus with an acoustic characteristic similar to the selected acoustic characteristic.

In one embodiment at the controller also compares the measured electrical response R to a control electrical response. The control electrical response is a measured electrical response to a sound pattern e.g. control sound pattern having a background acoustic signal that is acoustically different from the subject s tinnitus. Specifically the control sound pattern includes the background acoustic signal and an audible silence with the background acoustic signal having the same sequence as the sound pattern exposed to the subject. At the controller determines whether the subject has tinnitus with an acoustic characteristic similar to the selected acoustic characteristic based on the comparison for the first and second portions of the measured electrical response R and on the comparison between the measured electrical response R and the control electrical response. For example the control electrical response may be compared with the measured response R to generate difference scores. Repeated measures of the response R and the control electrical response obtained from repeated exposures of the subject to the sound pattern and the control sound pattern are statistically evaluated to determine whether the two samples differed significantly.

The method illustrated in the exemplary flow chart of additionally includes at adjusting the selected acoustic characteristic based on the comparison made at . Steps and are repeated for another sound pattern e.g. a subsequent sound pattern S . Thus the subject is exposed to the subsequent sound pattern S and an electrical response R of the subject s brain to the exposure of the subsequent sound pattern S is measured. The subsequent sound pattern S includes an adjusted background acoustic signal having the adjusted acoustic characteristic and an audible silence. The sequence of the subsequent sound pattern S includes the adjusted background acoustic signal preceding and following the audible silence as discussed above. At the controller compares the measured electrical response R of the subject s brain the sound pattern S to the electrical response R of the subject s brain to the subsequent sound pattern S . For example the controller may compare the magnitudes of the two electrical responses R and R measured at corresponding times in reference to the subject s exposure to the audible silence in each of the sound patterns S and S .

At the controller determines whether the background acoustic signal having the selected acoustic characteristic more closely approximates the subject s tinnitus than the adjusted background acoustic signal having the adjusted acoustic characteristic. In one example if the compared amplitude of the measured electrical response R is greater than the compared amplitude of the measured electrical response R then the controller determines that the background acoustic signal having the selected acoustic characteristic more closely approximates the subject s tinnitus than the adjusted background acoustic signal having the adjusted acoustic characteristic. If on the other hand the compared amplitude of the measured electrical response R is less than the compared amplitude of the measured electrical response R then the controller determines that the adjusted background acoustic signal having the adjusted acoustic characteristic more closely approximates the subject s tinnitus than the background acoustic signal having the previously selected acoustic characteristic. Based on the determination steps and may be continually repeated until the acoustic characteristic s of the subject s tinnitus have been approximated. In one embodiment the controller may render a report for a user that indicates the determinations made in steps and .

Embodiments of the present invention have several advantages over conventional subjective tinnitus testing including accurately and reliably detecting and measuring tinnitus. Additionally aspects of the present invention can be applied to both humans and animals because it does not rely on the subject s subjective response or previous behavioral training. Appendix A details an application of aspects of the present invention to objectively measure tinnitus in rat subjects. Before applying these aspects to objectively measure tinnitus in the rats the rats were inflicted with tinnitus and tested to ensure the rat subjects indeed experienced tinnitus. Appendix B details the preparation of the rat subjects for use in the experiment of Appendix A. The subject matter of Appendix A and B was presented in Turner Jeremy G. Thomas Brozoski Bauer Carol A. Parrish Jennifer L. Myers Kristin Hughes Larry F. Caspary Donald M. 2006 Gap Detection Deficits in Rats With Tinnitus A Potential Novel Screening Tool 189 193. In addition to illustrating the accuracy and reliability of the present invention the experimental data illustrates advantages of using the apparatus and methodology described herein to objectively measure tinnitus in animal subjects. The advantages include a food or water deprivation is not necessary b no training learning memory or motivational demands are placed on the animal c the startle neural circuit is well known and its modulation using background sounds has been studied extensively Koch Schnitzler 1997 Swerdlow Braff Geyer 1999 Swerdlow Geyer Braff 2001 and d testing can be done quickly in a single 40 minute session allowing rapid assessment of acute manipulations. See Turner et al. Gap Detection Deficits in Rats With Tinnitus A Potential Novel Screening Tool 188 .

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

We hypothesized that when the background sound in which the gap is embedded is qualitatively similar to an animal s tinnitus poorer detection of the silent gap would occur. Data presented here confirm that rats with independent evidence of tinnitus at 10 kHz compared with controls demonstrate difficulty detecting a silent gap in a 10 kHz background sound.

The rats used to conduct this experiment were obtained from Brozoski Bauer and Myers and testing relating to the Brozoski Bauer and Myers technique discussed in this experiment was performed by Brozoski Bauer and Myers. The experimental protocol was approved by the Southern Illinois University School of Medicine Laboratory Animal Care and Use Committee.

Thirty one young adult male Long Evans rats were used to conduct the experiment. All rats were obtained from Harlan Indianapolis Ind. and were approximately 10 to 11 months old with a mean weight of 350 g at the time of gap detection testing. Rats were individually housed within a colony room maintained at 25 C. and with a 12 hr reversed light dark schedule.

Various statistical methods were used to analyze data gathered during the experiment. Particularly the F distribution and the t distribution are used in this Appendix A and Appendix B to discuss the experimental data. The F distribution is a statistical measure of the spread or scattering of members of two observed random samples as a test of whether the samples have the same variability. The F distribution is obtained by taking the ratio of the chi square distributions of the samples divided by the number of their degrees of freedom. The F distribution is represented using the notation F degrees of freedom of numerator degrees of freedom of denominator wherein a p value represents the probability of samples having values which are not represented in the F distribution. The t distribution is a theoretical probability distribution it is symmetrical bell shaped and similar to the standard normal curve but includes a degrees of freedom parameter. The t distribution is represented using notation t degrees of freedom wherein a p value represents the probability of having values which are not represented in the t distribution.

After determining that trauma rats displayed operant evidence of tinnitus in the 10 kHz range we began gap detection testing for tinnitus. Testing was conducted using Hamilton Kinder startle reflex hardware and software customized for this application by the manufacturer formally Hamilton Kinder LLC and now Kinder Scientific LLC Powny Calif. . The system was comprised of Hamilton Kinder StartleMonitor System Model SM1000 StartleMonitor Station Model SM1000 and auxiliary amplifier AUXAMP . Gap detection testing was conducted with background noise presented through a Pioneer speaker Model A1365 located in the door wall and startle stimuli presented through a speaker located in the ceiling of the testing chamber 15 cm above the animal s head. The floor of the chamber attached to a piezo transducer provided a measure of startle force applied to the floor. A clear polycarbonate animal holder with holes cut for sound passage was suspended above the floor allowing the rat to freely turn around while minimizing excessive movement. An adjustable height roof was set to a level that kept rats from rearing up a behavior that adds variability to the startle response.

Background signals in the startle chamber consisted of BBN or bandpass filtered noise centered at 10 kHz 9.5 10.5 kHz bandpass 48 dB octave roll off Krohn Hite Model 3988 or 16 kHz 15.5 16.5 kHz band pass . The three test conditions were run sequentially each lasting approximately 12 minutes. Rats remained in the chambers between tests. Test stimuli were calibrated at 60 dB SPL peak levels with a cloth model rat and a Bruel and Kjaer Pulse System with a 0.5 in. free field microphone Bruel Kjaer Model 4191 . Baseline noise levels in the test chamber with background test noise turned off were measured between 42 and 52 dB SPL in the 2 36 kHz range. The order of presentation for the three test conditions was counterbalanced across rats to control order effects. Other than the acoustic features of the background stimulus the three consecutive 10 min test conditions were identical. Each test consisted of 24 trials presented with a 20 s variable intertrial interval. Each session began with a 2 min acclimation period followed by two trials consisting of an abrupt startle eliciting noise burst 115 dB SPL 20 ms duration which served to habituate the startle response to a more stable baseline. Data from the two initial trials were not used in the detection analysis. The remainder of the session consisted of 10 additional startle only trials pseudorandomly mixed with 12 gap trials. Gap trials were identical to startle only trials except for the inserted gap. Gaps always began 100 ms before the startle stimulus were 50 ms in duration and were shaped with a 0.1 ms rise fall gate. Previous work showed that 50 ms gaps beginning 100 ms before a startle stimulus produced stable asymptotic levels of gap induced inhibition of the startle reflex in rats Turner et al. 2005 Association for Research in Otolaryngology Abstract . Previous startle literature suggests that startle testing does not cause temporary or permanent threshold elevations in mice. Turner Willott 1998 . A pilot experiment using the present equipment and stimulus settings revealed no pre to post treatment testing ABR threshold shifts in Long Evan rats either immediately F 1 14 0.77 p 0.40 or 1 week after startle testing F 1 14 0.32 p 0.58.

Rats with prior independent evidence of tinnitus at 10 kHz exhibited significantly worse gap detection than controls when the gaps were embedded in a 10 kHz background. This finding lends validity to the present gap detection method for measuring tinnitus. No significant gap detection differences were found between tinnitus and control rats with either the 16 kHz or BBN backgrounds. These results support the hypothesis that an animal with tonal tinnitus will show impaired gap detection in an acoustic environment with features resembling its tinnitus.

The gap detection results suggest that rats with independent evidence of tinnitus in the kHz region were deficient in detecting a silent 50 ms duration gap in a 10 kHz background stimulus. The noise floor in the chamber was measured between 42 and 52 dB SPL in. the 2 36 kHz range suggesting that the silent gap in the 60 dB SPL background noise might be better described as a partially filled gap with a drop in the overall background noise by 8 18 dB SPL in the frequency range of the test stimulus 10 kHz 16 kHz or BBN . In essence the gap was already partially filled with environmental noise and internal ringing i.e. tinnitus served to further fill the gap in tinnitus rats.

Prior to gap detection testing rats were trained acoustically traumatized then tested for tinnitus using Bauer and Brozoski s methods see Bauer et al. 1999 Bauer Brozoski 2001 Brozoski Bauer. Caspary 2002 . The procedure was used to establish the presence of tinnitus at 10 kHz in the experimental rats and to enable a comparison with the present gap detection technique. Briefly rats were behaviorally trained in individual operant conditioning chambers to lever press for food when any acoustic stimulus was present and to suppress lever pressing during stimulus off periods. A variety of background sounds were used during 1 min test periods in each hour long session including broadband noise BBN and different pure tones of variable intensity. When the rats failed to suppress lever pressing to a criterion in a stimulus off period they were given a 1 s 0.5 mA footshock at the end of that silent period. The critical discrimination for the rats was to distinguish between the absence of sound when an end of period footshock was contingent on behavior and the presence of any sound when footshock was never given .

The rats were then divided into two groups equally matched in terms of discrimination performance across all stimulus conditions. Half of them received a unilateral 16 kHz octave band noise exposure and the other half served as controls. The rats were anesthetized with an intramuscular injection of ketamine HCL 50 mg kg and xylazine 9 mg kg mixture placed in a modified stereotaxic head frame and unilaterally left ear exposed to octave band noise with a peak intensity of 116 dB sound pressure level SPL centered at 16 kHz see for 1 hr. All sound intensities are reported as unweighted SPLs at 20 Pa. Output from a high frequency speaker 40 1398 Realistic RadioShack Fort. Worth Tex. was directed into the left ear using a 3 mm cone shaped speculum that fit tightly into the external auditory canal. Such treatment had previously been shown to produce temporary threshold shifts and evidence of chronic tinnitus in rats Bauer et al. 1999 Bauer Brozoski 2001 . Posttrauma psychophysical testing resumed 1 week after noise exposure and continued periodically for over 2 months after trauma. Use of these procedures has shown that animals exposed to acoustic trauma routinely suppress lever pressing at a higher rate than controls during the 10 kHz but not other test condition. This is used as evidence that a 10 kHz tinnitus is present serving to augment the response to the kHz background.

Hearing thresholds for clicks and tone bursts at 10 16 20 24 and 32 kHz were estimated using ABR. ABR thresholds were obtained before and after trauma as well as at the end of the experiment Intelligent Hearing Systems high frequency system Miami Fla. . Subdermal stainless steel recording electrodes were inserted posterior to each pinna with a reference electrode located at dorsal cranial midline and a ground electrode located in a rear leg. ABR thresholds were obtained for clicks and tone bursts 5 ms in duration presented at a rate of 50 s. Tone bursts were gated using an exact Blackman envelope 2.5 ms rise decay O ms plateau . Evoked potentials were amplified 200 filtered 100 3 000 Hz bandpass and averaged over 1 024 sweeps.

To determine the effects of unilateral threshold elevations on gap detection performance we tested a group of 5 control nontraumatized. normal hearing rats for gap detection with and without a foam earplug. Rats were first tested under normal conditions for gap detection as described above. They were then removed from the test chamber and a foam earplug was inserted unilaterally into their left external auditory canal and temporarily held in place using a drop of ethyl cyanoacrylate. The rats were then returned to the test chamber and retested for gap detection. Following the earplug gap detection session the animals were anesthetized and ABR thresholds were obtained to determine hearing in the plugged ear. Unilateral ABRs were first done with the earplug in place and repeated after removing the earplug from the canal.

Psychophysical testing using Bauer and Brozoski s method confirmed the presence of tinnitus in animals exposed to acoustic trauma. Trauma animals exhibited significant evidence of tinnitus at 8 to 9 weeks posttrauma by responding at a higher rate than controls during the 10 kHz test conditions t 25 2.23 p 0.03 see . No significant differences between trauma and control animals were present in the control BBN condition in any time period. presents the corresponding ABR thresholds for tinnitus and control rats immediately before noise trauma immediately after trauma and approximately 4 months after trauma near the time of gap detection testing. Temporary threshold shifts were seen for clicks and all frequencies tested. However at the time of behavioral gap detection testing 4 months later ABR thresholds had recovered considerably and were not significantly different from pretest levels at the suspected tinnitus frequency of 10 kHz. t 13 1.10 p 0.29.

Because each of the rats tested for gap detection was previously trained and tested for tinnitus using Bauer and Brozoski s operant method Bauer et al 1999 Bauer Brozoskl 2001 direct comparison between the two measures was possible. compares the kHz performance of each rat using the two methods. There was a significant positive correlation between the 10 kHz results obtained from the two methods r 0.753 F 1 25 32.78 p

Additional studies were undertaken to address whether gap detection deficits at 10 kHz in tinnitus rats could be explained by a unilateral hearing loss. In some rats ABR threshold fully recovered to pretrauma control levels whereas in other rats partial threshold elevations remained. depicts gap detection performance as a function of ABR threshold recovery in trauma animals. These data show that for the 5 rats with fully recovered ABR threshold gap detection deficits were clearly present at 10 kHz t 16 1.76 p 0.049. For the 6 rats whom ABR thresholds failed to fully recover significant gap detection deficits were found not only at 10 kHz but also at 10 kHz exposure frequency t 9 1.95 p 0.04.

Gap detection performance was also assessed at 10 kHz in 5 control rats with and without a unilateral foam earplug inserted to produce a temporary unilateral conductive hearing loss. ABR thresholds at 10 kHz were measured immediately after gap testing first with the plug in place and again after removal. The ear plug produced a mean ipsilateral threshold elevation of 22 dB SPL range 5 35 dB but as depicted in had no significant impact on 10 kHz gap detection performance. For purposes of comparison note that tinnitus in rats displayed only a modest non significant threshold elevation of about 6 dB see .

As all rats in the present study had been previously trained for several months to discriminate silence from BBN and pure gates it was possible that the current gap detection findings were affected by the additional training although control rats received the same training To test this hypothesis we conducted additional gap detection testing using four rats that had never been behaviorally trained. Two of the rats were exposed to the same trauma stimulus that produced tinnitus in the previously described behaviorally trained rats and two served as controls. shows the data from these four rats approximately 3 months after sound exposure. Similar to the data from trained rats see data from the exposed rats exhibited clear evidence of tinnitus at 10 kHz but did not differ from controls at 16 kHz.

The selectivity of the findings negative results at 16 kHz and BBN suggest that worse gap detection at 10 kHz in tinnitus rats cannot easily be explained by either hearing loss or generally degraded performance. Maximum hearing loss was evident in trauma exposed subjects at 16 kHz at which no significant gap detection differences were obtained between trauma and control subjects. If hearing loss alone were to explain these results the major difference between tinnitus and control rats would have been expected at 16 kHz not at 10 kHz. In addition the 10 kHz gap detection deficit was still evident when we compared control rats to tinnitus rats with fully recovered ABR thresholds at the time of testing. Hearing loss also seems an unlikely explanation given the finding that a unilateral earplug producing a threshold shift of 2.2 dB greater than that found in tinnitus rats did not produce gap detection deficits at 10 kHz. The earplug data further suggest that one fully functional ear is sufficient for perforating gap detection at control levels.

