---

title: Surface protective film, transfer member, image forming apparatus, and method for forming image
abstract: A surface protective film includes a self-healing urethane resin and a conductive powder. In the surface protective film, the content of the conductive powder is about 5 vol % or more and about 25 vol % or less relative to the volume of the urethane resin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146506&OS=09146506&RS=09146506
owner: FUJI XEROX CO., LTD.
number: 09146506
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130122
---
This application is based on and claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2012 056996 filed Mar. 14 2012 and 2012 179472 filed Aug. 13 2012.

The present invention relates to a surface protective film a transfer member an image forming apparatus and a method for forming an image.

A surface protective film has been conventionally disposed to suppress formation of scratches on a surface in various fields. Such a surface protective film is used for for example a screen and body of portable devices such as cellular phones and portable gaming devices a body and door knob of automobiles the exterior of a piano a protective film for protecting an intermediate transfer body or the like in image forming apparatuses.

An image forming apparatus including an intermediate transfer body will now be described. A process for visualizing image information using an electrostatic latent image such as an electrophotographic process is now being utilized in various fields. In the electrophotographic process image information is visualized through a charging and exposing step latent image forming step of forming a latent image electrostatic latent image on an image carrier a developing step of developing the electrostatic latent image with a developer for developing electrostatic latent images hereinafter may be simply referred to as developer the developer containing a toner for developing electrostatic latent images hereinafter may be simply referred to as toner a transferring step and a fixing step.

Various transferring processes for transferring a toner image such as corotron discharge and contact transfer have been employed. In the contact transfer a method that uses a conductive roller or belt composed of a polyurethane including conductive particles such as carbon particles dispersed therein has been developed.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a surface protective film including a self healing urethane resin and a conductive powder wherein a content of the conductive powder is about 5 vol or more and about 25 vol or less relative to the volume of the urethane resin.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described below. This exemplary embodiment is an example of conducting the present invention and the present invention is not limited to this exemplary embodiment.

A surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment includes a self healing urethane resin and a conductive powder whose content is 5 vol or more and 25 vol or less or about 5 vol or more and about 25 vol or less relative to the volume of the urethane resin.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used without being limited for products in which scratches are formed on the surface while at the same time electrostatic charge is generated due to contact with foreign matter.

Examples of the products in which scratches are formed on the surface while at the same time electrostatic charge is generated due to contact with foreign matter include a screen and body of portable devices such as cellular phones and portable gaming devices a body and door knob of automobiles the exterior of a piano a transfer member in image forming apparatuses and a hanger.

The screen and body of portable devices such as cellular phones and portable gaming devices may become scratched as a result of contact with and rubbing against the tips nails of fingers or the tip of a control stick. Furthermore static electricity builds up on the screen and body as a result of rubbing against for example a cloth in a bag or a clothes pocket and thus dust easily adheres to the screen and body.

The body and door knob of automobiles are exposed to an outdoor environment and thus may become scratched due to various factors such as contact with sand leaves branches and the like that are carried by wind and contact with insects. Furthermore static electricity builds up due to exposure to an outdoor environment and thus dust easily adheres to the body and door knob. In particular when a person touches a door knob being charged with static electricity the static electricity is discharged.

The exterior of a piano may become scratched as a result of contact with musical instruments being played by other players or contact with various objects caused when the piano itself is moved. Furthermore the exterior of a piano is often wiped with a dry cloth when cleaning. Static electricity builds up as a result of rubbing with the dry cloth and thus dust easily adheres to the exterior.

The transfer member in image forming apparatuses may become scratched as a result of contact with and rubbing against recording media such as paper and other members in image forming apparatuses. Furthermore static electricity builds up due to repeated contact and detachment of the transfer member with recording media such as paper and thus dust easily adheres to the transfer member.

In addition to the above examples if an object having a surface in contact with foreign matter rubs against other objects scratches are formed on the surface of a surface protective film and static electricity builds up on the surface due to rubbing against the foreign matter.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment includes a self healing urethane resin. It is believed that such a self healing urethane resin does not directly react to the impact but flexibly yields once to reduce the impact and then bends back with its high elastic force resulting in recovery to the original state. In other words it is believed that high scratch resistance difficulty in formation of scratches and high scratch healing speed restoration of formed scratches are achieved. By applying a surface protective film including the self healing urethane resin to the surface of an object on which scratches are likely to be formed as a result of contact with foreign matter even when the object is rubbed against foreign matter the formation of scratches is suppressed because of the high scratch resistance and the high scratch healing speed.

Since the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment includes a conductive powder high conductivity is imparted. Therefore it is believed that electrostatic charge is efficiently suppressed and thus the adhesion of dust is efficiently suppressed.

When an additive such as a conductive powder is added to the self healing urethane resin the self healing property tends to decrease in general. However the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment contains a conductive powder at the above described ratio. Therefore electrostatic charge is suppressed and an excellent self healing property is produced and consequently it is believed that the adhesion of dust is suppressed and the formation of scratches permanent scratches permanently left on the surface is sufficiently suppressed.

In particular in the transfer member in an image forming apparatus voltage is applied when an image forming material e.g. toner is transferred from the surface of an electrostatic latent image carrier such as a photoconductor which sometimes generates discharge between the electrostatic latent image carrier and the transfer member. Voltage is also applied when an image forming material on the transfer member is transferred onto a recording medium such as paper which also sometimes generates discharge between the transfer member and a member facing the transfer member with the recording medium therebetween. The transfer member degrades due to the repetition of such discharge which shortens the life of the transfer member.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment includes the self healing urethane resin and the conductive powder at the above described ratio relative to the urethane resin. Therefore in the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment high conductivity is imparted and an excellent self healing property is produced and thus it is believed that the formation of scratches as a result of contact with and rubbing against a recording medium is suppressed and the discharge degradation is sufficiently suppressed.

Since a self healing material has high elasticity such a self healing material is useful in the application to embossed paper or the like.

For the purpose of producing an excellent self healing property suppressing electrostatic charge and more efficiently suppressing discharge degradation the content of the conductive powder is preferably 8 mass or more and 30 mass or less or about 8 mass or more and about 30 mass or less relative to the mass of the urethane resin.

The urethane resin in this exemplary embodiment includes at least one of a structural unit containing silicone and a structural unit containing a fluorine atom. Therefore high releasability is imparted to the surface protective film that has resistance to scratches and is excellent in suppression of electrostatic charge.

The self healing property is a property of restoring the original state of an object undergoing distortion when stress causing the distortion is unloaded. Specifically the self healing property in this specification means that the restoration ratio determined by the following measurement method is 80 or more or about 80 or more.

The restoration ratio of the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is preferably 90 or more and 100 or less or about 90 or more and about 100 or less.

FISCHERSCOPE HM2000 manufactured by Fischer Instruments K.K. is used as a measurement device for the restoration ratio. A coating solution for forming surface protective films is applied onto a polyimide film and polymerized to form a sample surface protective film. The sample surface protective film is fixed on a slide glass with an adhesive and the slide glass is set in the measurement device. A load is applied to the sample surface protective film up to 0.5 mN at a particular measurement temperature over 15 seconds and held at 0.5 mN for 5 seconds. The maximum displacement at this timing is defined as h1 . Subsequently the load is decreased to 0.005 mN over 15 seconds and held at 0.005 mN for 1 minute. The displacement at this timing is defined as h2 . The restoration ratio is calculated from the formula h1 h2 h1 100 .

The temperature at which the self healing property is produced in the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment self healing temperature at which the restoration ratio is 80 or more or about 80 or more may be any temperature as long as the temperature is in a temperature range in which a resin constituting the surface protective film maintains the form of the surface protective film. Therefore the particular measurement temperature in the method for measuring the restoration ratio is any temperature in the above described temperature range.

For the purpose of more efficiently healing scratches the self healing temperature of the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is preferably 10 C. or more and 100 C. or less more preferably 10 C. or more and 80 C. or less and particularly preferably 10 C. or more and 50 C. or less.

Even in the case where the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is left at a temperature other than the self healing temperature scratches are suitably healed by taking a longer time e.g. more than one minute when a load is applied under the same conditions as the method for measuring the restoration ratio to form scratches .

For the purpose of more efficiently healing scratches the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is preferably used at the temperature at which a self healing property is produced self healing temperature at which the restoration ratio is 80 or more or about 80 or more .

Heat may be applied to the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment by a method for externally applying heat such as a method in which hot air is provided using a hot air blower such as a dryer a method in which frictional heat is provided by rubbing the surface of the surface protective film with a cloth a method in which the surface protective film is detached once immersed in hot water and pasted again and a method in which the surface protective film is detached once inserted into a heating furnace and pasted again. In the method for applying heat the surface protective film may be heated to the self healing temperature.

The conductive powder in this exemplary embodiment is added to the urethane resin at the above described volume ratio so that the surface resistivity of the surface protective film is controlled within the range of 1 10 sq. or more and 1 10 sq. or less.

The conductive powder included in the surface protective film is not particularly limited as long as the above requirement is satisfied. Examples of the conductive powder include carbon blacks such as Ketjenblack and acetylene black graphite metals and alloys such as aluminum nickel and copper alloys metal oxides such as titanium oxide tin oxide zinc oxide potassium titanate a complex oxide of tin oxide and indium oxide and a complex oxide of tin oxide and antimony oxide and conductive polymers such as polyaniline polypyrrole polysulfone and polyacetylene. Among them carbon black and titanium oxide are preferably used and carbon black is more preferably used in terms of control of resistance. These conductive powders may be used alone or in combination of two or more.

The content of the conductive powder in the surface protective film is 5 vol or more and 25 vol or less or about 5 vol or more and about 25 vol or less and preferably 7 vol or more and 15 vol or less or about 7 vol or more and about 15 vol or less relative to the volume of the self healing urethane resin. If the content of the conductive powder is less than the lower limit desired conductivity is not achieved. If the content is more than the upper limit the self healing function of the surface protective film is degraded because the cross linking of the self healing material is inhibited.

In terms of mass ratio the content of the conductive powder in the surface protective film is preferably 8 mass or more and 30 mass or less or about 8 mass or more and about 30 mass or less and more preferably 10 mass or more and 20 mass or less or about 10 mass or more and 20 mass or less relative to the mass of the self healing urethane resin for the purpose of achieving both desired conductivity and self healing function.

The average particle size of the conductive powder in the surface protective film is preferably 10 nm or more and 30 nm or less or about 10 nm or more and about 30 nm or less and more preferably 15 nm or more and 25 nm or less or about 15 nm or more and about 25 nm or less. When the average particle size of the conductive powder is 10 nm or more the conductive powder is appropriately dispersed. When the average particle size is 30 nm or less proper electrical connection is established without impairing the self healing function.

The average particle size of the conductive powder is measured using a transmission electron microscope H 9000 manufactured by Hitachi High Technologies Corporation . The average particle size is an average of particle sizes of 100 particles measured. The particle size mentioned in this specification is measured by the above method.

The surface resistivity of the surface protective film including the conductive powder is preferably 1 10 sq. or more and 1 10 sq. or less. The volume resistivity of the surface protective film is preferably 1 10 cm or more and 1 10 cm or less.

The surface resistivity and volume resistivity are measured in conformity with JIS K 6911 in an environment of 22 C. and 55 RH using HIRESTA UPMCP 450 type UR Probe manufactured by DIA INSTRUMENTS Co. Ltd.

The composition of the self healing urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment will be described. The self healing urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment is produced by polymerization of a hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin and an isocyanate.

The self healing urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment may be highly cross linked. The phrase highly cross linked means that the hydroxyl value of a prepolymer is 50 mgKOH g or more and 400 mgKOH g or less and 90 or more of hydroxyl groups contribute to a urethane bond.

Monomers for forming the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin are divided into 1 ethylenic monomers having a hydroxyl group 2 ethylenic monomers having a carboxyl group and 3 ethylenic monomers that have no hydroxyl groups but are copolymerized with the monomers 1 and 2 . Examples of the monomers 1 include hydroxymethyl meth acrylate hydroxyethyl meth acrylate hydroxypropyl meth acrylate hydroxybutyl meth acrylate and N methylol acrylamide. Examples of the monomers 2 include meth acrylic acid crotonic acid itaconic acid fumaric acid and maleic acid. Examples of the monomers 3 include alkyl meth acrylates such as methyl meth acrylate ethyl meth acrylate propyl meth acrylate butyl meth acrylate n propyl meth acrylate n butyl meth acrylate isobutyl meth acrylate 2 ethylhexyl meth acrylate n octyl meth acrylate and n dodecyl meth acrylate.

To achieve the above described cross linking density the hydroxyl value of the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin is preferably 50 mgKOH g or more and 400 mgKOH g or less or about 50 mgKOH g or more and about 400 mgKOH g or less.

The self healing property of the surface protective film is controlled by adjusting the amount of side chain hydroxyl group having less than 10 carbon atoms short side chain hydroxyl group in the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin the amount of side chain hydroxyl group having 10 or more carbon atoms long side chain hydroxyl group and the type and amount of cross linking agent. In particular a hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin having no long side chain hydroxyl groups or a hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin in which the ratio A A B of the molar quantity A of the short side chain hydroxyl group to the total of the molar quantity A and the molar quantity B of the long side chain hydroxyl group is 80 or more or about 80 or more may be used. The ratio A A B is preferably 90 or more or about 90 or more.

Herein a side chain having less than 10 carbon atoms is defined as a short side chain and a side chain having 10 or more carbon atoms is defined as a long side chain . The number of carbon atoms of the short side chain is preferably 6 or less.

When the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin has the long side chain hydroxyl group a monomer obtained by adding caprolactone to 3 5 mol hydroxymethyl meth acrylate may be used as the monomer for forming the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin. One or more of hydroxyl group containing acrylic resins may be used.

The hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin may have a bulky group. The bulky group is a substituent that causes steric hindrance. The presence of such a bulky group restricts the rotational motion or the like because portions constituting molecules intramolecularly and intermolecularly interfere with each other. Examples of the bulky group include isobornyl dicyclopentadiene isobornyloxyethyl dicyclopentenyl cyclohexyl an isopropyl group a t butyl group and a phenyl group.

A hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin obtained by polymerizing the following monomer having a bulky group is preferably used because the presence of a bulky group increases the hardness for example. Examples of the monomer having a bulky group include isobornyl meth acrylate dicyclopentadiene meth acrylate isobornyloxyethyl meth acrylate dicyclopentenyl meth acrylate and cyclohexyl meth acrylate.

The hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin may contain a fluorine atom. Examples of the acrylic resin containing a fluorine atom include copolymers obtained by polymerizing monomers such as 2 perfluorobutyl ethyl acrylate 2 perfluorohexyl ethyl acrylate 2 perfluorohexyl ethyl methacrylate and perfluorohexylethylene. The content of the fluorine atom is 5 mass or more and 50 mass or less relative to the total mass of the urethane resin. When the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin contains a fluorine atom a surface protective film having high releasability is produced.

For the purpose of suppressing discharge degradation controlling the restoration ratio within the above described range and suppressing electrostatic charge the self healing urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment is desirably a urethane resin formed by polymerizing at least the following compositions a b and c or a urethane resin formed by polymerizing at least the following compositions a and c .

 a Hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin which has a hydroxyl value of 50 mgKOH g or more and 400 mgKOH g or less or about 50 mgKOH g or more and about 400 mgKOH g or less and in which the ratio A A B of the molar quantity A of the short side chain hydroxyl group to the total of the molar quantity A and the molar quantity B of the long side chain hydroxyl group is 80 or more or about 80 or more note that the long side chain hydroxyl group may be not included 

 a Acrylic resin which has a hydroxyl value of 50 mgKOH g or more and 400 mgKOH g or less or about 50 mgKOH g or more and about 400 mgKOH g or less and contains the compound represented by general formula 2 below as one of monomers in an amount of 1 mass or more and 50 mass or less and in which the ratio A A B of the molar quantity A of the short side chain hydroxyl group to the total of the molar quantity A and the molar quantity B of the long side chain hydroxyl group is 80 or more or about 80 or more note that the long side chain hydroxyl group may be not included 

In the general formula 1 Rrepresents an amino group a hydroxyl group a methoxy group or an ethoxy group Rrepresents a methyl group a phenyl group or an ethyl group and n is not particularly limited but is preferably 3 or more and 1000 or less.

In the general formula 2 Rrepresents an amino group a hydroxyl group a methoxy group or an ethoxy group Rrepresents a methyl group a phenyl group or an ethyl group n is not particularly limited but is preferably 3 or more and 1000 or less and m is not particularly limited but is preferably 3 or more and 1000 or less.

The urethane resin formed by polymerizing at least the above compositions a b and c or the urethane resin formed by polymerizing at least the above compositions a and c are obtained through the polymerization of the above compositions a b and c or the above compositions a and c and the hydroxyl value of the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a or the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a is within the above described range. Therefore it is believed that the cross linking density is high and thus the resistance to discharge degradation is high. It is also believed that such a urethane resin does not directly react to an impact e.g. an impact caused by contact with a recording medium such as paper in a use environment but flexibly yields once to reduce the impact and then bends back with its high elastic force resulting in recovery to the original state. That is such a urethane resin is believed to have high resistance to discharge degradation high scratch resistance difficulty in formation of scratches and high scratch healing speed restoration of formed scratches . Furthermore such a urethane resin is obtained through the polymerization of the silicone b or the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a having a silicone chain as its side chain. Therefore it is believed that a good sliding property high scratch resistance in a use environment and high heat resistance are achieved. This also provides a surface protective film having high releasability.

In the urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment the mass ratio of a monomer having a silicone chain Si O to all monomers used when the urethane resin is polymerized is 1 mass or more and 50 mass or less. For example when the urethane resin is formed by polymerizing the above compositions a b and c the mass ratio mentioned herein is the mass ratio of the silicone monomer b to all monomers. When the urethane resin is formed by polymerizing the above compositions a and c the mass ratio mentioned herein is the mass ratio of a monomer having a silicone chain Si O among monomers used to synthesize the acrylic resin a relative to all monomers. When the urethane resin is formed by polymerizing the above compositions a b and c the mass ratio mentioned herein is the mass ratio of the silicone monomer b and a monomer having a silicone chain Si O among monomers used to synthesize the acrylic resin a relative to all monomers.

The restoration ratio is controlled by adjusting for example the amount of the silicone the amount of the silicone chain in the acrylic resin and the type and amount of cross linking agent. In particular when the urethane resin is formed by polymerizing the above compositions a b and c or the above compositions a and c the restoration ratio is controlled by adjusting for example the amount of the long side chain hydroxyl group and the amount of the short side chain hydroxyl group.

When the long side chain hydroxyl group is not included or the ratio A A B is 80 or more or about 80 or more a urethane resin having high resistance to discharge degradation is produced. The ratio A A B is preferably 90 or more or about 90 or more.

When the hydroxyl value is equal to or more than the lower limit a urethane resin having high cross linking density is polymerized resulting in a urethane resin having high resistance to discharge degradation. When the hydroxyl value is equal to or lower than the upper limit a urethane resin having appropriate flexibility is produced. The hydroxyl value is preferably 70 mgKOH g or more and 280 mgKOH g or less or about 70 mgKOH g or more and about 280 mgKOH g or less.

The hydroxyl value represents the number of milligrams of potassium hydroxide required to acetylate a hydroxyl group in 1 g of a sample. In this exemplary embodiment the hydroxyl value is measured by a method potentiometric titration provided in JIS K 0070 1992. When a sample is not dissolved a solvent such as dioxane or THF is used.

The hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin in this exemplary embodiment is synthesized by for example mixing the monomers described above performing typical radical polymerization or ionic polymerization and then purifying the obtained polymer.

In this exemplary embodiment at least one of at least one silicone b selected from the compounds represented by the general formula 1 and at least one hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a selected from the compounds having a silicone chain as its side chain and represented by the general formula 2 is used as silicone.

As described above in the general formulae 1 and 2 Rrepresents an amino group a hydroxyl group a methoxy group or an ethoxy group. Among them a hydroxyl group or a methoxy group is preferred in terms of reactivity or the like. Rrepresents a methyl group a phenyl group or an ethyl group. Among them a methyl group or a phenyl group is preferred in terms of compatibility or the like.

The molecular weight of the silicone b represented by the general formula 1 and the molecular weight weight average molecular weight of a silicone silicone monomer bonded as a side chain to the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a represented by the general formula 2 are preferably 250 or more and 50000 or less and more preferably 500 or more and 20000 or less.

Specific examples of the silicone b represented by the general formula 1 and the silicone silicone monomer bonded as a side chain to the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a represented by the general formula 2 include KF9701 KF8008 and KF6001 manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. and TSR160 TSR145 TSR165 and YF3804 manufactured by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. .

The isocyanate functions as a cross linking agent between the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin and the silicone between the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resins and between the silicones. Non limiting examples of the isocyanate include diisocyanates such as methylene diisocyanate toluene diisocyanate hexamethylene diisocyanate and isophorone diisocyanate polyfunctional isocyanates e.g. polyisocyanate Duranate manufactured by Asahi Kasei Corp. having a biuret structure an isocyanurate structure or an adduct structure which are multimers of hexamethylene polyisocyanate. These isocyanates may be used in combination as a mixture of two or more. In particular when high cross linking density is required a high flexure grade isocyanate may be used in an amount of 10 to 100 . A blocked isocyanate may be used so that a reaction does not occur until a particular temperature.

The ratio i ii of the content i of the isocyanate to the amount ii of the hydroxyl group in the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin is preferably 0.7 or more and 3 or less and more preferably 0.9 or more and 2 or less.

A method for forming the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment method for polymerizing a resin will now be described. For example a method for forming a protective film sample for evaluation is described. When the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a the silicone b and the isocyanate c are polymerized the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a the silicone b and the isocyanate c are mixed with each other and the conductive powder is added thereto at the above described volume ratio. After defoaming is performed under reduced pressure the mixed solution is applied onto a polyimide film having a thickness of 90 m by casting to form a resin layer sample for evaluation. The sample is cured by performing heating at 85 C. for 60 minutes and then at 160 C. for 30 minutes. In practice the mixed solution is applied onto a surface to be protected and cured by performing heating in the same manner.

The method for forming a surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is not particularly limited to the method for polymerizing the compositions a b and c . For example when a blocked isocyanate is used heating is performed to a temperature equal to or higher than the unblocking temperature and then curing is performed. Furthermore ultrasonic waves may be used instead of the defoaming under reduced pressure or the mixed solution may be defoamed by being left to stand. The urethane resin according to this exemplary embodiment is also formed by polymerizing the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin a and the isocyanate c .

The thickness of the surface protective film is not particularly limited and is preferably 1 m or more and 500 m or less and more preferably 10 m or more and 100 m or less.

As described above the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used without being limited for products in which scratches are formed on the surface while at the same time electrostatic charge is generated due to contact with foreign matter. Examples of the products include a screen and body of portable devices such as cellular phones and portable gaming devices a body and door knob of automobiles the exterior of a piano a transfer member in image forming apparatuses and a hanger.

The application of the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment will now be described.

A transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment at least includes a base and the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment the surface protective film being formed on the base.

When a surface protective film including the self healing urethane resin and the conductive powder at the above described volume ratio relative to the urethane resin is formed on a base a transfer member which has an excellent self healing property and whose discharge degradation is suppressed is obtained.

Examples of a raw material used for the base of the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment include polyimide resin polyamide imide resin polyester resin polyamide resin and fluorocarbon resin. Among them polyimide resin and polyamide imide resin are preferably used.

In the case where the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment is a transfer belt the base may have seams or may be seamless as long as the base is a ring shaped belt endless belt . The base has a thickness of for example 0.02 mm or more and 0.2 mm or less. The belt shaped transfer member includes a ring shaped endless base and a surface protective film formed on the surface of the base. The surface protective film has a thickness of for example 1 m or more and 100 m or less.

In the case where the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment is a transfer roller the base may have a cylindrical shape. The base has a thickness of for example 3 mm or more and 10 mm or less. The roll shaped transfer member includes a cylindrical base and a surface protective film formed on the surface of the base. The surface protective film has a thickness of for example 1 m or more and 100 m or less.

The contact angle of the surface protective film of the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment is preferably 60 degrees or more and more preferably 80 degrees or more. When the contact angle is 80 degrees or more high releasability is achieved.

The contact angle is controlled by adjusting for example the amount of fluorine atoms contained in the hydroxyl group containing acrylic resin and the long chain polyol and the amount of silicone.

The dynamic contact angle advancing contact angle is measured in the following manner. A water droplet is dropped on a solid surface of a resin material by using a syringe. The water droplet is expanded by injecting water thereinto. A contact angle at an instant when the contact surface between the resin material and the water increases is measured as the dynamic advancing contact angle. The receding contact angle is measured in the following manner. After the measurement of the advancing contact angle the water in the water droplet is sucked up. A contact angle just before the contact surface between the resin material and the water decreases is measured as the receding contact angle. The contact angle is measured at room temperature 25 C. using Contact angle meter Model CAS manufactured by Kyowa Interface Science Co. Ltd. .

An image forming apparatus according to this exemplary embodiment includes for example an electrostatic latent image carrier hereinafter may be referred to as photoconductor an electrostatic latent image forming device that forms a latent image electrostatic latent image on a surface of the electrostatic latent image carrier a developing device that forms a toner image by developing with toner the electrostatic latent image formed on the surface of the electrostatic latent image carrier an intermediate transfer body including the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment a first transfer device that transfers the toner image formed on the electrostatic latent image carrier onto the intermediate transfer body and a second transfer device that transfers the toner image on the intermediate transfer body onto a recording medium.

When the transfer member includes on a base the surface protective film containing the self healing urethane resin and the conductive powder at the above described volume ratio relative to the urethane resin an image forming apparatus including a transfer member that achieves an excellent self healing property of the surface and suppresses the discharge degradation is obtained.

In the image forming apparatus for example a unit including the transfer member may have a cartridge structure process cartridge that is detachably attachable to the main body of the image forming apparatus. The process cartridge is not particularly limited as long as the process cartridge includes the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment. An example of the process cartridge is a process cartridge that includes the transfer member according to this exemplary embodiment and a developing device which forms a toner image by developing with toner the electrostatic latent image formed on the electrostatic latent image carrier and that is detachably attachable to the image forming apparatus.

When the transfer member includes on a base the surface protective film containing the self healing urethane resin and the conductive powder at the above described volume ratio relative to the urethane resin a process cartridge including a transfer member that achieves an excellent self healing property of the surface and suppresses the discharge degradation is obtained.

The image forming apparatus according to this exemplary embodiment includes the transfer member. FIGURE is a schematic diagram for describing a principal part of a tandem type image forming apparatus including at least one of an intermediate transfer belt and a transfer roller as the transfer member.

Specifically an image forming apparatus includes a photoconductor electrostatic latent image carrier a charging roller that charges a surface of the photoconductor a laser generating device electrostatic latent image forming device that forms an electrostatic latent image by exposing the surface of the photoconductor a developing device that forms a toner image by developing with a developer the latent image formed on the surface of the photoconductor an intermediate transfer belt intermediate transfer body onto which the toner image formed by the developing device is transferred from the photoconductor a first transfer roller first transfer device that transfers the toner image onto the intermediate transfer belt a photoconductor cleaning member that removes toner dust and the like attached to the photoconductor a second transfer roller second transfer device that transfers the toner image on the intermediate transfer belt onto a recording medium and a fixing device that fixes the toner image on the recording medium. The first transfer roller may be disposed directly above the photoconductor as illustrated in FIGURE but is not necessarily disposed directly above the photoconductor .

The structure of the image forming apparatus illustrated in FIGURE will be further described in detail. In the image forming apparatus the charging roller the developing device the first transfer roller disposed so as to face the photoconductor with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween and the photoconductor cleaning member are disposed around the photoconductor in a counterclockwise direction. A set of these members form a developing unit that corresponds to one color. A toner cartridge that supplies the developer to the developing device is disposed for each developing unit. The laser generating device is disposed for the photoconductors of the developing units. The laser generating device irradiates a surface portion of each photoconductor with laser light in accordance with image information the surface portion being present on the downstream side of the charging roller in the direction in which the photoconductor rotates and on the upstream side of the developing device .

Four developing units corresponding to four colors e.g. cyan magenta yellow and black are horizontally arranged in a line in the image forming apparatus . The intermediate transfer belt is disposed so as to be passed through transfer regions between the photoconductors and the first transfer rollers of the four developing units. The intermediate transfer belt is supported by a support roller a support roller and a driving roller that are sequentially arranged counterclockwise inside the intermediate transfer belt . Thus a belt supporting device is provided. The four first transfer rollers are positioned on the downstream side of the support roller in the direction in which the intermediate transfer belt rotates and on the upstream side of the support roller . A transfer cleaning member that cleans the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt is disposed so as to face the driving roller with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween and so as to be in contact with the driving roller .

The second transfer roller that transfers a toner image formed on the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt onto a surface of recording paper transported from a sheet supplying unit through a sheet transport path is disposed so as to face the support roller with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween and so as to be in contact with the support roller .

The sheet supplying unit that contains recording media is disposed in a bottom portion of the image forming apparatus . A recording medium is supplied from the sheet supplying unit so as to be passed through the sheet transport path and the nip between the support roller and the second transfer roller that constitute a second transfer unit. The recording medium that has been passed through the nip is further transported by a transporting device not shown so as to be passed through the nip of the fixing device . Finally the recording medium is discharged from the image forming apparatus .

A method for forming an image by using the image forming apparatus illustrated in FIGURE will now be described. The formation of a toner image is performed in each developing unit. The surface of the photoconductor being rotated counterclockwise is charged by the charging roller . Then a latent image electrostatic latent image is formed on the charged surface of the photoconductor by the laser generating device exposure device . Subsequently the latent image is developed with a developer supplied from the developing device to form a toner image. The toner image that has been transported to the nip between the first transfer roller and the photoconductor is transferred onto the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt being rotated in the direction indicated by arrow C. The photoconductor after the transfer of a toner image is subjected to cleaning of toner dust and the like attached to the surface of the photoconductor by the photoconductor cleaning member . Thus the photoconductor is prepared for the next formation of a toner image.

The toner images developed by the developing units corresponding to colors are sequentially stacked on the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt so as to correspond to image information. The thus superimposed toner images are transported to a second transfer unit and transferred by the second transfer roller onto a surface of recording paper that has been transported from the sheet supplying unit through the sheet transport path . The recording paper onto which the toner images have been transferred is then pressed and heated when the recording paper is passed through the nip of the fixing device . As a result the toner images are fixed to form an image on the surface of the recording medium. Then the recording medium is discharged from the image forming apparatus .

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used as a protective film for a screen and body of portable devices.

The screen and body of portable devices such as cellular phones and portable gaming devices may become scratched as a result of contact with and rubbing against the tips nails of fingers or the tip of a control stick. Furthermore static electricity builds up on the screen and body as a result of rubbing against for example a cloth in a bag or a clothes pocket and thus dust easily adheres to the screen and body. In contrast when the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is formed the formation of scratches is suppressed. Even if scratches are formed the scratches heal and thus the formation of scratches permanent scratches permanently left on the surface is efficiently suppressed. Furthermore since high conductivity is provided the electrostatic charge is suppressed and thus the adhesion of dust is suppressed.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used as a protective film for a body and door knob of automobiles.

The body and door knob of automobiles are exposed to an outdoor environment and thus may become scratched due to various factors such as contact with sand leaves branches and the like that are carried by wind and contact with insects and the like. Furthermore static electricity builds up due to exposure to an outdoor environment and thus dust easily adheres to the body and door knob. In particular when a person touches a door knob being charged with static electricity the static electricity is discharged. In contrast when the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is formed the formation of scratches is suppressed. Even if scratches are formed the scratches heal and thus the formation of scratches permanent scratches permanently left on the surface is efficiently suppressed. Furthermore since high conductivity is provided the electrostatic charge is suppressed and thus the adhesion of dust is suppressed.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used as a protective film for the exterior of a piano.

The exterior of a piano may become scratched as a result of contact with musical instruments being played by other players or contact with various objects caused when the piano itself is moved. Furthermore the exterior of a piano is often wiped with a dry cloth when cleaning. Static electricity builds up as a result of rubbing with the dry cloth and thus dust easily adheres to the exterior. In contrast when the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is formed the formation of scratches is suppressed. Even if scratches are formed the scratches heal and thus the formation of scratches permanent scratches permanently left on the surface is efficiently suppressed. Furthermore since high conductivity is provided the electrostatic charge is suppressed and thus the adhesion of dust is suppressed.

The surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is used as a protective film for a hanger.

The surface of a hanger may become scratched as a result of contact with a belt and buttons and clothes may become caught on the scratches. Furthermore static electricity builds up on plastic hangers when clothes made of a chemical fiber are hung on and taken off. In contrast when the surface protective film according to this exemplary embodiment is formed the formation of scratches is suppressed. Even if scratches are formed the scratches heal and thus the formation of scratches permanent scratches permanently left on the surface is efficiently suppressed. Furthermore since high conductivity is provided the electrostatic charge is suppressed and thus the adhesion of dust is suppressed.

The present invention will now be more specifically described in detail based on Examples and Comparative Examples but is not limited to Examples below. Hereafter part means part by mass unless otherwise specified.

Specifically hydroxyethyl methacrylate HEMA which is a monomer serving as a short side chain hydroxyl group a polycaprolactam containing monomer FM3 manufactured by Daicel Corporation and a fluorine containing acrylic monomer FAMAC6 manufactured by UNIMATEC CO. LTD. are mixed with each other at a molar ratio of 3 2 1. A silicon containing monomer Silaplane 711 manufactured by JNC CORPORATION is added thereto in an amount of 20 mass relative to the total mass of the above mixture and a polymerization initiator benzoyl peroxide BPO and butyl acetate are further added thereto in amounts of 5 mass and 10 mass relative to the total mass of the monomers respectively to prepare a monomer solution. The monomer solution is inserted into a dropping funnel and dropped into 100 mass relative to the monomers of butyl acetate that is heated to 110 C. while flowing nitrogen under stirring over three hours to polymerize the monomers. Furthermore a solution composed of 30 mass relative to the monomers of butyl acetate and 0.5 mass relative to the monomers of BPO is dropped into the reaction solution over one hour to complete the reaction. The reaction solution is always kept at 110 C. under stirring during the reaction. As a result an acrylic resin prepolymer A1 is synthesized.

The prepolymer is mixed with an isocyanate and other additives and defoamed. Then a surface protective film sample A1 is formed by a heat curing method.

Specifically a solution A below and a solution B below are mixed with each other at a ratio below. A conductive powder dispersion solution C is then gradually added to the mixture solution under stirring and defoaming is performed under reduced pressure for 10 minutes. The resultant solution is applied onto a polyimide film having a thickness of 90 m by casting cured at 85 C. for one hour and further cured at 160 C. for one hour to obtain a surface protective film sample A1 having a thickness of 40 m.

The average particle size of conductive powder contained in the surface protective film sample is measured using a transmission electron microscope H 9000 manufactured by Hitachi High Technologies Corporation . Table 1 shows the results. The average particle size is an average of particle sizes of 100 particles measured.

The surface resistivity of the surface protective film sample is measured using Ultra high Resistance Meter R8340A manufactured by ADVANTEST CORPORATION and UR Probe manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. The resistance to discharge degradation is evaluated in accordance with the criteria below. Table 1 shows the results.

Excellent No decrease in resistance value is caused in both paper passing area and non paper passing area.

Good A decrease in resistance value is within a decrease of one order of magnitude in both paper passing area and non paper passing area.

Fair A decrease in resistance value is within a decrease of one order of magnitude in either paper passing area or non paper passing area.

Poor A decrease in resistance value is a decrease of two or more orders of magnitude in both paper passing area and non paper passing area.

The self healing property of the surface protective film sample is evaluated by measuring the restoration ratio at 30 C. using the following method. Table 1 shows the results. FISCHERSCOPE HM2000 manufactured by Fischer Instruments K.K. is used as a measurement device. A sample urethane resin layer formed by performing coating on a polyimide film is fixed on a slide glass with an adhesive and the slide glass is set on a hot stage of the measurement device. A load is applied to the sample urethane resin layer up to 0.5 mN at 30 C. over 15 seconds and held at 0.5 mN for 5 seconds. The maximum displacement at this timing is defined as h1 . Subsequently the load is decreased to 0.005 mN over 15 seconds and held at 0.005 mN for 1 minute. The displacement at this timing is defined as h2 . The restoration ratio is calculated from the formula h1 h2 h1 . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 30 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 8 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that a conductive powder carbon black having an average particle size of 16 nm is used and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that a conductive powder carbon black having an average particle size of 30 nm is used and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that a conductive powder carbon black having an average particle size of 47 nm is used and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the ratio of HEMA FM3 FAMAC6 is set to be 2.5 2.5 1 to adjust the hydroxyl value of the acrylic resin prepolymer to be 120 and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin containing a fluorine atom and silicone are not used. Specifically an acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the fluorine containing acrylic monomer FAMAC6 manufactured by UNIMATEC CO. LTD. is changed to n butyl methacrylate nBMA the silicon containing monomer Silaplane 711 is not used the molar ratio of HEMA FM3 nBMA is changed to 1 2 3 and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the fluorine containing acrylic monomer FAMAC6 manufactured by UNIMATEC CO. LTD. is changed to n butyl methacrylate nBMA so as not to use the acrylic resin containing a fluorine atom the molar ratio of HEMA nBMA is changed to 2 1 the amount of silicone is changed to 11 mass the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass and Duranate TKA100 serving as the B solution isocyanate is changed to Duranate E402 Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the silicon containing monomer Silaplane 711 is not used the molar ratio of HEMA FM3 FAMAC6 is changed to 1 2 3 the amount of fluorine is changed to 11 mass and the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that titanium oxide is used instead of carbon black serving as the conductive powder and the amount of conductive powder titanium oxide added is changed to 30 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 3.4 vol 5 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of conductive powder carbon black added is changed to 26 vol 35 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

An acrylic resin prepolymer and a surface protective film sample are produced and evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the hydroxyl value of the acrylic resin prepolymer is changed to 2 and the amount of conductive powder titanium oxide added is changed to 20 mass . Table 1 shows the results.

In Examples 3 and 12 the restoration ratio at 30 C. is less than 80 as shown in Table 1. However when the surface protective film sample is heated to 40 C. the restoration ratio increases to 80 or more and thus an evaluation of Good is given for the self healing property for scratches.

The surface resistivity of the surface protective film sample is measured using Ultra high Resistance Meter R8340A manufactured by ADVANTEST CORPORATION and UR Probe manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd.

The surface of the surface protective film sample is lightly rubbed with BEMCOT twenty times and then polymethyl methacrylate PMMA particles having a particle size of 300 nm are lightly rubbed against the surface with a brush. After the surface protective film sample is turned upside down to remove excess powder particles the adhesive property of dust is evaluated in accordance with the amount of PMMA particles adhering to the surface.

Fair The surface of the surface protective film sample is seen but a large amount of powder adheres to the surface.

Poor The surface of the surface protective film sample appears white as a result of being covered with the powder.

As described above in the surface protective film samples of Examples that include the self healing urethane resin and the conductive powder whose content is 5 vol or more and 25 vol or less or about 5 vol or more and about 25 vol or less relative to the volume of the urethane resin an excellent self healing property of the surface is achieved the electrostatic charge is suppressed and the discharge degradation is suppressed compared with the surface protective film samples of Comparative Examples.

A PET film on which the surface protective film of Example 2 is formed is pasted in an upper portion of the screen of a cellular phone TOSHIBA biblio and the cellular phone is used in a usual manner for one month. After one month the states of formation of scratches and adhesion of dust are confirmed through visual inspection in a portion covered with the surface protective film and a portion covered with no surface protective film. Small scratches are confirmed in the portion covered with no surface protective film but no scratches are confirmed in the portion covered with the surface protective film. Furthermore the trace of fingerprints is not easily seen in the portion covered with the surface protective film.

An imide film on which the surface protective film of Example 10 is formed is pasted on a door knob and in a depressed portion of the door knob of TOYOTA SIENTA and the car is used in a usual manner for one month. Electrostatic charge that builds up when a person touches the door knob to open and close a door is not felt during the use for one month. Scratches to be formed due to contact with nails are also not seen on the surface protective film.

A polystyrene hanger is coated with the surface protective film of Example 2. An action of hanging on and taking off a 100 polyester blouse is repeatedly performed twenty times and then the adhesive property of dust is evaluated using PMMA particles powder as described above. Almost no powder adheres to the surface protective film. The formation of scratches is also not confirmed through visual inspection.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with the various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

