---

title: Method and system for secure automated document registration from social media networks
abstract: A method and system for secure automated document registration with social media. A secure cloud transformed electronic document is created on an application on a target network device from an original electronic document. The original electronic document is electronic text, audio, video or pictures from a social media network or from a telecommunications network. The secure cloud transformed electronic document is made viewable via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on a cloud communications network or on a social media network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document. This provides an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network and the social media network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914351&OS=08914351&RS=08914351
owner: 
number: 08914351
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131118
---
This U.S. Utility patent application is a Continuation In Part CIP of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 726 225 filed Dec. 24 2012 that issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 589 372 on Oct. 19 2013 which is a CIP of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 638 268 filed Dec. 15 2009 that issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 341 141 on Dec. 25 2012 U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 638 268 claims priority to U.S. Provisional patent application 61 201 833 filed Dec. 16 2008 the contents of all of which are incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to electronic documents. More specifically the present invention relates to a system and method for providing reliable independent confirmation of existence and content of an electronic document at a verifiable point in time from social media networks.

In many instances it is important to assign a confirmed certifiable and non alterable date to a critical document or work. Inherent in such efforts is the need to describe the accuracy once the criteria for such dating is settled upon careful documentation of a work demands a high level of specificity and detail in identifying the content of the work that is to be documented. At times unique problems arise from the desire to provide careful documentation of a work as its undergoes continuing evolution. In such instances minute changes can become buried in a torrent of ongoing revisions and additions and it may not be known at the time what versions of a work will have significance in the future.

There is an obvious need to share documents within and between entities in a secure and time verified manner. There could be innumerable reasons for the sharing of documents between entities but two prominent reasons are for the verification of actions and the settling of disputes. Entities could be individuals businesses departments or individuals within a business government agencies or any type of organization.

There are currently various methods whereby the contents of a document can be verified at a specific time. For example when an entity files a document with a government agency or when a document is faxed or emailed from one entity to another or when a document is physically received. These methods meet specific needs at certain times but they are inefficient and unsuitable for general use corporate use government use The government is not in the business of verifying documents and dates to third parties faxing can result in poor quality reproductions and incorrect timestamps and fax and email timestamps can also be tampered with and it is not desirable to email sensitive documents over a public network and the recipient comes into possession of a document that could be edited and then forwarded as genuine.

When a document is shared between parties the receiving party can only be certain of the state of the document at that point in time unless there is an independent trusted third party verification of the state of the document at a prior point in time. The broad based use of digital documents combined with the availability of software tools that allow the editing and manipulation of digital documents increase the possibility of tampering and forgery of documents which creates risk for the receiving party. The system time of computers can be manually re set or manipulated causing a false create or modification date to display. Furthermore with ad hoc methods such as faxing or email document submission there are additional problems for example keeping track of document versions with these methods is prone to human error also keeping track of who has access to the documents in other words who received copies of all versions of all shared documents and who those recipients shared the documents with is administratively very problematic.

One with problem with social media networks is that it is difficult to save and retrieve postings made to social media sites. It is easy for such posting to be lost or not be further available. For example in many instances a parent spouse partner etc. of a deceased loved one has been denied access to postings pictures audio files etc. on a social media site in the event of a death or accidental death etc. of their loved one.

Another problem with social media networks is that it is difficult to save and retrieve postings made to social media sites that may be the subject of civil or criminal law suits.

Another problem is that it is difficult to save and retrieve voice mails text messages and other electronic information from a mobile smart phone or electronic tablet connected to a telecommunications network. There have been many incidents where a person whose loved one had died e.g. in the 911 attach in NY in an accident from a disease etc. had left the person a voice mail message. That person would replay the voice mail message to keep a memory alive with the deceased loved one. There have been many instances in which such voice mails texts etc. were accidently or intentionally deleted by the telecommunications network.

There is clearly a need that such documents should be available from social media networks and telecommunications network.

There is clearly a need for an automated process that enables entities to securely share time verified content audit content and actions on the content on a selective basis via social medial networks.

In accordance with preferred embodiments of the present invention some of the problems associated with registering electronic documents are overcome. A method and system for secure automated document registration with social media is presented.

The method and system described herein provide a secure cloud transformed electronic document created on an application on a target network device from an original electronic document. The original electronic document is electronic text audio video or pictures from a social media network or from a telecommunications network. The secure cloud transformed electronic document is made viewable via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on a cloud communications network or on a social media network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document. This provides an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network and the social media network.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of preferred embodiments of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the following detailed description. The detailed description proceeds with references to the accompanying drawings.

The target devices are in communications with a cloud communications network . The cloud communications network includes communications including but is not limited to communications over a wire connected to the target network devices wireless communications and other types of communications using one or more communications and or networking protocols. The target network devices include one or more original electronic documents . The original electronic documents include but are not limited to electronic text audio video graphical digital image object images executable files digital data files and other types of original electronic documents .

The system further includes plural server network devices only three of which are illustrated include one or more associated databases numbered prime prime prime . The plural server network devices are in communications with the one or more target devices via the cloud communications network . The plural server devices include but are not limited to World Wide Web servers Internet servers file servers other types of electronic information servers and other types of server network devices e.g. edge servers firewalls routers gateways etc. . The one or more server network devices are also used to create display transfer and or register secure transformed electronic documents .

The secure transformed electronic documents are original electronic documents transformed with the methods and systems described herein. The secure transformed electronic documents include secure cloud transformed electronic documents .

The plural server network devices include but are not limited to servers used for securely registering original electronic documents.

The one or more target devices include many different types of target network devices including but not limited to client terminals in communications with one or more servers personal digital data assistants PDA laptop computers desktop computers mobile computers net book computers Internet appliances two way pagers mobile phones smart phones such as the iPhone by Apple Inc. Blackberry Storm and other models by Research In Motion Inc. Droid by Motorola Inc other smart phones other mobile phones etc. electronic tablets and tablet computers such as the iPad by Apple digital cameras portable and non portable electronic gaming platforms e.g. Play Station Portable PSP by Sony the Gameboy and DS by Nintendo XBOX by Microsoft Wii Nintendo Play Station by Sony etc. non mobile phones cable television CATV set top boxes satellite television boxes or digital televisions including a high definition television HDTV or a three dimensional 3D television or other similar desktop mobile or hand held electronic devices. However the present invention is not limited to the devices described and other or equivalent electronic devices can also be used to practice the invention.

The cloud communications network includes but is not limited to portions of the Internet an intranet a wired Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN WiLAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and other types of communications networks .

The cloud communications network includes a wire or wireless telecommunications network and or a wired and or wireless data network e.g. Internet Protocol IP suite of protocols including Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP etc. .

The cloud communications network may include one or more gateways routers bridges switches. As is known in the art a gateway connects computer networks using different network protocols and or operating at different transmission capacities. A router receives transmitted messages and forwards them to their correct destinations over the most efficient available route. A bridge is a device that connects networks using the same communications protocols so that information can be passed from one network device to another. A switch is a device that filters and forwards packets between network segments. Switches typically operate at the data link layer and sometimes the network layer therefore support virtually any packet protocol.

The system further includes a secure independent date time stamp system . The date time stamp system securely provides an accurate date time stamp to the system . The secure independent date time stamp system may be internal or external to the system .

The system may further include one or more electronic scanners one of which is illustrated for scanning in paper documents. The system may further include one or more CD ROM devices DVD devices USB devices Micro SD devices etc. for securely storing electronic documents.

The system may further include biometric readers one of which is illustrated . The biometric readers include but are not limited to iris scan readers fingerprint readers facial recognition readers and other types of biometric readers.

The various types of biometric readers measure biometric patterns and biometric emissions. These patterns and emissions may be derived from measurements of features of a human body. These patterns may also be derived from measurements of physical features of an object or from patterns applied to an object such as on a label e.g. a bar code UPC code RFID tag etc. Patterns derived from physical features such as fingerprints iris patterns DNA samples etc. or emissions such as voices other sounds etc. of the human body are referred to herein as biometrics. The present invention finds particular utility in identification of objects and biometric identification of humans and or non human entities for securely registering electronic files.

In one embodiment the databases comprise relational databases. In one embodiment the databases and use the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and a LDAP database layout structure. However the present invention is not limited to a relational database or using the LDAP and other types of databases and database protocols can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the databases securely transform register and store electronic documents. The system and method aggregates data from the databases to a central Directory e.g. LDAP directory etc. . The data in the central Directory is an abstraction of the relational database records from databases . The system allows the capability to perform various auditing and reconciliation functions in batch or real time on part or whole of the data in the Directory.

In one embodiment the system and stores the plural data sets in an LDAP directory. This model enables usage of the aggregated data without impacting the performance of the network elements and system . However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment a centralized data model is used. The disparate nature of an operator s network infrastructure and system may cause difficult accessibility. This limitation is overcome by aggregating data and storing it at a centralized directory service e.g. LDAP . This allows operators to easily and quickly access subscriber data of the disparate systems. This model also enables usage of the aggregated data without impacting the performance of the server network devices and system . Locating subscriber data at a centralized directory protocol provides many advantages over a decentralized model including but not limited to ease of management and greater control.

In one exemplary embodiment the secure collection and secure return include but are not limited to securely transferring electronic files using encryption and other secure transport mechanisms described above e.g. encryption hashing message digesting secure sockets layer transport level security X.509 etc .

The target network devices and the server network devices include wired and wireless interfaces to communicate with the cloud communications network .

In one embodiment of the present invention the wired interfaces corresponding networking protocols for wired connections to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a cable television network CATV including High Definition TV HDTV Three dimensional 3D TV or the Internet that connect the computers and network devices via one or more twisted pairs of copper wires digital subscriber lines e.g. DSL ADSL VDSL etc. coaxial cable fiber optic cable other connection media or other connection interfaces and via the wireless interfaces described herein. The PSTN is any public switched telephone network provided by AT T GTE Sprint MCI SBC Verizon and others.

In one embodiment of the present invention the wireless interfaces include but are not limited to an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.15.4 ZigBee 802.16a 802.16g Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX ETSI High Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network HIPERMAN RF Home or other types of wireless interfaces. However the present invention is not limited to such wireless interface and other types of wireless interfaces can also be used.

In another embodiment of the present invention the wireless interface includes a wireless sensor device that comprises an integral or separate Bluetooth and or infra data association IrDA module for wireless Bluetooth or wireless infrared communications.

In one embodiment of the invention the wireless interfaces include WPAN wireless personal area network WPAN interfaces. As is known in the art a WPAN is a personal area network for interconnecting devices centered around an individual person s devices in which the connections are wireless. A WPAN interconnects all the ordinary computing and communicating devices that a person has on their desk e.g. computer etc. or carry with them e.g. PDA mobile phone two way pager etc. 

Typically a wireless personal area network uses some technology that permits communication only within about 10 meters. One such technology is Bluetooth. Another such technology is Zigbee. 

A key concept in WPAN technology is known as plugging in. In the ideal scenario when any two WPAN equipped devices come into close proximity within several meters of each other or within a few kilometers of a central server not illustrated they can communicate via wireless communications as if connected by a cable. WPAN devices can also lock out other devices selectively preventing needless interference or unauthorized access to secure information.

As is known in the art an 802.11b is a short range wireless network standard. The IEEE 802.11b standard defines wireless interfaces that provide up to 11 Mbps wireless data transmission to and from wireless devices over short ranges. 802.11a is an extension of the 802.11b and can deliver speeds up to 54M bps. 802.11g deliver speeds on par with 802.11a. However other 802.11xx interfaces can also be used and the present invention is not limited to the 802.11 protocols defined. The IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g standards are incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art Wi Fi is a type of 802.11 xx interface whether 802.11b 802.11a dual band etc. Wi Fi devices include an RF interfaces such as 2.4 GHz for 802.11b or 802.11g and 5 GHz for 802.11a. More information on Wi Fi can be found at the URL www.weca.net. 

As is known in the art 802.15.4 Zigbee is low data rate network standard used for mesh network devices such as sensors interactive toys smart badges remote controls and home automation. The 802.15.4 standard provides data rates of 250 kbps 40 kbps and 20 kbps two addressing modes 16 bit short and 64 bit IEEE addressing support for critical latency devices such as joysticks Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Avoidance CSMA CA channel access automatic network establishment by a coordinator fully handshaked protocol for transfer reliability power management to ensure low power consumption for multi month to multi year battery usage and up to 16 channels in the 2.4 GHz ISM band Worldwide 10 channels in the 915 MHz US and one channel in the 868 MHz band Europe . The IEEE 802.15.4 2003 standard is incorporated herein by reference. More information on 802.15.4 and ZigBee can be found at the URL www.ieee802.org and www.zigbee.org respectively.

As is known in the art WiMAX is an industry trade organization formed by leading communications component and equipment companies to promote and certify compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless access equipment that conforms to the IEEE 802.16XX and ETSI HIPERMAN. HIPERMAN is the European standard for metropolitan area networks MAN .

The IEEE The 802.16a and 802.16g standards are wireless MAN technology standard that provides a wireless alternative to cable DSL and T1 E1 for last mile broadband access. It is also used as complimentary technology to connect IEEE 802.11XX hot spots to the Internet.

The IEEE 802.16a standard for 2 11 GHz is a wireless MAN technology that provides broadband wireless connectivity to fixed portable and nomadic devices. It provides up to 50 kilometers of service area range allows users to get broadband connectivity without needing direct line of sight with the base station and provides total data rates of up to 280 Mbps per base station which is enough bandwidth to simultaneously support hundreds of businesses with T1 E1 type connectivity and thousands of homes with DSL type connectivity with a single base station. The IEEE 802.16g provides up to 100 Mbps.

The IEEE 802.16e standard is an extension to the approved IEEE 802.16 16a 16g standard. The purpose of 802.16e is to add limited mobility to the current standard which is designed for fixed operation.

The ESTI HIPERMAN standard is an interoperable broadband fixed wireless access standard for systems operating at radio frequencies between 2 GHz and 11 GHz.

The IEEE 802.16a 802.16e and 802.16g standards are incorporated herein by reference. More information on WiMAX can be found at the URL www.wimaxforum.org. WiMAX can be used to provide a WLP.

The ETSI HIPERMAN standards TR 101 031 TR 101 475 TR 101 493 1 through TR 101 493 3 TR 101 761 1 through TR 101 761 4 TR 101 762 TR 101 763 1 through TR 101 763 3 and TR 101 957 are incorporated herein by reference. More information on ETSI standards can be found at the URL www.etsi.org. ETSI HIPERMAN can be used to provide a WLP.

As is known in the art Bluetooth is a short range radio frequency technology aimed at simplifying communications among network devices and between network devices. Bluetooth wireless technology supports both short range point to point and point to multipoint connections. The Bluetooth Specification GL 11r02 March 2005 prepared by the Bluetooth SIG Inc. is incorporated herein by reference.

The target devices include a protocol stack with multiple layers based on the Internet Protocol or OSI network reference model. The protocol stack includes but is not limited to TCP UDP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol version 3 POP3 Internet Mail Access Protocol IMAP Voice Over IP VoIP Instant Messaging IM Short Message Services SMS and other protocols.

TCP provides a connection oriented end to end reliable protocol designed to fit into a layered hierarchy of protocols that support multi network applications. For more information on TCP 58 see RFC 793 incorporated herein by reference.

UDP provides a connectionless mode of communications with datagrams in an interconnected set of networks. For more information on UDP see ITEF RFC 768 incorporated herein by reference.

IP is an addressing protocol designed to route traffic within a network or between networks. For more information on IP 54 see IETF RFC 791 incorporated herein by reference. An IP address includes four sets of numbers divided by period e.g. x.x.x.x in the range of zero to 255. An IP address is a unique string of numbers that identifies a device on an IP based network.

HTTP is a standard protocol for communications on the World Wide Web. For more information on HTTP see IETF RFC 2616 incorporated herein by reference.

SMTP is a protocol for sending e mail messages between devices including e mail servers. For more information on SMTP see IETF RFC 821 and RFC 2821 incorporated herein by reference.

POP3 is a protocol for a protocol used to retrieve e mail from a mail server. For more information on POP3 see IETF RFC 1939 incorporated herein by reference.

IMAP is a protocol for retrieving e mail messages from a server. For more information on IMAP see IETF RFC 1730 incorporated herein by reference.

EXtensible Markup Language XML is XML Extensible Markup Language is a markup language for data that allows information and services to be encoded with meaningful structure and semantics that computers and humans can understand. XML is used for information exchange and includes user specified and industry specified tags. For more information on XML see IETF RFC 3023.

Media Access Control MAC is a data link layer protocol. A MAC address is a physical address of a device connected to a communications network expressed as a 48 bit hexadecimal number. A MAC address is permanently assigned to each unit of most types of networking hardware such as network interface cards NICs by manufacturers at the factory.

VoIP is a set of facilities for managing the delivery of voice information using IP 28 packets. In general VoIP is used to send voice information in digital form in discrete data packets i.e. IP 28 packets over data networks rather than using traditional circuit switched protocols used on the PSTN. VoIP is used on both wireless and wired data networks.

VoIP typically comprises several applications e.g. SIP SLP H.323 H.324 DNS AAA etc. that convert a voice signal into a stream of packets e.g. IP 28 packets on a packet network and back again. VoIP allows voice signals to travel over a stream of data packets over a cloud communications network .

As is known in the art Session Initiation Protocol SIP supports user mobility by proxying and re directing requests to a mobile node s current location. Mobile nodes can register their current location. SIP is not tied to any particular conference control protocol. SIP is designed to be independent of a lower layer transport protocol and can be extended. For more information on SIP see IETF RFC 2543 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art Service Location Protocol SLP provides a scalable framework for the discovery and selection of network services. Using SLP network devices using the Internet need little or no static configuration of network services for network based applications. For more information on SLP see IETF RFC 2608 incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art H.323 is one of main family of video conferencing recommendations for IP networks. The ITU T H.323 standards entitled Packet based multimedia communications systems dated February 1998 September 1999 November 2000 and July 2003 are incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art H.324 is a video conferencing recommendation using Plain Old Telephone Service POTS lines. The ITU T H.324 standards entitled Terminal for low bit rate multimedia communication dated February 1998 and March 2002 are incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art a Domain Name System DNS provides replicated distributed secure hierarchical databases that hierarchically store resource records under domain names. For more information on the DNS see IETF RFC 1034 RFC 1035 RFC 1591 RFC 2606 and RFC 2929 the contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA includes a classification scheme and exchange format for accounting data records e.g. for call billing etc. . For more information on AAA applications see IETF RFC 2924 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

VoIP services typically need to be able to connect to traditional circuit switched voice networks such as those provided by the PSTN. Thus VoIP is typically used with the H.323 protocol and other multimedia protocols. H.323 and H.324 terminals such as multimedia computers handheld devices PDAs or other devices such as non mobile and mobile phones connect to existing wired and wireless cloud communications networks as well as private wired and wireless networks.

H.323 and H.324 terminals implement voice transmission functions and typically include at least one voice codec e.g. ITU T CODECS G.711 G.723 G.726 G.728 G.729 GSM etc. that sends and receives packetized voice data and typically at least one video codec e.g. MPEG etc. that sends and receives packetized video data .

An Instant Message IM is a short real time or near real time message that is sent between two or more end user devices such computers personal digital data assistants PDAs mobile phones etc. running IM client applications. An IM is typically a short textual message. Examples of IM messages include America Online s Instant AIM messaging service Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Yahoo Messenger and Lycos ICQ Instant Messenger IM services provided by telecom providers such as T Mobile Verizon Sprint and others that provide IM services via the Internet and other wired and wireless communications networks. In one embodiment of the present invention the IM protocols used meet the requirements of Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request For Comments RFC 2779 entitled Instant Messaging Presence Protocol Requirements. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other IM protocols not compliant with IETF RFC 2779 may also be used.

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP is a software protocol for enabling anyone to locate organizations individuals and other resources such as files and devices in a network whether on the public Internet or on private intranet or other cloud communications network . LDAP is a lightweight version of Directory Access Protocol DAP which is part of X.500 a standard for directory services in a network.

An operating environment for the network devices databases interfaces components of the system include a processing system with one or more high speed Central Processing Unit s CPU or one or more other processors and a memory or other computer readable mediums. In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the present invention is described below with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations or instructions that are performed by the processing system unless indicated otherwise. Such acts and operations or instructions are referred to as being computer executed CPU executed or processor executed. 

It will be appreciated that acts and symbolically represented operations or instructions include the manipulation of electrical signals by the CPU. An electrical system represents data bits which cause a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical signals and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in a memory system to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the CPU s operation as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

The data bits may also be maintained on a non transitory computer readable medium including magnetic disks optical disks organic memory and any other volatile e.g. Random Access Memory RAM or non volatile e.g. Read Only Memory ROM mass storage system readable by the CPU. The non transitory computer readable medium includes cooperating or interconnected or distributed computer readable medium which exist exclusively on the processing system or be distributed among multiple interconnected processing systems that may be local or remote to the processing system and may be accessed by one or more CPUs or processors.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention include computers servers network devices and interfaces that are compliant with all or part of standards proposed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE International Telecommunications Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector ITU European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Internet Engineering Task Force IETF U.S. National Institute of Security Technology NIST American National Standard Institute ANSI Wireless Application Protocol WAP Forum Bluetooth Forum or the ADSL Forum. However network devices based on other standards could also be used. IEEE standards can be found on the World Wide Web at the Universal Resource Locator URL www.ieee.org. The ITU formerly known as the CCITT standards can be found at the URL www.itu.ch. ETSI standards can be found at the URL www.etsi.org. IETF standards can be found at the URL www.ietforg.org. The NIST standards can be found at the URL www.nist.gov. The ANSI standards can be found at the URL www.ansi.org. Bluetooth Forum documents can be found at the URL www.bluetooth.com. WAP Forum documents can be found at the URL www.wapforum.org. ADSL Forum documents can be found at the URL www.adsl.com. 

Devices and interfaces of the present invention may include security and encryption for secure wired and wireless communications and data storage. Wireless Encryption Protocol WEP also called Wired Equivalent Privacy is a security protocol for WiLANs defined in the IEEE 802.11b standard. WEP is cryptographic privacy algorithm based on the Rivest Cipher 4 RC4 encryption engine used to provide confidentiality for 802.11b wireless data.

As is known in the art RC4 is cipher designed by RSA Data Security Inc. of Bedford Mass. which can accept encryption keys of arbitrary length and is essentially a pseudo random number generator with an output of the generator being XORed with a data stream to produce encrypted data.

One problem with WEP is that it is used at the two lowest layers of the OSI model the physical layer and the data link layer therefore it does not offer end to end security. One another problem with WEP is that its encryption keys are static rather than dynamic. To update WEP encryption keys an individual has to manually update a WEP key. WEP also typically uses 40 bit static keys for encryption and thus provides weak encryption making a WEP device a target of hackers.

The IEEE 802.11 Working Group is working on a security upgrade for the 802.11 standard called 802.11i. This supplemental draft standard is intended to improve WiLAN security. It describes the encrypted transmission of data between systems 802.11X WiLANs. It also defines new encryption key protocols including the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol TKIP . The IEEE 802.11i draft standard version 4 completed Jun. 6 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.

The 802.11i is based on 802.1x port based authentication for user and device authentication. The 802.11i standard includes two main developments Wi Fi Protected Access WPA and Robust Security Network RSN .

WPA uses the same RC4 underlying encryption algorithm as WEP. However WPA uses TKIP to improve security of keys used with WEP. WPA keys are derived and rotated more often than WEP keys and thus provide additional security. WPA also adds a message integrity check function to prevent packet forgeries.

RSN uses dynamic negotiation of authentication and selectable encryption algorithms between wireless access points and wireless devices. The authentication schemes proposed in the draft standard include Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP . One proposed encryption algorithm is an Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption algorithm.

Dynamic negotiation of authentication and encryption algorithms lets RSN evolve with the state of the art in security adding algorithms to address new threats and continuing to provide the security necessary to protect information that WiLANs carry.

The NIST developed a new encryption standard the Advanced Encryption Standard AES to keep government information secure. AES is intended to be a stronger more efficient successor to Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES . More information on NIST AES can be found at the URL www.nist.gov aes. 

As is known in the art DES is a popular symmetric key encryption method developed in 1975 and standardized by ANSI in 1981 as ANSI X.3.92 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. As is known in the art 3DES is the encrypt decrypt encrypt EDE mode of the DES cipher algorithm. 3DES is defined in the ANSI standard ANSI X9.52 1998 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. DES modes of operation are used in conjunction with the NIST Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS for data encryption FIPS 46 3 October 1999 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for the AES FIPS 197. This standard specified Rijndael encryption as a FIPS approved symmetric encryption algorithm that may be used by U.S. Government organizations and others to protect sensitive information. The NIST FIPS 197 standard AES FIPS PUB 197 November 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

The NIST approved a FIPS for U.S. Federal Government requirements for information technology products for sensitive but unclassified SBU communications. The NIST FIPS Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules FIPS PUB 140 2 May 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art RSA is a public key encryption system which can be used both for encrypting messages and making digital signatures. The letters RSA stand for the names of the inventors Rivest Shamir and Adleman. For more information on RSA see U.S. Pat. No. 4 405 829 now expired incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art hashing is the transformation of a string of characters into a usually shorter fixed length value or key that represents the original string. Hashing is used to index and retrieve items in a database because it is faster to find the item using the shorter hashed key than to find it using the original value. It is also used in many encryption algorithms.

Secure Hash Algorithm SHA is used for computing a secure condensed representation of a data message or a data file. When a message of any length

Message Digest 5 MD 5 takes as input a message of arbitrary length and produces as output a 128 bit message digest of the input. The MD5 algorithm is intended for digital signature applications where a large file must be compressed in a secure manner before being encrypted with a private secret key under a public key cryptosystem such as RSA. The IETF RFC 1321 entitled The MD5 Message Digest Algorithm is incorporated here by reference.

As is known in the art providing a way to check the integrity of information transmitted over or stored in an unreliable medium such as a wireless network is a prime necessity in the world of open computing and communications. Mechanisms that provide such integrity check based on a secret key are called message authentication codes MAC . Typically message authentication codes are used between two parties that share a secret key in order to validate information transmitted between these parties.

Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication Codes HMAC is a mechanism for message authentication using cryptographic hash functions. HMAC is used with any iterative cryptographic hash function e.g. MD5 SHA 1 SHA 512 etc. in combination with a secret shared key. The cryptographic strength of HMAC depends on the properties of the underlying hash function. The IETF RFC 2101 entitled HMAC Keyed Hashing for Message Authentication is incorporated here by reference.

As is known in the art an Electronic Code Book ECB is a mode of operation for a block cipher with the characteristic that each possible block of plaintext has a defined corresponding cipher text value and vice versa. In other words the same plaintext value will always result in the same cipher text value. Electronic Code Book is used when a volume of plaintext is separated into several blocks of data each of which is then encrypted independently of other blocks. The Electronic Code Book has the ability to support a separate encryption key for each block type.

As is known in the art Diffie and Hellman DH describe several different group methods for two parties to agree upon a shared secret in such a way that the secret will be unavailable to eavesdroppers. This secret is then converted into various types of cryptographic keys. A large number of the variants of the DH method exist including ANSI X9.42. The IETF RFC 2631 entitled Diffie Hellman Key Agreement Method is incorporated here by reference.

However the present invention is not limited to the security or encryption techniques described and other security or encryption techniques can also be used.

As is known in the art the HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP Secure HTTPs is a standard for encrypted communications on the World Wide Web. HTTPs is actually just HTTP over a Secure Sockets Layer SSL . For more information on HTTP see IETF RFC 2616 incorporated herein by reference.

As is known in the art the SSL protocol is a protocol layer which may be placed between a reliable connection oriented network layer protocol e.g. TCP IP and the application protocol layer e.g. HTTP . SSL provides for secure communication between a source and destination by allowing mutual authentication the use of digital signatures for integrity and encryption for privacy.

The SSL protocol is designed to support a range of choices for specific security methods used for cryptography message digests and digital signatures. The security method are negotiated between the source and destination at the start of establishing a protocol session. The SSL 2.0 protocol specification by Kipp E. B. Hickman 1995 is incorporated herein by reference. More information on SSL is available at the URL See netscape.com eng security SSL2.html. 

As is known in the art Transport Layer Security TLS provides communications privacy over the Internet. The protocol allows client server applications to communicate over a transport layer e.g. TCP in a way that is designed to prevent eavesdropping tampering or message forgery. For more information on TLS see IETF RFC 2246 incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the security functionality includes Cisco Compatible EXtensions CCX . CCX includes security specifications for makers of 802.11xx wireless LAN chips for ensuring compliance with Cisco s proprietary wireless security LAN protocols. As is known in the art Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. is supplier of networking hardware and software including router and security products.

LDAP may be used with X.509 security. X.509 is public key digital certificate standard developed as part of the X.500 directory specification. X.509 is used for secure management and distribution of digitally signed certificates across networks.

In one embodiment of the invention the document registration application is a cloud communications software application stored as plural instructions in a computer readable medium on the target network devices and the server network devices labeled on the server network devices . The plural instructions cause one or more processors on the devices to execute the cloud communications software application from the non transitory computer readable medium. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and the cloud communications application can include firmware hardware or a combination thereof.

The electronic document registration system includes an Automated Documentation Registration System ADRS . Users of the Automated Document Registration System ADRS are referred to as Subscribers. Subscribers are divided into two types 1 document Submitters and 2 document Receivers.

A Subscriber account allows a user to act as both Submitter and Receiver for electronic documents. Submitting an electronic file including an original electronic document to the ADRS is referred to in this document both as Submit and Check In. 

The ADRS records transaction events and establishes date time stamps to securely register electronic files. The transaction events are performed in a redundant manner to increase reliability decrease the possibility of error and also virtually eliminate the possibility of tampering by a hacker for example since multiple separate data sources would have to be modified in the same way at the same time to escape detection.

The checking in processing sharing and receiving of files on the ADRS is based on rules meant to protect the integrity of the Subscribers and their electronic data files. Some rules are fixed system wide such as encrypted files are only viewable by the Submitter and by Subscribers the document was shared with. Some rules are established on a per file local basis such as the grouping and sub grouping of files or the sharing of a file which changes the viewing permission rules for the file. In effect the rules define the actions of a unique virtual file system that is a component of the ADRS .

In at Step the first application automatically generates plural electronic document registration codes for the secure transformed electronic document. The plural electronic document registration codes includes but is not limited to an unalterable date and time stamp an identification code and one or more encryption codes. At Step the secure transformed electronic document is securely transferred from the target network device via a communications network to a server network device with one or more processors one or more databases and a second application executing in a second computer readable medium on the sever network device. The secure transformed electronic document can be securely viewed via other target devices via the communications network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure transformed electronic document thereby providing an automatic secure electronic document registration system.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step an original electronic document is received via a first application stored in a computer readable medium on a target network device with one or more processors.

In one embodiment the original electronic document includes a legal document e.g. a contract deed title stock option grant will trust etc. and or a non legal document e.g. a manuscript etc. .

At Step the first application automatically applies a first set of electronic document registration rules to the original electronic document. The first set of electronic document registration rules include document registration rules applied to all original electronic documents being registered via the automatic document registration system i.e. is an application of a system wide set of rules thereby creating a first level modified electronic document.

For example the first set of electronic document registration rules may include rules to be applied for a file type e.g. Microsoft Word Portable Data Format PDF etc. a type of encryption e.g. DES MD5 etc. a type of file compression etc.

In one embodiment the first set of electronic document registration rules includes credential rules. In such an embodiment at Step credentials for a user of the target network device are verified. In such an embodiment the credentials are verified automatically based on a stored static user profile. In another embodiment the credentials are verified automatically and dynamically by having a user enter a password complete a biometric scan etc. that is accepted on the first application . In another embodiment the credentials are automatically read from a user profile file by application . However the present invention is not limited to these embodiments and other embodiments may also be used to practice the invention.

At Step a second set of electronic document registration rules is applied via the first application to the first level modified electronic document thereby creating a second level modified electronic document. The second set of electronic document registration rules include local document registration rules applied only via the application on the target network device i.e. is an application of a local set of rules .

For example the second set of electronic document registration rules may include a file type e.g. Microsoft Word Portable Data Format PDF etc. a type of file compression a display type e.g. type of graphical window font color font size etc. etc. set up and used only the target device .

In one embodiment steps and are accomplished by automatically applying the first and second set of rules stored in a document profile stored in the computer readable medium on the target network device .

The organization of stored files into security groups and security sub groups is similar to the use of directories and subdirectories in a file system but can be virtually overlayed to provide different views for different users. In one embodiment a single file can reside in plural pre determined security groups and sub groups at the same time but only in one pre determined file association. In another embodiment a single file can reside in plural file associations and plural security groups and sub groups at a same time. In one embodiment the association of files into groups and sub groups include the centralized database model using LDAP described above. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other embodiments may also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the one or more databases associated with the server network devices form a virtual file system that creates a virtual matrixed directory structure by establishing file accesses based on assigning secure transformed electronic files to any number of security groups and security sub groups and any number of viewing groups and sub groups instead of designating the files to directories and subdirectories in the virtual file system. The virtual matrixed directory structure can be overlaid to plural viewers and or auditors who have permission to view a Sharing subscriber s securely transformed electronic documents using the various security groups and sub groups and viewing groups and sub groups.

The sharing of files based on the security groups and security sub groups of that matrix adds a layer to the virtualness as subsets of a Sharing Subscriber s virtual directory matrix are overlaid on the Receiving Subscriber s virtual directory with the possibility of multiple Receiving Subscribers each having a unique virtual view of multiple Sharing Subscribers virtual directories.

The system described herein has an additional advantage of including a description component at each security group and sub group level. The organizational description components automatically provide a significant amount of description for an electronic document to be securely registered. The security group and sub group descriptions combined with the individual file description that the user is allowed to enter provide a high degree of description for each file while minimizing the per file description efforts.

As is illustrated in At the top of the screen there is a top level security grouping level called Subject and below that is a security sub group level called Category . Subject and category are use as group and sub group terms in this description.

To the right of the page are three sub screens that are used to manage grouping Profiles groups Subjects and sub groups Categories . The user can add whatever subject and categories are suitable for their organization. Each subject and category can be given a description which is inherited by each document that is associated with them.

In one embodiment user Profiles are comprised of pre defined subsets of security group sub group combinations. Profiles ease the process for Subscribers of organizing files to be Checked In and can be configured into an automated or automatic Check In process that can reduce or eliminate the user s involvement and intervention in the process to apply local rules and system wide rules from the first set and second set of document registration rules.

To Check In an electronic document stored in a file or plural files a User selects a Profile and or a set of Subjects and Categories to be associated with the file s that are automatically registered via Method . In one embodiment the User pre selects the Profile for use by Method . In another embodiment a default Profile is used. In another embodiment a graphical screen e.g. etc. is displayed so a user can manually select or re select a Profile. However the present invention is not limited to these embodiments and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In at the bottom of the example screen there is also an area shown where the User can indicate original electronic file s or whole directory s of original electronic files to be uploaded from their local system. Then User may enter an individual description for the file s to be uploaded. This embodiment provides the User with a high degree of flexibility in organizing and describing documents for storage retrieval and sharing of automatically registered electronic documents.

At Step the second level modified electronic document is automatically transformed via the first application into a secure electronic document storage format using a pre determined set of electronic document transformation rules thereby creating a secure transformed electronic document. The secure transformed electronic document includes an encrypted and not viewable format a message digest or hashed not view able format a read only viewable format a digital image format a portable data format PDF and other types of transformed formats that are viewable and or not viewable. The encryption includes private encryption with private only encryption keys and public private key encryption.

Step includes processing the second level modified electronic document for protection and identification of Checked In file. Different embodiments use one or more or all of the following techniques illustrated in Table 1. In some cases the embodiment could depending on the file type for example word processing files are treated differently than non visual data files such as audio video graphical files etc. In one embodiment selected ones of the techniques in Table 1 are used via application . In another embodiment all techniques listed in Table 1 are used via application and or .

The processing data file information and files generated during the processing step will be associated with the file and stored in the ADRS .

In at Step the first application automatically generates plural electronic document registration codes for the secure transformed electronic document The plural electronic document registration codes include but are not limited to an unalterable date and time stamp an identification code and one or more encryption codes.

In one embodiment the date and time stamp is securely obtained from a trusted external third party data time stamp system . For example the data and time stamp may be obtained from an interface to system providing International Atomic Time IAT . IAT is a high precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on Earth s geoid. It is the principal realization of Terrestrial Time and the basis for Coordinated Universal Time UTC which is used for civil timekeeping all over the Earth s surface. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other date time systems can also be used to practice the invention.

The third party date time stamp subsystem provides a highly redundant highly reliable method of file time verification. The ADRS employs this method because basing the date time stamp on the local computer system time would make the ADRS potentially unreliable because of the possibility of tampering or error and the use of a single external time source introduces the possibility of an inaccurate or missing date time stamp as a result of system outage system error network outage or network delay ADRS modules in application that perform file transactions such as file check in re classification sharing or other transaction make requests from this external date time subsystem .

When a date time stamp is requested by a ADRS application module it submits requests to a number of objective external time server sources such as those operated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology the Naval Observatory the Greenwich Observatory or the like . The date time stamp information is received from the external sources by this subsystem. This subsystem associates each of the external time results with their respective sources and returns the information to the requesting module.

In one embodiment results from all sources are returned to the requesting module in application . In another implementation the date time stamp subsystem provides some level of intelligence to determine a single time result from the multiple results. For example if four sources produce an identical time and a fifth disagrees this subsystem establishes the time produced by the majority as a single official time for that transaction etc.

In another embodiment the date and time stamp is securely obtained from a trusted internal data time stamp system . For example reliable secure internal time servers are commercially available for time stamping auditing authentication protocols and file data logs. Spectracom s NetClock is an example of such one such commercial date time system. Netclock provides a secure internal time and date server. Spectracom NetClock systems are based on Global Position System GPS technology with Legally Traceable Time a precise timestamp determined tracking up to twelve satellites simultaneously and synchronizing to the satellites atomic clocks. This provides a direct traceability path to national and international standards. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other external internal commercial and private date time systems can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment a copy of the date time stamp is encrypted with an encryption key only known to application on the target device. A copy of the encrypted date time stamp is included with the secure transformed electronic document as an additional security safeguard backup. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and embodiments can also be used to practice the invention and the date time stamp need not be encrypted and or stored on the secure transformed electronic document.

In one embodiment a user biometric collected from a user of the target network device is encrypted with an encryption key only know to application on the target device. A copy of the encrypted user biometric is included with the secure transformed electronic document as an additional security safeguard backup. For example on the identical user that created the user biometric would be allowed to access the secure transformed electronic document. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and embodiments can also be used to practice the invention and the user biometric need not be encrypted and or stored on the secure transformed electronic document.

In one embodiment the ADRS generates a globally network unique sequence number and a document identifier for each file. The globally unique sequence number is a unique number based on all files on the ADRS .

In one embodiment the globally unique sequence number is for example a Universally Unique Identifier UUID that is an identifier standard used in software construction standardized by the Open Software Foundation that is globally unique across time and space.

As is known in the software arts UUIDs are documented as part of ISO IEC 11578 1996 Information technology Open Systems Interconnection Remote Procedure Call RPC and more recently in ITU T Rec. X.667 ISO IEC 9834 8 2005. The IETF has published Proposed Standard RFC 4122 that is technically equivalent with ITU T Rec. X.667 ISO IEC 9834 8 the contents of all of which are incorporated by reference.

In another embodiment the globally network unique sequence number includes a software identifier as well as a hardware identifier e.g. a TCP UCP port an IP address a MAC address a network card identifier etc. .

However the present invention is not limited to the globally network unique sequence numbers described and other types of globally network unique sequence numbers can also be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the document identifier is a unique ADRS system identifier that is a set of alphabetic and numeric characters that includes certain coded organizational information in it. However the present invention is not limited to the document identifiers described and other types of document identifiers can also be used to practice the invention. For example a user identifier a site identifier a year identifier a document identifier etc. e.g. john smith boston1 2009 123AF4567 etc. .

In one embodiment the one or more encryption codes include but are not limited to public private encryption keys a type of encryption e.g. AES DES MD5 a type of secure communications e.g. SSL TLS etc. message digest codes secure hash codes etc.

The logging and reporting sub system provides a highly redundant highly reliable method of tracking and verifying all file transactions executed by the ADRS . It allows Subscribers to review a detailed transaction history for individual documents or to generate reports detailing all aspects of Submitting Sharing and Receiving files on the ADRS .

The ADRS employs redundancy in transaction recording to provide a higher level of assurance regarding the integrity of the ADRS to subscribers. In one specific exemplary embodiment each automatic electronic document registration transaction is assigned a sequential serial number which fixes it within the timeframe of the preceding and succeeding transactions. In addition the file transaction records are written to multiple locations on multiple server network devices . The system has the ability to verify the transaction records from multiple sources to detect errors and guard against potential hacking or tampering of any kind that would compromise the integrity of the system . File transaction requests are received by this subsystem from the ADRS application modules that control the file transactions.

In one embodiment when a transaction logging request is submitted to the subsystem a serial identification number is requested. Based on the type of transaction being logged a transaction log record is assembled. That record is then written to redundant databases and the information is make available to the ADRS for reports and verification.

In one embodiment a date time stamp is requested by this subsystem from the date time subsystem . In another implementation the date time stamp used is provided by the requesting module as the requesting module would have the most accurate time with regard to transactions such as file uploading. In another embodiment the logging module and the reporting module both independently request a date time stamp from the date time subsystem . In another embodiment transaction logging redundancy is implemented in another it is not. However the present invention is not limited to the these embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In one specific exemplary embodiment when the file processing is completed at Step the Logging and Reporting Subsystem within application of the ADRS is called to record the ADRS transactions completed with regard to this file. The Logging and Reporting Subsystem is used in part when a User pays a fee to use ADRS . However the present invention is not limited to the this embodiment and the ADRS can be used without payment or recording or checking of any fees for use.

In one embodiment before making the transformed electronic document available for use in the ADRS the Subscriber s file count and disk usage are compared to their current subscription plan and payment status. Depending on the embodiment if additional payment is required this could result in a request for payment being generated or it could result in the updating of the data to be used to generate the Subscriber s regular invoice. Once the Subscriber s usage and billing status has been verified the registered file is made available to the Subscriber for viewing and sharing.

Returning to at Step the secure transformed electronic document is securely transferred e.g. sent via encrypted hashed message digested SSLed TLSed etc. from the target network device e.g. etc. via a communications network to a server network device with one or more processors one or more databases and a second application executing in a second computer readable medium on the sever network device . The secure transformed electronic document can be viewed via other target devices via the communications network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure transformed electronic document thereby providing an automatic secure electronic document registration system . In one embodiment the application on the target network device also securely transfers the original electronic document from the target network device to the server network device for storage in the databases .

Subscribers who submit files to the ADRS via Method may have a need to edit a file that has been previously submitted. The ADRS allows the editing or modification of any file because the original file is always retained on the ADRS .

The Subscriber can designate a Checked In file for editing. The Subscriber would then initiate a download or transfer of that file to a target network device under their control. The Subscriber may perform any number of edits over any timeframe without restriction from the ADRS .

When the Subscriber has completed the editing process the edited version of the file must be Checked In to the ADRS following Method . The original electronics file s contents properties classifications and description are not modified in any way by the ADRS . The new file s contents properties classifications and descriptions are maintained independently of the original file. The only distinction made by the ADRS at Check In using Method between a completely new file and a file that has been Checked Out and edited is with regard to its file version. In one embodiment of the system file deletion is not allowed on the ADRS thereby providing permanent recording of electronic documents and their associated files. In another embodiment the ADRS allows files to be deleted.

As was discussed above when a file is Checked In to the ADRS the Subscriber can manually and or automatically via Profile assign subjects categories and descriptions to it. The ADRS allows Subscribers to update these file characteristics without compromising the integrity of the original file itself or its unalterable date time stamp.

The Subscriber can designate a Checked In file to update. The Subscriber may then as desired remove subjects and categories or add them in a similar method as performed when the file is checked in. Since it is possible to share all documents with a given subject or category when the Subscriber tries to add or delete a subject or category that would alter the shared unshared status of a file the ADRS notifies the Subscriber as appropriate. A particular action may be prohibited by the configuration rules or the action may require the Subscriber to confirm the share unshare transactions implied by the change. The Subscriber may also update the file description etc.

In one embodiment during an Accept Changes step before the ADRS update step is completed the original subject category and description values are saved and included with the transaction log request along with all implied share unshare transactions to be logged. In this way the ADRS maintains a detailed history record ensure the integrity of all files and file transactions for its Subscribers.

In one embodiment of the ADRS updating the subjects classifications and description of a file may not be modified after the file has been Checked In. In another embodiment the file descriptive components of the file may be modified after Check In.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step a request is received via a communications network from a first application in a first computer readable medium on a target network device on a second application in a second computer readable medium on a server network device with one or more processors to view a secure transformed electronic document stored in one or more databases associated with the server network device . The secure transformed electronic document is transformed from an original electronic file using Method .

At Step the server network device verifies the first application on the target network device is allowed to view the requested secure transformed electronic file as was discussed above.

The ADRS provides secure time verified document access between two entities e.g. and . On the ADRS the sharing and receiving entities are referred to as Subscribers. Entities that are not verified ADRS Subscribers will not have access to the system and therefore will not be able to Submit Share or Receive files as described herein.

In one embodiment in order to Share file s with another Subscriber the Sharing Subscriber either selects a verified subscriber from the ADRS directory or enters sufficient identifying information e.g. name email address organization name address website etc . The ADRS then first attempts to identify a matching Subscriber in an ADRS directory and provide that Subscriber to the Sharing Subscriber for acceptance with a file receipt designation process .

If the intended Receiver accepts the invitation to become a Subscriber and is verified by the ADRS the Sharing Subscriber is notified that the Receiving Subscriber has been verified. If the intended Receiver declines the Subscription invitation to ADRS or if the invitation expires or if an attempt to subscribe was made but the ADRS could not verify the file Sharing request will be denied. In one embodiment the ADRS permits Subscribers to have private non viewable by other Subscribers directory entries in another embodiment it will not. In one embodiment The System Logging and Reporting Sub system of application is called to record all key transactions that take place during the ADRS recipient designation process .

If the intended Receiver is not in the ADRS directory they will be notified of the attempt to share files with them and they are invited to become ADRS Subscribers via a file sharing process .

In one embodiment when the Sharing Subscriber has selected a verified Receiver and created a file list they then initiate the ADRS file sharing process . As with the other ADRS processes it is designed with redundancy and confirmation of action to achieve the purpose of secure reliable sharing of time verified file information between two approved Subscribers.

When the file sharing process is initiated the ADRS sends an invitation to the Designated Subscriber to accept Receipt of the shared files. If the Designated Subscriber declines the Share invitation or the invitation expires the Share operation fails and the Sharing Subscriber is notified. If the Receiver accepts the invitation their identifying information and the list of shared files is sent back to the Sharing Subscriber for confirmation before the files become available to the Receiver.

This is a safeguard step for the protection of the Subscribers and the sensitive information that they will store on the ADRS The Sharing Subscriber has the ability to cancel their own Share request upon review of the Receiving Subscriber s acceptance notification. The Sharing Subscriber might notice some files in the list that don t belong there perhaps two Subscribers have similar names and they accidentally selected the wrong one perhaps they absent mindedly entered another subscriber that they have dealings with but who should not have access to the files. The Sharing Subscriber s specific reasoning for canceling their own Share request is not important but the value provided to Subscribers by this embodiment of the invention is clear.

If the Sharing Subscriber accepts the Share confirmation message from the ADRS the files will then appear in the Receiving Subscriber s file list. As approved Receiver the Shared documents will decrypt for viewing on demand by Receiver. The Receiving Subscriber will be able to verify the contents of the file as of the date time stamp established by the ADRS as of the time that the file was Checked In.

In one embodiment the file Un Share process is relatively simple as it is based only on a decision by the Sharing Subscriber to terminate the viewing rights of the Receiving Subscriber. In this case the Sharing Subscriber updates the sharing rights for the and the process is complete. An optional step would allow the Sharing Subscriber to notify the Receiving Subscriber of this action.

In another embodiment of the ADRS the Un Sharing of documents may require approval of the Receiving Subscriber or may not be allowed at all in certain defined cases. There are many possible reasons for creating this type of file sharing relationship between the Sharing and Receiving Subscribers. For example there could be a mutual agreement where files are being shared in each direction or there could be some contractual or regulatory requirement. In one embodiment the system logging and reporting Subsystem is called to record all key transactions that take place during the ADRS file sharing process .

At Step the server network device securely retrieves a copy of the requested secure transformed electronic document from the one or more databases .

Returning to at Step the requested document is securely transferred to first application on the target network device from the second application on the server network device for secure viewing.

Subscribers have the ability to navigate and manage their Submitted and Received files on the ADRS . The System enables them to view and manipulate files in a sortable list format or in a file system directory type layout depending on the embodiment.

Subscribers may view files logged in to the ADRS or via a desktop application provided by ADRS that provides the Subscriber with a virtual view of their files and file information stored ADRS from their desktop.

In one embodiment file lists display key information including but not limited to the organization and name of submitter the original filename and file size Check In date grouping and sub grouping categories link to the original file for viewing or downloading symbols indicating whether the file is Shared with other Subscribers or has been Received from another Subscriber a link to a file detail page a link to begin the file sharing process only if the viewer has the rights to the file file type etc.

The file detail page displays detailed information about the file including but not limited to all file characteristics details description text associated with the groups sub groups and the file itself if the file is being Shared with other subscribers a list of all Receivers the date shared and expiration of sharing period if applicable if the file was Received from another Subscriber that Subscriber s identifying information.

The method and system described herein provide an automatic document registration system that creates a secure transformed electronic document with an unalterable time and date stamp. Multiple third parties are provided an ability to view a given original document in secure transformed electronic document format and each original individual document is provided with unique set of approved third party receivers viewers auditors via a virtual matrixed file system.

The methods and systems described above and illustrated in are also used in a cloud computing environment on a cloud communications network .

This exemplary cloud communications model for intelligent electronic information processing promotes availability for shared resources and comprises 1 cloud communications essential characteristics 2 cloud communications service models and 3 cloud communications deployment models. However the present invention is not limited to this cloud communications model and other cloud communications models can also be used to practice the invention.

The cloud communications network provides on demand self service broad network access resource pooling rapid elasticity and measured electronic services for electronic storage and retrieval.

The cloud source network devices include server network devices . In another embodiment the cloud source network devices include a gateway and or router and or switch and or edge server network device each with one or more processors.

In one embodiment the cloud server network devices and or the target network devices include a wireless networking interface comprising 4generation 4G Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax Long Term Evolution LTE wireless interface in communications with the cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other types of wireless networking interfaces can be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud communications essential characteristics appear in Table 2. However the present invention is not limited to these essential characteristics and more fewer or other characteristics can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud communications service models illustrated in appear in Table 3. However the present invention is not limited to these service models and more fewer or other service models can also be used to practice the invention.

Exemplary cloud computing deployment models appear in Table 4. However the present invention is not limited to these deployment models and more fewer or other deployment models can also be used to practice the invention.

Cloud software services for electronic document registration takes full advantage of the cloud paradigm by being service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability for electronic content retrieval. However cloud software services can include various states.

In on exemplary embodiment the application offers additional cloud services for electronic document registration. The application offers the cloud computing Infrastructure as a Service IaaS including a cloud software service the cloud Platform as a Service PaaS including a cloud software service and or offers Specific cloud software services as a Service SaaS including a cloud software service . The IaaS PaaS and SaaS include one or more of cloud services comprising networking storage server network device virtualization operating system middleware run time data and or application services or plural combinations thereof on the cloud communications network .

The source and target cloud computing applications include a cloud computing based electronic document registration service CCSA a cloud computing platform CCP for the electronic document registration service and a cloud computing infrastructure CCI for the electronic document registration service.

The cloud applications provide electronic document registration from internet television services search engine services and or social networking services. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and the cloud applications may provide electronic document registration from more fewer or other services.

The cloud applications provide electronic document registration from television services over the cloud communications network . The television services include CATV satellite TV Internet television Web TV Internet Protocol Television IPtv and or broadcast television services.

 Internet television allows users to choose a program or the television show they want to watch from an archive of programs or from a channel directory. The two forms of viewing Internet television are streaming content directly to a media player or simply downloading a program to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Web TV delivers digital content via non mesh broadband and mobile networks. The digital content is streamed to a viewer s set top box game console computer or other mesh network device.

 Internet Protocol television IPtv is a system through which Internet television services are delivered using the architecture and networking methods of the Internet Protocol Suite over a packet switched network infrastructure e.g. the Internet and broadband Internet access networks instead of being delivered through traditional radio frequency broadcast satellite signal and cable television CATV formats.

However the present invention is not limited to such Internet Television services and more fewer and or other Internet Television services can be used to practice the invention.

The cloud applications provide electronic document registration from general search engine services. A search engine is designed to search for information on a cloud communications network such as the Internet including World Wide Web servers FTP servers etc. The search results are generally presented in a list of electronic results. The information may consist of web pages images electronic information multimedia information and other types of files. Some search engines also mine data available in databases or open directories. Unlike web directories which are maintained by human editors search engines typically operate algorithmically and or are a mixture of algorithmic and human input.

The cloud applications provide electronic document registration from general search engine services as stand alone services. In another embodiment the applications provide general search engine services by interacting with one or more other public search engines e.g. GOOGLE BING YAHOO etc. and or private search engine services.

The cloud applications also provide electronic document registration from specialized search engine services such as vertical search engine services by interacting with one or more other public vertical search engines e.g. GALAXY.COM etc. and or private search engine services.

However the present invention is not limited to providing electronic document registration from such general and or vertical search engine services and more fewer and or other types of electronic document registration can be provided from other types of general sand or specialized search engine services can be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the cloud applications provide electronic document registration from one or more social media networking services including to from one or more social media networking web sites e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER YOUTUBE LINKEDIN GOOGLE PINTEREST TUMBLR FLICKR INSTAGRAM MYSPACE SKYPE MEETUP MATCH.COM E HARMONY GROUP ON SOCIAL LIVING etc. . The social media networking web sites also include but are not limited to social couponing sites dating web sites blogs RSS ATOM feeds and other types of information web sites in which messages can be left or posted for a variety of social activities.

However the present invention is not limited to the social networking services described and other public and private social networking services can also be used to practice the invention.

Cloud storage of secure electronic document registrations on a cloud communications network includes agility scalability elasticity and multi tenancy. Although a storage foundation may be comprised of block storage or file storage such as that exists on conventional networks cloud storage is typically only exposed to requesters of desired electronic content as cloud storage objects e.g. etc. .

The cloud storage object includes an envelope portion with a header portion and a body portion . However the present invention is not limited to such a cloud storage object and other cloud storage objects and other cloud storage objects with more fewer or other portions can also be used to practice the invention.

The envelope portion uses unique namespace Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and or Uniform Resource Names URNs and or Uniform Resource Locators URLs unique across the cloud communications network to specify location and version information and encoding rules used by the cloud storage object . For more information see IETF RFC 3305 Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs URLs and Uniform Resource Names URNs the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The envelope portion of the cloud storage object is followed by a header portion . The header portion includes extended information about the cloud storage objects such as authorization and or transaction information etc.

The body portion includes methods i.e. a sequence of instructions etc. for using embedded application specific data in data elements . The body portion typically includes only one portion of plural portions of the application specific data so the cloud storage object can provide distributed redundant fault tolerant security and privacy features described herein.

Cloud storage objects have proven experimentally to be a secure highly scalable distributed available and reliable layer of abstraction that also minimizes the limitations of common file systems. Cloud storage objects also provide low latency and low storage and transmission costs.

Cloud storage objects are comprised of plural distributed storage locations but function as a single storage object are highly fault tolerant through redundancy and provide distribution of desired electronic content across public communication networks and one or more private networks community networks and hybrid networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are also highly durable because they also initiate creation of copies of portions of desired electronic content across such networks of the cloud communications network . Cloud storage objects are stored on one or more of the networks of the cloud communications network and or on the target network device . Cloud storage objects are transparent to a requester of desired electronic content and are managed by cloud computing application .

Cloud storage objects comprise plural storage objects distributed on cloud source network devices and or other storage devices e.g. gateway router bridge switch edge server etc. and or the target network devices with a size up to hundreds of terabytes each accompanied by with a few kilobytes of metadata. Cloud storage objects are organized into and each identified by a unique identifier unique across the whole cloud communications network . However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

Cloud storage objects present a single unified namespace or object space and manages desired electronic content by user or administrator defined policies storage and retrieval policies.

In one exemplary embodiment cloud storage objects include Representational state transfer REST Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and or an Application Programming Interface API and or other types of cloud storage objects. However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

REST characterizes and constrains macro interactions of the four components of a cloud communications network namely origin servers gateways proxies and clients without imposing limitations on the individual participants.

SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of cloud services. SOAP has at least three major characteristics 1 Extensibility including security encryption routing etc. 2 Neutrality SOAP can be used over any transport protocol such as HTTP SMTP or even TCP etc. and 3 Independence SOAP allows for almost any programming model to be used etc. 

An API is a particular set of rules and specifications that software programs can follow to communicate with each other. It serves as an interface between different software programs and facilitates their interaction.

In at Step an original electronic document is received on a first cloud application stored in a non transitory computer readable medium on a target network device with one or more processors via a cloud communications network. The cloud communications network comprises one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks. At Step the first cloud application automatically applies a first set of electronic document registration rules to the original electronic document. The first set of electronic document registration rules include document registration rules applied to all electronic document being registered via an automatic document registration system thereby creating a first level modified electronic document. At Step the first cloud application automatically applies a second set of electronic document registration rules to the first level modified electronic document thereby creating a second level modified electronic document. The second set of electronic document registration rules include local document registration rules applied only via the cloud application on the target network device.

In at Step the first cloud application automatically transforms the second level modified electronic document into a secure cloud electronic document storage format using a pre determined set of electronic document transformation rules thereby creating a secure cloud transformed electronic document. At Step the first cloud application automatically generates plural electronic document registration codes for the secure cloud transformed electronic document. The plural electronic document registration codes include an unalterable date and time stamp an identification code and one or more encryption codes. At Step the first application from the target network device securely transfers the secure cloud transformed electronic document via the via the cloud communications network to a cloud server network device with one or more processors one or more different databases and a second cloud application executing in a second non transitory computer readable medium on the sever network device.

In at Step a second cloud application on the cloud server network device stores the secure cloud transformed electronic document as a cloud storage object. The cloud storage object comprises plural separate portions stored in plural separate secure storage locations on plural other different cloud server network devices distributed across the cloud communications network but functions as a single secure cloud storage object. The first cloud application on the target network device cannot determine which other different cloud server network devices on the one or more public private community or hybrid networks on the cloud communications network may have stored the cloud storage object or portions thereof thereby providing additional security and privacy for the secure cloud transformed electronic document. The secure cloud transformed electronic document can be viewed via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on the cloud communications network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document thereby providing an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step original electronic document is received on a first cloud application stored in a non transitory computer readable medium on a target network device with one or more processors via a cloud communications network . The cloud communications network comprises one or more private networks one or more community networks one or more hybrid networks and or one or more public networks .

In one embodiment the original electronic document includes a legal document e.g. a contract deed title stock option grant will trust etc. and or a non legal document e.g. a manuscript etc. .

At Step the first cloud application automatically applies a first set of electronic document registration rules to the original electronic document . The first set of electronic document registration rules include document registration rules applied to all original electronic documents being registered via the automatic document registration system i.e. is an application of a system wide set of rules thereby creating a first level modified electronic document.

For example the first set of electronic document registration rules may include rules to be applied for a file type e.g. Microsoft Word Portable Data Format PDF etc. a type of encryption e.g. DES MD5 etc. a type of file compression etc.

In one embodiment the first set of electronic document registration rules includes credential rules. In such an embodiment at Step credentials for a user of the target network device are verified. In such an embodiment the credentials are verified automatically based on a stored static user profile. In another embodiment the credentials are verified automatically and dynamically by having a user enter a password complete a biometric scan etc. that is accepted on the first application . In another embodiment the credentials are automatically read from a user profile file by application . However the present invention is not limited to these embodiments and other embodiments may also be used to practice the invention.

At Step a second set of electronic document registration rules is applied via the first cloud application to the first level modified electronic document thereby creating a second level modified electronic document. The second set of electronic document registration rules include local document registration rules applied only via the application on the target network device i.e. is an application of a local set of rules .

For example the second set of electronic document registration rules may include a file type e.g. Microsoft Word Portable Data Format PDF etc. a type of file compression a display type e.g. type of graphical window font color font size etc. etc. set up and used only the target device .

In one embodiment Steps and are accomplished by automatically applying the first and second set of rules stored in a document profile stored in the non transitory computer readable medium on the target network device .

At Step the first cloud application automatically transforms the second level modified electronic document into a secure cloud electronic document storage format using a pre determined set of electronic document transformation rules thereby creating a secure cloud transformed electronic document . e.g. see Table 1 and corresponding explanation above etc. 

In at Step the first cloud application automatically generates plural electronic document registration codes for the secure cloud transformed electronic document . The plural electronic document registration codes include an unalterable date and time stamp an identification code and one or more encryption codes. e.g. see and corresponding explanation above etc. .

At Step the first cloud application from the target network device securely transfers the secure cloud transformed electronic document via the via the cloud communications network to a cloud server network device with one or more processors one or more different databases and a second cloud application executing in a second non transitory computer readable medium on the server network device .

In at Step second cloud application on the cloud server network device stores the secure cloud transformed electronic document as a cloud storage object . The cloud storage object comprises plural separate portions stored in plural separate secure storage locations on plural other different cloud server network devices distributed across the cloud communications network but functions as a single secure cloud storage object . The first cloud application on the target network device cannot determine which other different cloud server network devices on the one or more public private community or hybrid networks on the cloud communications network may have stored the cloud storage object or portions thereof thereby providing additional security and privacy for the secure cloud transformed electronic document .

In one exemplary embodiment cloud storage objects include REST SOAP API and or other types of cloud storage objects . However the present invention is not limited to the cloud storage objects described and more fewer and other types of cloud storage objects can be used to practice the invention.

The secure cloud transformed electronic document is viewed via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on the cloud communications network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document thereby providing an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network .

At Step a request is received from the first cloud application on the target network device via the cloud communications network on the second cloud application the cloud server network device to view a selected secure cloud transformed electronic document stored on the cloud communications network. At Step the second cloud application on the cloud server network device verifies the first cloud application on the target network device is allowed to view the requested secure cloud transformed electronic file. At Step the second cloud application on the server network device securely retrieves a copy of the requested secure transformed electronic document from the other different cloud server network devices on the cloud communications network. At Step the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document is securely transferred to the first cloud application on the target network device from the second cloud application on the server network device via the cloud communications network for secure viewing on the first cloud application.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment at Step a request is received from the first cloud application on the target network device via the cloud communications network on the second cloud application the cloud server network device to view a selected secure cloud transformed electronic document stored on the cloud communications network.

At Step the second cloud application on the cloud server network device verifies the first cloud application on the target network device is allowed to view the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document . See and corresponding explanation above etc. .

At Step the second cloud application on the cloud server network device securely retrieves a copy of the requested secure transformed electronic document from the other different one or more server network devices on the cloud communications network .

In one embodiment Step includes retrieving securely plural portions of the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document as the plural portions of the cloud storage object from the plural separate secure storage locations on the plurality of other different cloud server network devices distributed and stored across the one or more public communication networks one or more private networks one or more community networks and one or more hybrid networks of the cloud communications network . The retrieved plural potions of the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document are combined into a complete electronic document for secure viewing on the first cloud application as the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document .

In on embodiment the combining step includes combining the plural portions of the cloud storage object into one portion of the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document by extracting information from the plural portions e.g. plural portions of etc. of the cloud storage object and placing the extracted information into a pre determined format for the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document .

However the invention is not limited to these embodiments Method can be practiced with and or without the additional steps described.

Returning to Step the requested secure cloud transformed electronic document is securely transferred to the first cloud application on the target network device from the second cloud application on the cloud server network device via the cloud communications network for secure viewing on the first cloud application .

The methods and systems described herein provide an automatic cloud document registration system that creates a secure cloud transformed electronic document with an unalterable time and date stamp stored in a cloud storage object. The cloud storage object comprises plural separate portions stored in plural separate secure storage locations on plural other different server network devices distributed across the cloud communications network but functions as a single secure cloud storage object. Target and server network devices cannot determine which other different server network devices on the one or more public private community or hybrid networks on the cloud communications network may have stored the cloud storage object or portions thereof thereby providing additional security and privacy for the secure cloud transformed electronic document. Multiple third parties are provided an ability to view a given original document in secure cloud transformed electronic document format and each original individual document is provided with unique set of approved third party receivers viewers auditors via a virtual matrixed file system that is useable and allows the secure cloud transformed electronic document to be viewed from anywhere on the cloud communications network.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

In such an exemplary embodiment in at Step an original electronic document is received on a first application in a non transitory computer readable medium on a target network device with one or more processors from a social media network via a cloud communications network .

In one embodiment the social medial network includes a FACEBOOK TWITTER YOUTUBE LINKEDIN GOOGLE PINTEREST TUMBLR FLICKR INSTAGRAM MYSPACE SKYPE MEETUP and or other social media networks. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and more fewer or other types of social media networks may be used to practice the invention.

In one embodiment the original electronic document includes a social media post comprising electronic text audio files video files graphical entities and or digital pictures. For example the original electronic document includes a FACEBOOK post a LINKEDIN post a TWITTER Tweet a YOUTUBE video and or a SKYPE session etc. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and more fewer or other types of social media information may be used to practice the invention.

At Step the first application automatically applies a first set of electronic document registration rules to the original electronic document . The first set of electronic document registration rules include document registration rules applied to all electronic document being registered via an automatic document registration system thereby creating a first level modified electronic document.

At Step the first application automatically applies a second set of electronic document registration rules to the first level modified electronic document thereby creating a second level modified electronic document. The second set of electronic document registration rules include local document registration rules applied only via the first application on the target network device .

At Step first application automatically transforms the second level modified electronic document into a secure cloud electronic document storage format using a pre determined set of electronic document transformation rules thereby creating a secure cloud transformed electronic document .

In at Step the first application automatically generated plural electronic document registration codes for the secure cloud transformed electronic document wherein the plural electronic document registration codes include an unalterable date and time stamp an identification code and one or more encryption codes.

At Step the first application securely transfers the secure cloud transformed electronic document from the target network device via a cloud communications network to a cloud server network device with one or more processors one or more different databases and a second application executing in a second non transitory computer readable medium on the cloud server network device .

At Step the secure cloud transformed electronic document is stored from the second application on the cloud server network device as a cloud storage object .

At Step the second application allows viewing of secure cloud transformed electronic document via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on the cloud communications network or on the social media network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document thereby providing an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network and the social media network .

Method helps solve the problems associated with saving and retrieving and preventing tampering of postings from social media networks.

Method is illustrated with one exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this embodiment and other embodiments can also be used to practice the invention.

At Step a second original electronic document is received on the first application that was previously stored in the non transitory computer readable medium on the target network device e.g. etc. The second original electronic document was previously stored in the non transitory computer readable medium and or downloaded and or re downloaded from another server network device on a telecommunications network e.g. AT T Unified Messaging allows a voice mail text message etc. for a landline mobile smart phone etc. to be re downloaded from a web site etc. First application interfaces with such services and other telecom services etc. .

In one embodiment the second original electronic document previously stored in the non transitory computer readable medium on the target network device includes an e mail message text message or an instant message the audio file includes a voice mail message the video files includes a video file and or a video message. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and more fewer and other types of second original documents can be used to practice the invention.

At Step a second secure cloud transformed electronic document is created with the first application with the second original electronic document using the methods and systems from described herein above. However the present invention is not limited to such an embodiment and other methods and systems can be used at Step to practice the invention.

Method is used to save and retrieve voice mails text messages and other electronic information from a mobile smart phone or electronic tablet connected to a telecommunications network and from the telecommunications network itself. This method solves the problem where a person whose loved one had died e.g. in the 911 attach in NY in an accident from a disease etc. had left the person a voice mail message and or text message etc. That person would replay the voice mail message to keep a memory alive with the deceased loved one. There have been many instances in which such voice mails texts etc. were accidently or intentionally deleted by the telecommunications network .

The methods and systems described herein provide a secure cloud transformed electronic document created on an application on a target network device from an original electronic document. The original electronic document is electronic text audio video or pictures from a social media network or from a telecommunications network. The secure cloud transformed electronic document is made viewable via the target network device and other target devices from anywhere on a cloud communications network or on a social media network without the ability to tamper with the information within the secure cloud transformed electronic document. This provides an automatic secure electronic document registration system on the cloud communications network and the social media network.

The invention described herein was described for use on a cloud computing network. However the present invention is not limited to a cloud computing network and can be used over a non cloud communications network e.g. the Internet an intranet a LAN the PSTN etc. and or other types of wired and wireless non cloud communication networks.

It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the architecture programs processes methods and systems described herein. Various other types of general purpose or specialized computer systems may be used to perform operations in accordance with the teachings of the invention described herein.

In view of the wide variety of embodiments to which the principles of the present invention can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are exemplary only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. For example the steps of the flow diagrams may be taken in sequences other than those described and more or fewer elements may be used in the block diagrams.

While various elements of the preferred embodiments have been described as being implemented in software in other embodiments hardware or firmware implementations may alternatively be used and vice versa.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

