---

title: Information targeting systems and methods
abstract: The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for the secure management of electronic information relating to a user. In certain embodiments, systems and methods disclosed herein may allow for personal information related to a user to be used in connection with information targeting systems and methods configured to match and/or target information for delivery to a user based on the user's interests. In some embodiments, personal information relating to a user may be stored and/or managed in a personal ontology graph or other data structure including, among other things, various inferred interests of the user derived from available personal information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355157&OS=09355157&RS=09355157
owner: Intertrust Technologies Corporation
number: 09355157
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 674 249 filed Jul. 20 2012 and entitled INFORMATION TARGETING SYSTEMS AND METHODS to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 675 261 filed Jul. 24 2012 and entitled INFORMATION TARGETING SYSTEMS AND METHODS to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 731 633 filed Nov. 30 2012 and entitled INFORMATION TARGETING SYSTEMS AND METHODS and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 751 143 filed Jan. 10 2013 and entitled INFORMATION TARGETING SYSTEMS AND METHODS all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Portions of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

As the use of the Internet is increasingly intrinsic to people s daily activities more personal electronic devices are interconnected. Such devices include for example phones tablets personal computers cameras e book readers TVs gaming devices automobiles and even home appliances e.g. thermostats refrigerators bathroom scales etc. . Personal electronic devices often include a variety of sensors that may provide information regarding device location motion and or other activities.

While connected devices offer many benefits personal information collected by such devices and or their constituent sensors may introduce certain privacy concerns. For example access to and or distribution of personal information related to a user by unauthorized parties may be damaging to the user. Accordingly a user may wish to have a certain amount of control over the collection use management and or distribution of their personal information.

Systems and methods disclosed herein can facilitate secure collection use management and or distribution of personal information relating to a user. In some embodiments personal information relating to a user may be included in a personal ontology graph or other data structure. The personal ontology graph may include without limitation information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device and or various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user. In certain embodiments the personal ontology graph may be maintained on a user s device. In further embodiments the personal ontology graph may alternatively or in additions be maintained by a trusted service. The privacy of information included in the personal ontology graph may be maintained in a variety of ways including for example using a personal agent operating locally on the user s device and or on a trusted remote service.

In further embodiments systems and methods disclosed herein may facilitate efficient targeting of information e.g. advertisements coupons offers content of interest etc. to a user based at least in part on personal information related to the user. Such personal information may be used to ensure information is delivered to a user that is well matched to the user s interests. For example personal information provided by a user and or generated based on a user s activities may be utilized to effectively match advertisements to the interests of the user. In certain embodiments such personal information may be included in a personal ontology graph maintained for example by a personal agent and or other trusted service. Utilizing personal information included in the personal ontology graph may allow the device a content provider or distributor and or a trusted third party to target advertisements to the user matched to the users interests reflected in the associated personal ontology graph.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the inventive body of work is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that the disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

The embodiments of the disclosure may be understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts may be designated by like numerals. The components of the disclosed embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of the systems and methods of the disclosure is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of possible embodiments of the disclosure. In addition the steps of any method disclosed herein do not necessarily need to be executed in any specific order or even sequentially nor need the steps be executed only once unless otherwise specified.

In the physical world society has developed a variety of protective structures for the preservation of privacy. Certain protective structures implemented in the physical world however may not necessarily be present when privacy is considered in connection with electronic information. Systems and methods disclosed herein provide effective protective structures for personal information allowing users to maintain their privacy while simultaneously taking advantage of advances that new connected technologies offer.

As users interact with the Internet and other connected services it may be helpful to personalize the information that is presented to a user so that unwanted clutter is filtered out. It is further desirable to have information presented in context at the right time in the right place and in a manner that intelligently anticipates a user s needs. Utilizing personal information to present information that is useful to a user at the right time and or location may be achieved when accurate timely and or intimate personal information related to a user is available and when a user can control how where when and by whom such personal information is collected and or used. Many users however do not have direct control over such data collection. For example a user may not readily know what organizations are collecting personal information as the user interacts with devices applications and or services and or how such information is collected packaged archived reproduced and or distributed.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein allow for users to extract value from their personal information without needing to share such information with untrusted and or unknown organizations and or services. For example in some embodiments value may be extracted from user s personal information without users needing to reveal personal information directly to retailers content providers and or other service providers allowing such entities to provide users with timely relevant and or personalized information regarding their products and or services without compromising user privacy. In further embodiments a system is disclosed allowing for personal recommendations merchandising and or targeted advertising while maintaining a user s privacy security and or control of his or her personal information.

In some embodiments personal information may be managed in a personal ontology graph or other data structure that includes without limitation information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information and or various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user. The systems and methods described herein can for example be used in connection with information e.g. advertisement matching and or targeting technologies such as those described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 785 406 Content Delivery Systems and Methods filed May 21 2010 and published as U.S. Pub. No. 2010 0293049 A1 the 406 application and or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 914 538 Data Collection and Analysis Systems and Methods file Jun. 10 2013 the 538 application each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

To efficiently target advertisements to a particular user a platform may obtain information regarding the user. In some circumstances this may create a conflict between users and an advertisement service provider as a user may not wish to reveal much private information whereas the service provider will typically want to collect as much information as possible. Embodiments of the systems and methods described in the 406 application may help to resolve such conflict by maintaining a user s information locally on an electronic device and or in remote storage protected by a user s personal agent while simultaneously making such information available for an information matching engine running locally on the user s device and or remotely on a secure system. As a result such a platform may protect a user s private information even while this information is used to target advertisements or other information to a user.

In further embodiments the systems and methods described herein can for example be used in connection with digital rights management DRM technologies such as those described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 583 693 filed Oct. 18 2006 the 693 application DRM and service orchestration technologies described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 863 551 filed Jun. 7 2004 the 551 application peer to peer P2P content sharing technologies such as those described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 784 290 filed May 20 2010 the 290 application and or the advertisement targeting technologies described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 433 881 filed Apr. 30 2009 the 881 application the contents of the 693 application the 551 application the 290 application and the 881 application hereby being incorporated by reference in their entireties as well as in other contexts. It will be appreciated that these systems and methods are novel as are many of the components systems and methods employed therein.

Personal information may be obtained related to a user as the user interacts with devices and services. For example demographic information about the user e.g. age gender etc. usage history and preferences of the user information about the user s device content preference information e.g. preferred genres artists etc. information about the user or the user s environment e.g. time of day global positioning system GPS coordinates etc. and or any other available information relating to a user and or an associated device may be obtained. In some circumstances this personal information may be volunteered directly by a user. For example in registering a device a user may voluntarily provide personal demographic information to a device manufacturer and or service provider. Personal information related to a user may also be obtained by monitoring the user s use of devices and or services.

As discussed above personal information provided by a user and or generated based on a user s activities may among other things be utilized to effectively match ads or other content to the interests of the user. This may be achieved utilizing for example the information matching technologies described in the 406 application. In certain embodiments matching may be performed locally on a user s device. Alternatively matching may be performed by a trusted third party. Further in circumstances where a user utilizes multiple devices and or services to consume content personal information may be managed shared and or aggregated between the devices and or services to generate a more detailed and accurate profile of the user s interests. By improving the ability to generate a more detailed profile of a user s interests managing personal information related to the user between multiple devices can improve information matching services.

In the context of managing sharing and aggregating personal information between multiple devices and or services the confidentiality of certain private personal information related to the users should be maintained. In some circumstances maintaining confidentiality of personal information may be mandated by local laws privacy regulations and or by user preference. Accordingly systems and methods may be deployed that allow for managing the confidentiality of user personal information. In some embodiments this may be achieved by ensuring that certain personal information is not communicated outside of a user s device devices or a trusted boundary associated with the user. Additionally anonymous versions of personal information may be generated that can be managed shared and aggregated between multiple devices and or services without compromising user privacy. Further users may specifically restrict access to certain categories and or types of personal information while allowing the sharing and aggregating of other types of personal information through one or more policies. Employing such techniques may allow for improved content matching services while maintaining the confidentiality of certain user personal information.

In some embodiments client software on a user s device may track a user s local usage behavior and save raw data related to such local usage. In some embodiments such raw data can be protected locally aggregated periodically to update a user profile and or aggregated across different devices associated with the consumer to update a user profile. The updated user profile may be used locally and or remotely for purposes of advertisement targeting and or for purposes of transmission to the user of virtually any other type of content or information e.g. coupons offers rights to content tickets entertainment content etc. . In certain embodiments the user profile may be utilized in an anonymous or protected form.

Some users may have reservations about technology that records their behavior and reports it to third party organizations. For example a user may be concerned that their preferences and or content consumption behavior will be used against them in some way e.g. they may be discriminated against based on their cultural preferences political preferences etc. and or that it might cause embarrassment if it became publically known or distributed to certain parties e.g. employers family members etc. .

Embodiments of the systems and methods described herein can be used to address these concerns in a number of ways including for example by providing users with an opportunity to opt in and or opt out of data collection services and or limiting the transmission of collected data to trusted services e.g. locally and or in the cloud . For example in some embodiments personally identifiable information PII that is collected may not be permitted to be transmitted from a device. Rather profile information that may lack specific enough information to personally identify a particular user e.g. lacking certain identification information may be shared with a remote device or service. In some embodiments users may be shown information that may be transmitted from their electronic device before it is transmitted.

To effectively target advertisements to a user systems and methods disclosed herein may utilize at least in part personal information to create a realistic behavior model of a user. In certain embodiments such a behavior model may be utilized to predict user buying decisions. Utilizing information provided by sensors included in a mobile device associated with a user e.g. location based sensors providing latitude and longitude information point of interest databases e.g. Google places and or the like and or other mechanisms for gathering personal and inferred information relating to the user the behavior model may be improved and or refined over time.

Consistent with embodiments disclosed herein personal information relating to a user may be included in a personal ontology graph or other data structure. A user s interests and or behavior may be modeled based at least in part on information included in the personal ontology graph. In certain embodiments the personal ontology graph may provide a map of a user s demographics and interests allowing advertisers and or other service providers to provide a more personalized experience for users. The personal ontology graph may for example include some or all of information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device and or various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user. In certain embodiments the personal ontology graph may be maintained on a user s device. In further embodiments the personal ontology graph may be maintained by a trusted service. Privacy of information included in the personal ontology graph may be achieved in a variety of ways including for example using a personal agent operating locally on the user s device and or on a trusted remote service.

In some embodiments the personal ontology graph may comprise a plurality of layered ontology graphs. In some embodiments the personal ontology graph may utilize a framework incorporating a user model user interest and a user related entity graph. The user model may comprise information regarding the identity of the user based on demographic psychographic behavioral and or geographic terms. User interests may include information regarding one or more concepts of interest to a user such as for example tastes hobbies occupation and or recreational activities. A user related entity graph may include structured data and or information in the form of ontologies about the user.

The personal ontology graph may include a plurality of interconnected nodes and edges. A user may be a primary object of interest represented in the personal ontology graph. Information about the user may be contextualized in a variety of other types of interconnected nodes and edges. Information included in the personal ontology graph may be represented in terms of nodes e.g. people entity and or concept nodes connected by edges to other nodes with one or more attributes e.g. times scores weights etc. attached to any node or edge. For example the personal ontology graph may comprise one or more interest nodes such as food taste preferences associated products and or services visits to one or more places and or locations and or one or more friends or other social connections. Examples of the generation and structure of a personal ontology graph consistent with embodiments disclosed herein are described in more detail below in reference to .

The trusted service user device and or service provider may be communicatively coupled using a variety of networks and or network connections. In certain embodiments the network may comprise a variety of network communication devices and or channels and may utilize any suitable communications protocols and or standards facilitating communication between the user device the trusted service and or the service provider . For example the network may comprise the Internet a local area network a virtual private network a cellular communications network and or any other communication network utilizing one or more electronic communication technologies and or standards e.g. Ethernet or the like . In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless carrier system such as a personal communications system PCS and or any other suitable communication system incorporating any suitable communication technologies standards and or protocols. In further embodiments the network may comprise an analog mobile communications network and or a digital mobile communications network utilizing for example code division multiple access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications or Groupe Special Mobile GSM frequency division multiple access FDMA and or time divisional multiple access TDMA technologies. In certain embodiments the network may incorporate one or more satellite communication links. In yet further embodiments the network may utilize IEEE s 802.11 standards Bluetooth ultra wide band UWB Zigbee and or any other suitable technology or technologies.

The user device the trusted service and or the service provider may comprise a variety of computing devices and or systems including any computing system or systems suitable to implement the systems and methods disclosed herein. The connected systems may comprise a variety of computing devices and systems including laptop computer systems desktop computer systems sever computer systems distributed computer systems smartphones tablet computers gaming devices electronic book readers and or the like.

In certain embodiments the user device the trusted service and or the service provider may comprise at least one processor system configured to execute instructions stored on an associated non transitory computer readable storage medium. As discussed in more detail below the user device the trusted service and or the service provider may further comprise a secure processing unit SPU configured to perform sensitive operations such as trusted credential and or key management secure policy management and or other aspects of the systems and methods disclosed herein. The user device the trusted service and or the service provider may further comprise software and or hardware configured to enable electronic communication of information between the devices and or systems via a network using any suitable communication technology and or standard.

As the user interacts with the user device e.g. consumes content and or interacts with applications and or services the user device may obtain personal information relating to the user. In certain embodiments this personal information may reflect in part the interests of the user. Personal information may include among other things information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests and or information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information . For example a user may provide a device with personal identification information e.g. age gender home address and the like and or other preference information e.g. content preference information including preferred genres artists and the like . Similarly a device may passively collect usage information regarding the types of content a user consumes the number of times certain content is consumed application usage information location based information relating to a location of the user and or the like. Collectively personal information may include without limitation user attributes such as gender age content preferences geographic location attributes and information associated with a user s friends contacts and groups included in a user s social network and or information related to content and or application usage patterns including what content is consumed content recommendations advertisement viewing patterns and or the like.

Certain personal information may be volunteered e.g. provided directly by a user. For example in registering or configuring device a user may voluntarily provide personal demographic information to the device a device manufacturer and or a service provider. In certain embodiments this information may include a user s age gender contact information address field of employment and or the like. User volunteered personal information may also include content preference information e.g. preferred genres preferred artists etc. . In some embodiments in lieu of or in addition to collecting personal information as part of a device registration or configuration process user volunteered personal information may be provided by a user when registering with a service or at various times during a user s interaction with a device e.g. concurrent with selection of a particular piece of content or using a particular application .

In further embodiments personal information may comprise one or more certified attributes acquired from one or more trusted sources that can authenticate certain attributes relating to the user and or the user device e.g. attributes relating to age gender education club membership employer frequent flyer or frequent buyer status credit rating etc. . User device may also generate and or collect other attributes from various user events as personal information including for example metrics or attributes derivable from a user s history of interactivity with ads purchasing history browsing history content rendering history application usage history and or the like. Further a variety of environmental attributes may also be included in personal information such as time of day geographic location speed of travel and or the like.

Personal information may further include information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information and or usage data . Usage data may include information regarding the types of content a user consumes the number of times certain content is consumed metrics or attributes derivable from a user s history of interactivity with ads and or content information regarding application usage application usage history purchasing history browsing history content rendering history and or the like. In certain embodiments usage data may be generated locally on a user s device through monitoring of a user s interaction with the device . Alternatively or in addition usage data may be generated by a trusted third party capable of monitoring a user s interaction with a device . In some embodiments usage data may be stored locally on a user s device in a secure manner to protect the integrity of the data and or usage data may be filtered suitably to ensure that it is anonymized in some way before it is transmitted from the device .

Consistent with embodiments disclosed herein personal information may also include various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to a user of device . For example personal information may include information inferred from information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests and or information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information . For example if a user volunteers that they have an interest in winter sports it may be inferred that they have an interest in sports in general. Similarly if a user regularly visits a gym e.g. based on collected location information it may be inferred that the user has an interest in fitness. As discussed in more detail below in certain embodiments such inferences may be made by an inference engine executing on the user device and or the trusted service . It will be appreciated that a variety of inferences may be drawn based on a wide variety of available personal information and that any suitable method algorithm and or architecture for drawing such inferences may be utilized in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the user device may include a variety of sensor systems configured to provide information that may be utilized as personal information . For example the user device may include without limitation one or more accelerometers GPS sensors acoustic sensors infra red sensors imaging sensors gyroscopes proximity sensors light sensors magnetometers cameras wireless communication systems and or any other suitable system and or sensors for detecting and or measuring information associated with the user device its surroundings and or a user of the device . Certain sensors of user device may be location based sensors configured to generate personal information relating to a location of the user device and or an associated user. Further sensors may be activity based and or other environmental sensors configured to provide information relating to usage of the user device and or an environment proximate to the device . In certain embodiments the one or more sensors of the device may measure contextual information that may be used to determine and or infer certain personal information relating to the user e.g. interests regularly visited points of interest etc. . For example if an accelerometer of device indicates that the device does not move on average between 11 00 PM and 6 00 AM every day it may be inferred that the user typically sleeps between these hours.

As illustrated the user device may transmit personal information relating to the user of the device to a trusted service . The trusted service may provide certain functions associated with a content targeting platform such as that described in the 406 application. In some embodiments based on received personal information the trusted service may generate and or manage a personal ontology graph associated with a user of user device . A user s interests and or behavior may be modeled based at least in part on information included in the personal ontology graph . The personal ontology graph may provide a map of a user s demographics and interests allowing service providers e.g. advertisement service provider to provide a more personalized experience for users. The personal ontology graph may include without limitation information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device and or various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user. Privacy of information included in the personal ontology graph may be achieved in a variety of ways including for example using a personal agent operating locally on the user s device and or on the trusted service .

Consistent with embodiments disclosed herein the trusted service may operate in conjunction with the user device and the service provider to provide certain content targeting services. In certain embodiments the trusted service may function as a trusted intermediary between the user device and the service provider . For example as illustrated the trusted service may receive advertisements and campaign information e.g. information defining parameters of an advertising campaign from the service provider . Based on information included in the personal ontology graph and the received campaign information the trusted service may match advertisements to a user s interests and transmit matched advertisements to the user device for rendering e.g. rendering in connection with certain content and or the like .

Privacy and or confidentiality of user personal information and or personal ontology graph may be maintained by the trusted service without exposing such information to the service provider . By utilizing the trusted service as a trusted intermediary value may be extracted from user s personal information without users needing to reveal personal information directly to the service provider allowing the service provider to provide users with timely relevant and or personalized information regarding products and or services while maintaining a secure privacy boundary between the user device and the service provider .

It will be appreciated that a number of variations can be made to the architecture and relationships presented in connection with within the scope of the inventive body of work. For example without limitation in some embodiments some or all of the functions performed by the user device may be performed by the trusted service . Similarly some or all of the functions performed by the trusted service may be performed by the user device . Moreover although illustrated in in the context of advertisement targeting further embodiments may be utilized in connection with other information and or content targeting operations including content targeting operations that do not necessarily involve targeting and or matching of advertisements to a user s interests e.g. targeting by an entertainment content provider and or the like .

Increasing the amount of user personal information that can be utilized for ad matching and or other information targeting services may increase the overall effectiveness of such services. Therefore a trusted service may communicate with a plurality of devices associated with a user and receive personal information related to a user from the plurality devices . Based on the personal information provided by one or more devices a personal ontology graph associated with the user may be generated by the trusted service e.g. generated by a personal agent operating on the trusted service and or the like .

The personal ontology graph may provide a behavior model of a user associated with devices . In certain embodiments the behavior model reflected in the information contained in the personal ontology graph may among other things be utilized to model user interests for use in advertisement and or other information targeting methods to predict user buying decisions and other behaviors and or the like. In certain embodiments to protect a user s privacy the personal ontology graph may be encrypted and or otherwise protected by trusted service using any suitable secure encryption technique or techniques. In further embodiments the personal ontology graph may be improved and or refined over time based on updated personal information provided by the plurality of devices .

The personal ontology graph may include without limitation information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device and or various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user. In certain embodiments an inference engine operating on the trusted service may be configured to generate inferred information included in the personal ontology graph based on received personal information . For example the inference engine may generate and include in the personal ontology graph among other things a variety of user inferred interests characteristics preferences behavioral habits e.g. schedules travel patterns etc. and or the like based on received personal information . In generating inferences inference engine may employ a variety of suitable techniques.

In some embodiments the inference engine may utilize contextual information included in personal information to generate associated inferred information included in the personal ontology graph . For example personal information may include information relating to a user s location. If the location information indicates that a user is at a particular location regularly during certain late evening early morning hours inference engine may determine e.g. based on one or more inference rules that the location is associated with a user s residence. In this manner contextual information that may not directly provide useful behavioral information about a user e.g. interests preferences schedules etc. may be utilized by the inference engine to generate useful behavioral information about a user that may be utilized in information targeting and or other services.

In some embodiments the inference engine may utilize one or more inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies that in some instances may be maintained by trusted service to generate inferences included in personal ontology graph . In further embodiments the inference engine may utilize one or more inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies e.g. external ontologies maintained by one or more other services to generate inferred information. In some embodiments such ontologies or taxonomies may comprise a set of concepts and or one or more relationships between those concepts. Ontologies taxonomies utilized by the inference engine may have a shared vocabulary and or data model and may include the definitions of included entities and or concepts and associated relationships. In certain embodiments the inference engine may utilize for example information included in various knowledge based resources and or ontologies such as Freebase Wikipedia DBPedia and or BabelNet to generate inferences reflected in the personal ontology graph based on personal information received from user devices . Inferences included in the personal ontology graph generated by inference engine may change and or be updated with changes to associated inference rules databases knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies and or received personal information allowing the personal ontology graph to be continuously updated enriched and or improved over time to more accurately model a user s behavior interests and or preferences.

In some embodiments the personal ontology graph may comprise a plurality of nodes connected by one or more edges that in certain embodiments may be directed edges. In one embodiment nodes may comprise without limitation person nodes entity nodes and or concept nodes. In other embodiments other node types may be used instead or in addition. In one embodiment person nodes may include for example nodes representing a user and other persons associated with the user . For example a user node may be connected with one or more nodes associated with the user s friends colleagues family and or the like. In further embodiments person nodes may include nodes representing celebrities politicians public figures historical figures and or other individuals having some association with the user. In some embodiments person nodes associated with a user may be derived from personal information relating to a user s social connections e.g. contact lists associated with one or more device applications and or the like . In further embodiments a trusted service may interface with one or more social network services associated with the user to access personal information used to generate person nodes representing individuals the user is associated with.

In one embodiment entity nodes may include for example nodes representing one or more entities locations organizations businesses places things and or the like associated with the user. For example an entity node may include a node associated with a location a user has visited e.g. as determined by location information included in personal information used to generate personal ontology graph an organization a user is a member of a thing the user owns and or regularly uses e.g. a sports car a service provider etc. and or the like. In some embodiments an entity node may represent a specific entity e.g. a particular restaurant while in other embodiments an entity may represent a general entity e.g. restaurants in general .

In one embodiment concept nodes may include for example nodes representing one or more concepts things and or ideas associated with a user. For example a concept node may include a node associated with a generalized activity e.g. sports a node associated with an idea or field of interest e.g. democracy macro economics interior design sustainable development etc. a node associated with a particular taste or other preference e.g. sweet salty etc. and or any other suitable concept thing and or idea that may be embodied as a node included in the personal ontology graph . In certain embodiments concept nodes connected to a user node may provide a generalized abstraction of a user s interests. It will be appreciated that a variety of other nodes and or types of nodes may be included in a personal ontology graph and that any suitable node may be utilized in connection with embodiments of the personal ontology graph disclosed herein.

Edges included in the personal ontology graph may define a relationship between two interconnected nodes. A variety of edges and or edge types may be utilized. For example edges may be associated with particular interests e.g. likes dislikes etc. behaviors and or activities e.g. visits frequently visits occasionally travels by watched attended demographic attributes e.g. is a lives in etc. and or any other possible relationship between two interconnected nodes. In certain embodiments edge types may be limited to one or more defined relationships. In further embodiments new edge types and associated relationships may be generated over time.

In some embodiments edge types may change as a personal ontology graph is improved and or refined over time. For example edges may change based on activity location and or context. As a user s preferences pertaining to a particular node may change over time so may an associated edge. For example if a user likes a particular restaurant the personal ontology graph may include an entity node associated with the restaurant connected to the user node by an edge indicating that the user likes the restaurant. If however the user later grows to dislike the restaurant the edge connecting the entity node associated with the restaurant to the user node may change to reflect to user s changed taste. In this manner the personal ontology graph may reflect a user s interests and or preferences at a particular period of time.

Referring to the exemplary personal ontology graph illustrated in the particular user may be identified based on demographic information regarding the user included in available personal information as a man who lives in San Francisco. Accordingly the personal ontology graph may include a node indicating the user is a man connected to the user node by an edge defining this relationship e.g. is a . Similarly the user node may be connected to a location node associated with San Francisco by an edge defining that the user resides there e.g. lives in .

The user may visit one or more restaurants. For example the user may visit restaurants named Dishdash and Mazza e.g. as indicated by location based personal information indicating the user visited these locations . Accordingly the personal ontology graph may include nodes associated with these restaurants connected to the user node by edges indicating the user s visits. In certain embodiments an inference engine may interface with one or more directories and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies and generate further nodes associated with the restaurant nodes. For example based on information contained in a business directory or other database resource an inference engine may generate nodes connected by an appropriate edge e.g. is a with the Dishdash and Mazza nodes indicating the entities are restaurants. Similarly an inference engine may utilize information included in a resource indicating that the restaurants serve Mediterranean food and generate concept nodes associated with Mediterranean food connected to the Dishdash and Mazza nodes by appropriate edges e.g. serves .

The user may watch a particular movie on a streaming moving service. Accordingly the personal ontology graph may include an entity node associated with the movie connected to the user node by an appropriate edge e.g. watched on movie service or the like .

Based on information included in the personal ontology graph an inference engine may generate additional connected nodes edges based on one or more applicable inferences. For example based on the user watching a movie on the streaming movie service the inference engine may generate a node associated with the movie streaming service connected to the user node by an edge indicating the user likes the service. The inference engine may also infer based on the user watching the movie that the user likes movies in general and may further generate a node associated with movies connected to the user node by an edge indicating the user likes movies. Similarly based on the user visiting the restaurants Dishdash and Mazza the inference engine may infer that the user likes Mediterranean food and generate a connected node and edge reflecting the same.

In certain embodiments edges may be associated with one or more attributes providing further information regarding an associated relationship between two or more nodes. For example an attribute associated with an edge reflecting a particular activity e.g. visited watched etc. may include a time at which the activity took place. Attributes may further include scores and or weights reflecting a strength of an association between nodes e.g. a strength of inferred relationships .

Scores and or weights may depend on a variety of factors including for example recency frequency and confidence in reliability of data source. For example in the example illustrated in an edge connecting the user node with a node associated with Mediterranean food may have a relatively high score based on the user frequenting multiple Mediterranean restaurants e.g. Dishdash and Mazza within a recent time frame. An edge connecting the user node with an entity node for a streaming movie service may have a lower score based on the user viewing a single movie on the service. In certain embodiments attributes e.g. scores and or weights may be updated and or changed over time. For example in some embodiments certain attributes e.g. scores and or weights may decay over time. In this manner attributes associated with edges may further be utilized to ensure the personal ontology graph reflects a user s current interests and or behaviors. Certain types of data used to generate inferences e.g. user volunteered information may also be viewed as more reliable and accordingly the type of information used to derive an inference may also affect a score and or weight of an association and or inference.

It will be appreciated that a number of variations can be made to the architecture and relationships presented in connection with the exemplary personal ontology graph illustrated in within the scope of the inventive body of work. For example a variety of other suitable types of nodes and or edges may be utilized in connection with embodiments disclosed herein. Moreover although described above in the context of a graphical ontology further embodiments may utilize any suitable data structure reflecting personal information and inferred relationships derived therefrom. Thus it will be appreciated that is provided for purposes of illustration and explanation and not limitation.

A subject may comprise any suitable type of node. For example a subject may include a person node an entity node a concept node a location node a title node and or any other type of node. The subject may be connected to the object by the predicate . In certain embodiments the predicate may comprise a type of edge e.g. a directed edge connecting two associated nodes. The predicate may define a relationship between two nodes by any suitable term or terms. For example the predicate may define one or more demographic relationships e.g. is a lives in etc. one or more actions e.g. read watched etc. one or more relationships e.g. is a friend of is a member of is an employee at etc. interests e.g. likes dislikes etc. and or any other type of articulated relationship between two nodes. The object may include any suitable type of node including for example a person node an entity node a concept node a location node a title node e.g. a node associated with a gender location entity person content interests hobbies etc. .

A user interest graph may further be used to generate a personal ontology graph . In certain embodiments the interest graph may generally answer the question What does the user like The interest graph may include one or more interests declared by a user e.g. as reflected in volunteered personal information . For example in some embodiments a trusted service may communicate with one or more social network service providers e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. and receive information relating to a user s interests that may be included in an associated interest graph . In certain embodiments the information included in the personal ontology graph may be extensible. That is users may not only declare interests associated with a pre defined set of interest nodes but may also define their own customized nodes.

In further embodiments the interest graph may include information inferred based on available personal information relating to the user. In some embodiments the interest graph may include one or more interests inferred from user activity information included in available personal information relating to the user. For example if an application browsing history indicates that the user searched for the term Mustang GT it may be inferred that the user is also interested in cars car racing Ford Motor Company Henry Ford and or any other related concepts. A variety of other inferred interests may also be included in the interest graph .

An entity graph may further be used to generate a personal ontology graph . The entity graph may define one or more relationships between entities and or concepts. For example if a user interest graph indicates a user has an interest in winter sports an associated entity graph may include an association between winter sports and sports in general. In certain embodiments the entity graph may be generated based on inferences made by an inference engine utilizing information included in one or more databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies.

The personal ontology graph may further include an interest graph . The interest graph may include one or more connected interest nodes associated with the user node e.g. person to interest links . For example as illustrated the user may have an interest in ice skating alpine skiing and or winter sports as indicated by available personal information relating to the user. In certain embodiments such information may be declared and or volunteered by a user. In further embodiments such information may be inferred e.g. using an inference engine based on available personal information relating to the user e.g. television viewing history browsing history etc. .

The personal ontology graph may further include an entity graph . The entity graph may include one or more interconnected entities interests and or concept nodes e.g. interest to interest links . In certain embodiments the entity graph may be used to generate one or more higher level inferences relating to a user node . For example if a user has a declared interest in winter sports based on information included in an interest graph associated with the personal ontology graph it may be inferred that the user will also have an interest in winter Olympic sports such as snowboarding. In certain embodiments the entity graph may be generated based on inferences made by an inference engine utilizing information included in one or more databases and or other knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies and or resources e.g. Freebase Wikipedia DBPedia BabelNet etc. .

By utilizing a plurality of layered and or otherwise associated ontologies the personal ontology graph may provide a more rich robust and realistic model of an associated user s interests and or behavior. This refined model of user interest and or behavior may allow for more effective advertisement and or other information targeting operations.

The user device may collect among other things a variety of personal information. This personal information may include without limitation sensor information application data usage and or activity data and or location information . Sensor information may include any information measured and or collected by one or more sensors included in and or associated with the user device . For example the sensor information may comprise information relating to an orientation of the device an amount of light proximate to the device and or any other information relating to a dynamic environment proximate to the device .

Personal information generated by the user device may further include application data . Application data may comprise information regarding one or more applications installed and or running on the user device . In some embodiments application data may be obtained by mapping one or more process identifiers associated with applications executing on the device with a database associating known process identifiers with particular applications. Application data may further comprise statistical data regarding application usage including without limitation frequency of application usage duration of application use and or the like.

Usage and or activity data may further be generated by the user device . In certain embodiments usage and or activity data may include among other things information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with the user device and or one or more services. For example usage and or activity data may include without limitation a user s history of interactivity with ads and or content purchasing history browsing history content rendering history and or the like.

The user device may further generate location information . Location information may include information regarding a location of the user device e.g. as indicated by one or more location based sensors including GPS sensors or the like . For example location information may include one or more coordinates indicating a location of the user device . In further embodiments the location information may include one or more points of interests and or named locations associated with the user device . Points of interest and or named location information may be obtained by the user device for example by comparing measured coordinate locations of the user device with one or more point of interest databases and or directories.

Sensor information application data usage and or activity data and or location information may be transmitted from the user device to the trusted service . Using the received information and data the trusted service may generate a personal ontology graph relating to a user of the user device . In certain embodiments an inference engine operating on the trusted service may be configured to generate inferred information included in the personal ontology graph based at least in part on the received information and data . For example the inference engine may generate and include in the personal ontology graph among other things a variety of user inferred interests characteristics preferences behavioral habits e.g. schedules travel patterns etc. and or the like based on the received information and data . In some embodiments the inference engine may utilize contextual information included in the received information and data to generate associated inferred information included in the personal ontology graph . In further embodiments the inference engine may utilize one or more inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies to generate inferences included in personal ontology graph .

The trusted service may further include a matching engine . In some embodiments the matching engine may be configured to perform certain functions associated with an information targeting platform such as that described in the 406 application. For example the matching engine may be configured to match content ads offers and or deals provided by a content service provider or other associated party to a user based on the interests and or behavior of the user as reflected in the personal ontology graph .

The service provider may manage and or track the progress of a content distribution campaign e.g. a targeted advertising campaign using a campaign manager . In certain embodiments the campaign manager may be a portal through which the service provider may access campaign information managed by the trusted service . In certain embodiments the campaign manager may allow the service provider to define parameters associated with a campaign including for example parameters relating to what content should be provided by matching engine to what type of a user. Utilizing the campaign manager the service provider may tailor its campaign so that delivered content is well matched to a user s interests.

In some embodiments the campaign manager may allow the service provider to define one or more inference rules utilized by inference engine in drawing interest and behavioral inferences from available information and data provided by user device . By allowing a service provider to provide rules generating customized inferences the campaign manager may provide the service provider with further control over the targeted delivery of content ads offers deals and or other information to a user of device .

The campaign manager may further allow the service provider to view and interact with performance metrics relating to a campaign. Performance metrics may include for example how well matched delivered information e.g. an advertisement is to a user s interests based on information reflected in the personal ontology graph statistical information relating to delivered content e.g. length number of ads delivered average user viewing time etc. and success rates of acceptance of ads and or materials. By viewing performance metrics associated with a campaign the service provider may better understand how successful a campaign is and how well targeted information is to a user and or group of users.

In further embodiments the campaign manager may allow the service provider to view anonymized and or otherwise filtered information e.g. demographic information relating to a user and or a group of users. In certain embodiments anonymizing the personal information may comprise removing and or filtering certain personally identifiable information from personal information reflected in the personal ontology graph so that the information may not be used to uniquely identify e.g. identify with a certain degree of specificity the user of device . In some embodiments anonymized personal information may include personal information associated with a user of the device that may be used in the information targeting and or content distribution methods disclosed herein but not include personally identifiable and or other information that may be used to uniquely identify the user. For example in certain embodiments anonymized personal information may include certain usage data relating to device but not include a user s name address and or any other personally identifiable information. Enabling a service provider to view anonymized and or otherwise filtered personal and or demographic information relating to a user and or a group of users may allow the service provider to ascertain the effectiveness of its campaign and more directly tailor the campaign to a target audience.

As illustrated the user device may provide the trusted service with personal information . Personal information may include among other things information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests and or information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information . Based on the personal information and using an inference engine the trusted service may generate a personal ontology graph associated with a user of the device . As illustrated in some embodiments some and or all of the information included in the personal ontology graph may be provided to the user device upon request e.g. via a personal agent application executing on the user device or the like . In some embodiments the user may have the ability to manage and or control the management distribution and or use of their personal information and or personal ontology graph through various interactions with the trusted service .

A content service may be communicatively coupled to the trusted service and be configured to provide the trusted service with a variety of advertisements and or other electronic content e.g. deals products advertisements offers etc. . In further embodiments the advertisement service may provide campaign information including e.g. one or more rules relating to a content distribution campaign e.g. advertisement matching rules and or the like for implementation by a matching engine executing on the trusted service . Based on information included in the personal ontology graph e.g. user interests and or behaviors the matching engine may match one or more content items e.g. advertisements to a user of device .

Matched and or targeted advertisements and or other electronic content e.g. targeted deals products advertisements offers etc. may be sent to a notification server which may be configured to communicate one or more messages e.g. e mail messages application notifications etc. conveying the targeted advertisement and or content to the device . In some embodiments aspects of advertisement targeting and or matching operations disclosed herein may be utilized in connection with an application executing on the user device provided by the advertisement service provider and or a related entity e.g. a retailer a content provider etc. . Upon receipt of message pertaining to a matched targeted advertisement or content a notification may for example be provided to a user of the device via a notification in application .

Personal information may be directly provided for use in a personal ontology graph by a user device after being transformed into an appropriate structure associated with other information included the personal ontology graph . The personal information may include information volunteered by a user and information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with the device . In some embodiments a user device may provide a personal agent executing on the device and or on a trusted service with certain personal information. The personal agent may transmit such maintained personal information to a trusted system managing the personal ontology graph for inclusion in the graph. In further embodiments the user system may provide personal information e.g. declared interests to a trusted system managing the personal ontology graph directly without the use of a personal agent .

As illustrated the user device may transmit certain personal information to an inference engine that in some embodiments may be associated with a trusted service. The personal information may for example include information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests and information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. various sensor application and usage information etc. . For example the personal information transmitted to the inference engine may include without limitation sensor information e.g. information measured and or collected by one or more sensors included in and or associated with the user device application data e.g. information regarding one or more applications installed and or running on the user device usage and or activity data e.g. information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with the user device and or one or more services location information e.g. information regarding a location of the user device and or the like. Based at least in part on the personal information the inference engine may generate one or more inferred interests that may be included in a personal ontology graph . In certain embodiments the personal ontology graph may be secured and or otherwise encrypted.

The inference engine may utilize a variety of information in generating inferred interests based on available personal information . For example in some embodiments the inference engine may interact with one or more databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies to generate inferences included in the personal ontology graph . As illustrated the inference engine may for example interact with a point of interest database in generating inferences based on available personal information . For example the inference engine may utilize a point of interest directory associated with point of interest database in conjunction with measured coordinate locations of the user device indicated by sensor information to identify a point of interest and or location of the device and or derive inferences therefrom.

In further embodiments the inference engine may receive one or more rules used to generate inferences to be included in personal ontology graph . For example as illustrated an advertisement or other information service provider may provide one more or rules to the inference engine used to derive inferences from available personal information . In one example a rule may articulate that if certain information is included in personal information provided to the inference engine the inference engine should make a particular inference. For example a rule may articulate that if a user has an application for watching streaming movies on their device e.g. as reflected by application data included in available personal information then it should be inferred that the user likes movies.

In some embodiments the personal ontology graph may be further populated based on inferred interests provided by a higher level inference engine . In certain embodiments the higher level inference engine may draw from a variety of resources in populating personal ontology graph with user behavioral and interest information e.g. inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies . For example in some embodiments the higher level inference engine may utilize information included in one or more entity graphs defining one or more relationships between entities and or concepts. In certain embodiments the entity graph may be populated for example by information included in one more metadata ontology dictionaries and or taxonomies and or points of interest databases . In some embodiments inferred interests generated by the higher level inference engine may be further based on one or more rules articulated for example by a service provider the user and or the like.

Based on information included in the personal ontology graph and received campaign information advertisements and or other content may be matched to a user s interests and transmitted to the user device for rendering e.g. rendering in connection with certain content and or the like . For example via a campaign manager and or an associated dashboard interface a service provider may interact with a recommendation and or matching system . The recommendation and or matching system may receive content advertisements offers and or the like from the service provider and based on information included in the personal ontology graph match such content advertisements offers etc. based on the interests of a user of the device as reflected in the personal ontology graph . In some embodiments targeted and or matched content advertisements offers etc. may be distributed to the device by the recommendation and or matching system and or another system e.g. service provider and or a service operating on its behalf .

In certain embodiments a service provider may view via the campaign manager and or a dashboard associated therewith anonymized and or otherwise filtered information e.g. demographic information relating to a user and or a group of users. Enabling a service provider to view anonymized and or otherwise filtered personal and or demographic information relating to a user and or a group of users may allow the service provider to ascertain the effectiveness of its campaign and more directly tailor the campaign to a target audience.

It will be appreciated that a number of variations can be made to the architecture and relationships presented in connection with within the scope of the inventive body of work. Although described above in context of advertisement targeting further embodiments may be utilized in connection with other information and or content targeting operations including content targeting operations that do not necessarily involve targeting and or matching advertisements to a user s interests. Thus it will be appreciated that is provided for purposes of illustration and explanation and not limitation.

At application data may be received. The application data may comprise information regarding one or more applications installed and or running on a user device. In certain embodiments the application data may comprise one or more process identifiers associated with applications executing on the device.

At one or more applications installed and or running on the device may be identified based on information included in the application data received at . For example in certain embodiments one or more process identifiers associated with the application data may be mapped to one or more applications based on information included in a database associating known process identifiers with particular applications.

Based on the applications identified at one or more interests associated with the user may be determined at . In certain embodiments one or more interests may be determined using an inference engine. In some embodiments the inference engine may utilize contextual information associated with the applications to infer certain interests of a user based on the applications. For example if a user device is running an application that facilitates viewing of streaming movies on the device the inference engine may infer that the user likes movies. In further embodiments the inference engine may utilize one or more inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies to identify interests based on the applications identified at .

At one or more scores and or weights may be assigned to interests identified at . In certain embodiments the scores and or weights may reflect the strength of an association between the user and the identified interests e.g. a strength of inferred relationships . For example if a user uses an application on a daily basis interests inferred based on use of the application may be given a relatively high score whereas interests inferred based on an application used infrequently may be given a relatively low score. In some embodiments scores and or weights associated with interests may decay over time. In further embodiments association of interests identified based on information provided and or volunteered by a user e.g. declared interest may be given a relatively higher score and or weight than those derived from other contextual information.

At interest information associated with interests determined at and scores determined at may be stored. For example consistent with embodiments disclosed herein interest information may be stored in a personal ontology graph or other data store associated with the user. Based on information included in the personal ontology graph advertisement and or other content targeting operations may be performed.

At location information may be received. The location information may include one or more coordinates indicating a location of an associated user device e.g. GPS coordinates . For example in some embodiments the location information may comprise a latitude and a longitude associated with a location of a user device.

At one or more points of interests may be identified based on the location information received at . In certain embodiments the coordinate information may be converted to a geo hash value. Based on the coordinate information and or the geo hash value one or more points of interest databases and or directories may be utilized to identify an associated point of interest e.g. the name of the location .

At one or more interests associated with the point of interest identified at may be determined. In certain embodiments the one or more interests may be identified using an inference engine. The inference engine may utilize contextual information associated with the point of interest to infer user interests based on the identified point of interest. For example in some embodiments an identified point of interest may have certain associated metadata relating to the point of interest e.g. metadata provided by a point of interest database and or directory . Metadata may provide for example a name of a point of interest a category of a point of interest e.g. restaurant office gym etc. activities associated with the point of interest and or any other information relating to the point of interest. Based on this metadata one or more user interests may be determined. In further embodiments the inference engine may utilize one or more inference rules databases and or knowledge based ontologies or taxonomies to identify interests based on identified points of interest.

At one or more scores and or weights may be assigned to interests identified at . In certain embodiments the scores and or weights may reflect a strength of an association between the user and or identified interests e.g. a strength of inferred relationships . For example if a user visits a point of interest on a daily basis interests inferred from the point of interest may be given a relatively high score whereas interests inferred based on points of interest visited infrequently may be given a relatively low score. In some embodiments scores and or weights associated with interests may decay over time.

At interest information associated with interests determined at and scores determined at may be stored. For example consistent with embodiments disclosed herein interest information may be stored in a personal ontology graph or other data store associated with the user. Based on information included in the personal ontology graph advertisement and other content targeting operations may be performed.

In some embodiments a personal agent such as that described in the 406 application may be used to manage personal information and or a personal ontology graph associated with a user. A user s privacy may be maintained because only the personal agent has direct access to personal information and or the personal ontology graph. Users may have control over what personal information is exposed from the personal agent to other entities e.g. advertisement service providers . In certain embodiments the personal agent may be used to mediate between advertisement providers and a user s personal information in a scalable manner.

A personal agent may be implemented in a variety of ways to collect store and or manage personal information. In some embodiments a personal agent may be implemented as an agent that runs locally on a device such as a background service configured to monitor events and collect information from a variety of sources including for example direct user input user contents user actions web browsing and or searches and or the like. In further embodiments a personal agent may be implemented as a network service that interacts with services e.g. social networks and or the like and collects information related to a user profile friends groups recommendations and or the like.

In some embodiments a personal agent may be a distributed software component that works for an individual user and is controlled by that user. The personal agent may be a distributed component because it may comprise software that runs on various devices e.g. a user device associated with a user as well as on secure servers e.g. trusted systems in the cloud that host personal agent capabilities. In certain embodiments a user may be associated with a plurality of personal agents. In one embodiment the architecture of a system allows the personal agent to be associated with a user s email address and or a pseudonym of a user s choice thereby providing separation from any external identity information.

In some embodiments the personal agent may collect information about a user but may not reveal it to anyone except the user and may work in conjunction with advertisement and content matching services utilizing personal information including a personal ontology graph. As discussed above the personal agent may perform matching operations rather than advertisers or other third party service providers. In this manner the personal agent may function as a trusted intermediary.

In one embodiment a personal agent serves as a trusted intermediary that is relied upon by two or more stakeholders to perform certain actions for the benefit of those stakeholders. The reliance generally includes certain provisions regarding those actions. For example in one embodiment a personal agent can have three classes of stakeholders 1 a user whose information the personal agent collects and classifies 2 advertisers merchandisers etc. who want to inform the user about their products and services and optionally 3 service and content providers who provide content that is ultimately paid for in whole or part by advertisers who advertise through a personal agent.

In the systems and methods disclosed herein a personal agent may generate a sophisticated and personal profile of a user s interests and other attributes that may be embodied in a personal ontology graph. In some embodiments the user may correct and curate the generated profile and or personal ontology graph. The personal agent may find advertisements merchandise content etc. having attributes are that are well matched to attributes and interests associated with a user personal agent e.g. as represented in the personal ontology graph . In some embodiments the personal agent may rank those matches according to objective functions that may be established in a commercial context. For example a personal agent can run a real time auction for ad slots in a TV program. The TV program provider can specify an objective function that the personal agent will use to rank bids from advertisers. This is just one of many examples of relationships and interactions among a personal agent and other stakeholders.

In some embodiments the personal agent may be trusted to among other things protect and or secure personal information and inferences derived therefrom e.g. as reflected in a personal ontology graph prevent unauthorized access to personal information and associated inferences by third parties provide a user with a mechanism to view their personal information and or an associated personal ontology graph and to control the use of information included therein and or the like. An advertiser merchandiser and or other service may trust the personal agent to effectively match their interest criteria with interests associated with a user accurately apply objective functions used in auctions effectively rank advertisements deals content etc. that are presented to a user in a commercial context and or the like. In situations where service and content providers rely on the personal agent to choose or auction ad slots that monetize their content or service the service or content provider may trust the personal agent to properly maximize the objective function in the selection of ads.

In some embodiments advertisers and or other content providers may want to know when and in what context an advertisement was presented to a user. This may include for example some of the attributes that were used to match the ad to a particular user. The personal agent may securely provide such information in a manner that does not include personally identifiable information associated with the user.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to provide the user with the ability to control what personal information is divulged and to whom and to control how the information is used. For example a user may not want a certain attribute and or interest to be used in targeting advertising services even though the privacy of the information will be maintained by a personal agent. Embodiments of the personal agent may allow a user to implement such controls over the use of their personal information.

In some embodiments the personal agent may distinguish between interests and attributes that are self declared as opposed to those that are inferred or computed from raw data. In some circumstances an advertiser might choose to give preference to self declared or inferred information in different contexts. For example for some attributes a person might self declare misleading information such as I like to hike on weekends . An outdoors specialty merchandiser however may choose to ignore certain self declared interest in favor of targeting users who are observed by their personal agent to actually hike in the wilderness every weekend or very often. On the other hand certain attributes may be difficult to infer accurately and in that case the advertiser might choose to target a self declared interest than an inferred interest.

System and methods disclosed herein may allow for the collection of large amounts of user personal information to be used for information targeting targeted advertising recommending products and services and personalizing services. Since in some embodiments data is protected and effectively not shared and since the user controls the use of that data through the personal agent privacy may be deeply and extensively preserved. In certain embodiments the personal agent may access a significant amount of information obtained by a device including without limitation location data transaction data and or any other data associated with a user and or a user s interactions with of a device. To protect user privacy in some embodiments a personal agent may without limitation 

In some embodiments the personal agent will destroy a user s data and inferences derived from it upon request by the user. A user may further direct a personal agent to liquidate its own instance. A user may then create a new personal agent for example under a new pseudonym. The personal agent may further be designed to be discrete. For example requests and queries made by the personal agent e.g. in the context of searches performed by the personal agent or the like may not include the source of the requests. For example the personal agent may utilize incognito searches secure proxy servers and the like.

A personal agent can be used by services and applications to find advertising and other content that is most appropriate for a user in their current situation including for example a current time and or place e.g. as determined by one or more location based sensors device and or content or activity a user may be engaging in and or the like. In one embodiment the personal agent may be active in pulling the information that is appropriate for a user. The personal agent may search for best matched information e.g. advertisements and when auctions are used the best price may be determined for the advertisements that are the most relevant in the current context. Personal agents may cache personalized and contextualized advertisements for use on many devices not just the device where a cookie is stored.

An aspect of the efficiency of certain embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein is the diversity and decentralization of methods for determining relevance and for personalizing advertisements and recommendations. In some embodiments one or more software development kits SDKs and or application programming interfaces APIs may be published that allow others to devise ways for applying recommendation and matching methodologies so that a matching algorithm can be sent to are user s personal agent for implementation. This may be utilized for auctions as well as for non competitive relevance ranking and effectively may allow a personal agent to learn and become smarter over time. In some embodiments this process can be enabled further by publishing and referring to standardized taxonomies for interests and personal attributes along with ontologies for products and services. This may enable third parties to make each personal agent more intelligent in its ability to derive inferred interests and or target advertisements and content.

Embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein may be utilized to ensure that some or all of the above described considerations for collection and sharing of personal information are followed through one or more personal information collection distribution and or usage policies that govern these activities. For example in some embodiments rules regarding the collection and or distribution of personal information including information stored in a personal ontology graph may be articulated in one or more policies enforced by the systems and or devices in a content and or advertisement ecosystem. Such a policy driven system may among other things enable the automated collection and sharing of personal information in accordance with local laws and regulations and or user preferences. By using a policy driven system under control of a user the user may manage the collection and use of their personal information.

In certain embodiments data flows within the system may occur in a policy driven manner. In some embodiments this may allow for the system to comply with local laws privacy regulations and or user preferences regarding the management distribution and or use of personal information. Exemplary policies that may be implemented by the systems and methods disclosed herein may include without limitation policies regarding what information may be collected by a device and how such information is collected e.g. what types of personal information is collected the conditions under which the personal information is collected etc. how the personal information may be used limitations on collection of personal information e.g. how many days of personal information should be collected how long it should be retained size limits on collected information whether users can set modify these limits whether users can opt in opt out of collection activities any or any other desired limitations and or the like.

As discussed above a personal ontology graph consistent with embodiments disclosed herein may create private representations of a user s behavior interests and or demographics based on a variety of available information. The personal ontology graph may utilize information volunteered by a user e.g. declared interests and information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device as well as various inferred information e.g. inferred interests relating to the user.

Certain embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein may be integrated into a variety of applications executing on a user s device e.g. using an SDK or the like . For example as illustrated in a user device may have a variety of installed applications . The installed applications may be provided to the user device from a variety of parties and services. For example a first application may be provided by a streaming movie service a second application may be provided by a retailer and a third application may be provided by a targeted offer provider. In some embodiments the parties and services providing applications may be unrelated entities.

Embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein may be included as components of applications . In some instances components of applications implementing the systems and methods disclosed herein may be integrated into the applications using an appropriate SDK. For example application may include a component implementing certain embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein. The component may include for example a module implementing personal information collection and a module implementing a personal agent . In certain embodiments functionality associated with the personal information collection and personal agent modules may be associated with a single module.

The personal information collection module may collect personal information volunteered by a user and or information collected by monitoring a user s activities in connection with an associated device e.g. device activity information . For example the personal information collection module may collect among other things sensor information application data usage and or activity data and or location information. In certain embodiments the personal information collection module may collect personal information associated with the use of an application the module is associated with. For example if application interfaces with one or more device sensors in its operation such information may be collected by personal information collection module in conjunction with application data associated with application .

The personal agent module may implement functionality associated with a personal agent as disclosed herein. In some embodiments the modules may allow for collection of personal information while an associated application is actively running on the device . In further embodiments the modules may allow for collection of personal information while an associated application is running in a background of the device .

Information collected by modules may be provided to a trusted service for use in connection with generating a personal ontology graph consistent with embodiments disclosed herein. In certain embodiments component and or modules may interface with the trusted service via a public API exposed by the service. In some embodiments such an interface may present itself to components and or modules as a set of logically grouped objective C classes and or protocols.

In some embodiments information provided by a particular application component and or its constituent modules may be utilized to generate associated inferences included in a personal ontology graph. In some embodiments a service associated with an application may be able to configure what information the component and or its constituent modules may be capable of collecting in connection with the application. For example the service may configure certain sensor information used in connection with the application to be collected by modules and disable collection of other sensor information.

A service associated with the application may further have certain control over the use of such information by other services and or entities. For example a particular entity s service may provide the trusted service with an indication that information derived from its application should not be made available for use by other services in connection with information targeting operations. In other circumstances however a service may allow other services and or entities to utilize personal information collected by its application in connection with information targeting services e.g. based on reciprocal relationships and or the like . By allowing personal information gathered by a component included in an application to be used by other services and or entities in information targeting operations a more detailed and robust model of the user s interests and behaviors may be built in the personal ontology graph to the benefit of all services utilizing the systems and methods disclosed herein.

As illustrated in system may include a processor system memory which may include some combination of high speed RAM non volatile memory and or one or more bulk non volatile computer readable storage mediums e.g. a hard disk flash memory etc. for storing programs and other data for use and execution by the processor a user interface that may include a display and or one or more input devices such as for example a touchscreen a keyboard a mouse a track pad and the like a port for interfacing with removable memory that may include one more diskettes optical storage mediums e.g. compact discs DVDs etc. and or other computer readable storage mediums e.g. flash memory thumb drives USB dongles etc. a network interface for communicating with other systems via a network using one or more communication technologies one or more sensors that may comprise one or more location sensors and or any other sensor system including for example any of the sensor systems disclosed herein and one or more buses for communicatively coupling the aforementioned elements.

In certain embodiments network may comprise the Internet a local area network a virtual private network a cellular communications network a WiFi network and or any other communication network utilizing one or more electronic communication technologies and or standards e.g. Ethernet or the like . In some embodiments the network interface and or network may be part of a wireless carrier system such as a PCS and or any other suitable communication system incorporating any suitable communication standards and or protocols. In further embodiments the network interface and or network may be part of an analog mobile communications network and or a digital mobile communications network utilizing for example CDMA GSM FDMA and or TDMA standards. In still further embodiments the network interface and or network may incorporate one or more satellite communication links and or utilize IEEE s 802.11 standards near field communication Bluetooth UWB Zigbee and or any other suitable standards or technologies.

In some embodiments the system may alternatively or in addition include a secure processing unit SPU that is protected from tampering by a user of system or other entities by utilizing secure physical and or virtual security techniques. An SPU can help enhance and or facilitate the security of sensitive operations such as private management of private personal information and other aspects of the systems and methods disclosed herein. In certain embodiments the SPU may operate in a logically secure processing domain and be configured to protect and operate on secret information. In some embodiments the SPU may include internal memory storing executable instructions or programs configured to enable the SPU to perform secure operations.

The operation of system may be generally controlled by the processor and or operating by executing software instructions and programs stored in the system memory and or other computer readable media such as removable memory . The system memory may store a variety of executable programs or modules for controlling the operation of the system . For example the system memory may include an OS for managing and coordinating in part system hardware resources and providing for common services for execution of various applications. The system memory may further include without limitation one or more applications e.g. media applications or other device applications a personal agent utilized in managing personal information relating to a user and or advertisement and content targeting operations described herein a personal ontology graph representing a variety of user interests as described herein an inference engine configured to generate one or more inferred interests associated with available personal information as disclosed herein and or a matching engine for performing certain advertisement and or content targeting and or matching operations as disclosed herein. The system memory may further include any other functional module configured to implement the systems and methods disclosed herein when executed by the processor and or SPU .

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the systems and methods described herein can be practiced with computing devices similar or identical to that illustrated in or with virtually any other suitable computing device including computing devices that do not possess some of the components shown in and or computing devices that possess other components that are not shown. Thus it should be appreciated that is provided for purposes of illustration and not limitation.

The systems and methods disclosed herein are not inherently related to any particular computer electronic control unit or other apparatus and may be implemented by a suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware. Software implementations may include one or more computer programs comprising executable code instructions that when executed by a processor may cause a computer system to perform a method defined at least in part by the executable instructions. The computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. Further a computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. Software embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that comprises a non transitory storage medium configured to store computer programs and instructions that when executed by a processor are configured to cause a computer system to perform a method according to the instructions. In certain embodiments the non transitory storage medium may take any form capable of storing processor readable instructions on a non transitory storage medium. A non transitory storage medium may be embodied by a compact disk digital video disk a magnetic tape a magnetic disk flash memory integrated circuits RAM ROM or any other non transitory memory device.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the systems and methods described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

