---

title: Methods and apparatus for rules-based multi-factor verification
abstract: In one embodiment, a verification platform is adapted for communication with at least a first device. The verification platform receives a verification request from the first device, identifies one or more verification rules previously established by a user of the first device for processing of the verification request, sends a notification regarding the one or more verification rules, receives verification input responsive to the notification, and grants or denies the verification request based at least in part on the received verification input. The verification rule or rules specify multiple distinct types of verification selected by the user, and a sequence in which the selected verification types are to be applied in processing the verification request. The verification request may be generated in conjunction with an attempted launch of a designated application on the first device. The first device may comprise a mobile telephone, a computer or another type of device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426132&OS=09426132&RS=09426132
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09426132
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130912
---
The present application claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 699 961 and 61 699 966 filed Sep. 12 2012 which are incorporated by reference herein.

The field relates generally to user verification and more particularly to techniques for verifying the identity of a user of an electronic device.

In many verification systems users are required to enter static passwords in order to prove their identity so as to gain access to a protected resource. Different applications accounts or other types of protected resources associated with a given user may each require entry of distinct alphanumeric password thereby necessitating that the user remember multiple such passwords in order to access the corresponding resources. This is not only unduly burdensome for the user but can also undermine security in that the user will often write down the passwords or otherwise make them vulnerable to inadvertent disclosure.

It is also known to utilize interaction between multiple electronic devices in order to verify the identity of a given user. In verification systems of this type the devices may temporarily pair with one another utilizing peer to peer communications based on short range protocols such as Bluetooth. However such communications require that the devices be in close proximity to one another. Moreover the communications are usually not highly secure and therefore can be vulnerable to hacking.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention provide improved techniques for verification of user identity. Such arrangements exhibit significantly enhanced security relative to conventional arrangements while also avoiding the need for a user to remember multiple alphanumeric passwords. For example in some embodiments a rules based multi factor verification system comprises a verification platform in communication with at least one electronic device. The verification platform allows a user to establish rules for multi factor verification that are carried out by the electronic device in order to verify user identity. The user does not need to remember passwords as multiple distinct types of verification such as voice verification face verification location verification motion verification and third party verification can be applied in accordance with rules established by the user through interaction with the verification platform. Such an arrangement provides multiple layers of protection while allowing the user to select the particular types of verification to be applied as well as the order in which the selected types of verification are applied.

In one embodiment a verification platform is adapted for communication with at least a first device. The verification platform receives a verification request from the first device identifies one or more verification rules previously established by a user of the first device for processing of the verification request sends a notification regarding the one or more verification rules receives verification input responsive to the notification and grants or denies the verification request based at least in part on the received verification input. The one or more verification rules specify multiple distinct types of verification selected by the user and a sequence in which the selected types of verification are to be applied in processing the verification request.

The verification request may be generated in conjunction with an attempted launch of a designated application on the first device with user access to the designated application on the first device being controlled responsive to the granting or denying of the verification request.

Other embodiments can be configured to utilize both first and second devices in communication with the verification platform. In these embodiments there is no requirement that the two devices be in close proximity to one another and security of the communications is enhanced leading to reduced vulnerability to hacking relative to the above noted conventional arrangements that utilize device pairing via short range protocols.

The first and second devices may comprise mobile telephones computers or other types of devices in any combination.

All illustrations of the drawings are for the purpose of describing exemplary embodiments of the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention in any way.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention will be described herein with reference to exemplary systems and associated verification platforms user devices and other processing devices. It is to be appreciated however that the invention is not restricted to use with the particular illustrative system and device configurations shown. Accordingly the term communication system as used herein is intended to be broadly construed so as to encompass for example systems in which a single user device communicates with another processing device associated with a verification platform systems in which at least two user devices each communicate with another processing device associated with a verification platform and other types of systems.

A number of embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the flow diagrams of and the communication system diagram of . A given such embodiment implements rules based multi factor verification of user identity using a verification service that is supported by a verification platform. The verification service interacts with a verification application installed on at least one user device. In some embodiments the rules based multi factor verification utilizes only a single user device while in other embodiments the rules based multi factor verification utilizes first and second user devices also referred to herein as primary and secondary devices. Such devices in arrangements of the latter type may be considered examples of what are more generally referred to herein as simply first and second devices. Also other embodiments can be adapted to utilize three or more user devices to perform identity verification.

It will be assumed for description of the flowcharts of that the rules based multi factor verification utilizes only a single user device also referred to herein as a first device. The first device may be viewed as the primary device denoted in the exemplary system of . However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the described arrangements can be adapted in a straightforward manner for use with primary and secondary user devices or with three or more user devices.

The verification service is implemented using a verification platform that illustratively includes a verification platform application programming interface API and a verification platform server. The verification platform API supports communication with a verification agent implemented on the user device. The verification application on the user device illustratively includes a login screen an application selection screen and a verification selection screen but numerous alternative screen arrangements or other types of user interfaces can be used in other embodiments.

The embodiments of may be viewed as more particular examples of arrangements in which the verification platform receives a verification request from the first device identifies one or more verification rules previously established by a user of the first device for processing of the verification request sends a notification regarding the one or more verification rules receives verification input responsive to the notification and grants or denies the verification request based at least in part on the received verification input. The one or more verification rules specify multiple distinct types of verification selected by the user and a sequence in which the selected types of verification are to be applied in processing the verification request.

The verification request may be generated for example in conjunction with an attempted launch of a designated application on the user device and user access to the designated application on the user device may be controlled responsive to the granting or denying of the verification request. The designated application on the user device is also referred to herein as a secure application as its access from the user device is conditioned on satisfactory completion of rules based multi factor verification.

In the present embodiment granting of the verification request requires that the user device be enrolled in the verification service supported by the verification platform. Such enrollment may also be referred to herein as involving enrollment of a corresponding user in the verification service.

An exemplary enrollment process for the user device is shown in . This process includes steps through .

In step the rules based multi factor verification application is installed on the device by a user. Once the verification application has been installed the user registers an email address with the verification service and goes through an email verification process as indicated in step . When the email address has been verified the verification application is launched in step . The verification selection screen is presented in step and the user is prompted via the verification selection screen as indicated at step to select the desired methods of verification and the order in which they are performed. These verification methods are more generally referred to herein as distinct types of verification. By way of example the user can select the types of verification he or she would like to use from a displayed list and can also configure the particular manner in that the different types of verification are to be applied. The latter may involve the user specifying logic functions such as AND and OR between selected verification types that indicate the manner in which the selected verification types should be applied.

The available verification types in the present embodiment may comprise for example two or more of voice verification face verification location verification motion verification and third party verification although additional or alternative verification types may also be used. The particular verification types and their sequence of application may be selected based on the desired level of protection.

For example a user could choose to require both face and voice verification to access to given secure application. In this case the user selects the two verification types and specifies that they are to be applied in accordance with a logic AND function such that both verification types must be satisfied in order to gain access to the secure application. Alternatively the user could require face or voice verification. In this case the user selects the two verification types and specifies that they are to be applied in accordance with a logic OR function such that face verification would be attempted first and in the event that face verification fails the device would attempt to authorize access using voice verification.

Such specifications are examples of what are more generally referred to herein as one or more verification rules established by a user. A given such verification rule or set of verification rules generally specifies multiple distinct types of verification selected by the user and a sequence in which the selected verification types are to be applied in processing the verification request. Thus the selection step in the exemplary process may be viewed as a user establishing one or more verification rules for rules based multi factor verification.

Additional or alternative selection functions can be provided by the verification selection screen or other interfaces in other embodiments. After the selections in step the user device is enrolled in the verification service. Accordingly the user associated with the device is considered enrolled as indicated in step .

In other embodiments alternative enrollment processes may be used. For example the selection of particular verification types and sequence in which those types should be applied can be managed through a web based administrative interface. Such management can be used to generate verification rules for a given user or for groups of multiple users and may further involve adding or removing users from particular groups or otherwise updating verification rules responsive to user input or designated policies. These and other provisioning functions may therefore be performed by a user or a system administrator.

In step the login screen of the verification application is presented to the user. Responsive to input from the user the verification platform server in step checks the user. This illustratively involves determining in step if the user is an active user. If the user is not an active user the verification platform server sends an activation email in step presents terms of use and a user agreement in step and then returns the user to the login screen at step . If the user is determined in step to be an active user the verification platform server in step checks for any verification rules for that user. This involves determining in step if any verification methods are defined.

If there are no verification methods defined for the user the user is directed in step to the verification selection screen to select one or more verification rules in the manner previously described. Verification method enrollment is then completed in step and the user is directed in step to the application selection screen.

If it is determined in step that there are verification methods defined for the user the user is verified in step based on the corresponding verification rules and then directed in step to the application selection screen. Accordingly after verification of the user in step the user could be provided with access to a particular secure application via the application selection screen. Alternatively selection of the particular secure application could automatically trigger the user verification portion of the process. As indicated above a given verification rule as that term is broadly used herein includes specification of multiple verification types and a sequence in which those verification types are to be applied in verifying a user at the corresponding device.

Referring now to a process for communication between the verification service and the user device in an illustrative embodiment is shown. It is assumed in this embodiment that the verification service is supported by a verification platform that includes a verification platform API and a verification platform server. The verification platform API is adapted for communication with a verification agent implemented on the user device. The verification platform API is assumed to be coupled to the verification platform server so as to support communications between these platform components. The process illustrated in includes steps through as shown.

In step a user attempts to access an application on the user device that requires rules based multi factor verification of the type described previously. As noted above such an application on the user device is also referred to herein as a secure application. The verification application may be running in the background on the device such that when an attempt is made to launch a secure application on the device the user device verification agent intercepts the launch process.

The user device verification agent then encrypts a corresponding verification request and invokes the verification platform API in step . The verification platform API then invokes a verification platform server session in step to determine any rules for the launch of the application. This is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as identifying one or more verification rules previously established by a user of a first device for processing of a verification request. In the event the user device verification agent determines that the verification platform server is non responsive to the verification request then a cached copy of the rule or rules may be used if available.

If one or more verification rules are found in step the verification platform server informs the verification platform API in step of any such rule or rules that must be met to launch the secure application and the verification platform API sends an event notification to the user device verification agent in step . The verification application is provided with verification request notification in step . This illustratively involves displaying the verification request on the user device via the verification application although other types of notifications regarding a given verification request may be used.

In response to such notification the user performs the required forms of verification on the device in step and the user device verification agent then encrypts the corresponding verification input and invokes the verification platform API in step . The verification platform API in step invokes a verification platform server session to determine the requesting device and the validity of the verification input provided by that device. The verification input for each required verification type may be provided to the verification platform server in separate sessions or combined into a single session.

The verification platform server in step informs the verification platform API of the verification results. The verification results are illustratively in the form of grant or denial of the initial verification request received from the user device in conjunction with the attempted launch of the secure application on that device. Alternatively separate results can be provided for respective ones of the required verification types. The verification results are assumed to be provided in this embodiment in association with an identifier of the corresponding user device. The verification platform API then sends an event notification to the user device verification agent as indicated in step .

The user device verification agent in step then either authorizes or denies the launch of the secure application on the user device. Thus if the rules based multi factor verification is successful the secure application can be accessed by the user. Otherwise the user cannot access the secure application.

Communications between the verification agent and the verification platform API may utilize one or more of JavaScript Object Notation syntax REpresentational State Transfer REST based client server architecture and mutual client server certificate based encryption and authentication.

As a more particular example of communications of the latter type a verification application acting as a client provides a certificate to the verification platform server and the server provides its certificate to the client. Both certificates are verified using a certificate authority which has signed both the client and server certificates. The information is transmitted between the client and server over a Secure Socket Layer SSL using 128 bit or 256 bit Advanced Encryption Standard AES cipher encryption. The cipher encryption strength may be selected at least in part as a function of parameters such as device operating system type and transport capabilities as well as other factors influencing the ability of a given device to support the desired encryption level.

It should be understood that the above noted communication types are only examples and numerous other communications may be used in other embodiments. Additional details regarding the above noted AES techniques as well as examples of other cryptographic techniques suitable for use in providing secure communications in embodiments of the invention can be found in A. J. Menezes et al. Handbook of Applied Cryptography CRC Press 1997 which is incorporated by reference herein.

As indicated above a wide variety of different verification types may be made available for user selection as part of one or more verification rules in a given embodiment of the invention. Examples of enrollment and verification processes associated with particular verification types will now be described in conjunction with . More specifically illustrate voice enrollment and verification illustrate face enrollment and verification and illustrate location enrollment and verification. It is to be appreciated that similar enrollment and verification processes may be used for other verification types.

Referring initially to an exemplary process is shown for voice enrollment of a user device with the verification service. The voice enrollment process includes steps through as shown.

In step the user is presented with the login screen of the verification application. When the user logs in to the verification application the verification application searches for a microphone on the device in step . If it is determined in step that the device does not have a microphone voice verification is not shown as a selectable option on the verification selection screen as indicated in step . If it is determined in step that the device does have a microphone then voice verification is a selectable option on the verification selection screen and the user is directed to that screen in step . If the user via the verification selection screen selects voice verification as one of the verification types and has not previously performed the voice enrollment process the user is directed to select voice enrollment as indicated in step .

When voice enrollment is selected a set of numbers or phrases is displayed on the screen in step . For example the set of numbers or phrases may include a total of five numbers or phrases or other arrangements of multiple numbers or phrases. The user reads the displayed numbers or phrases into the device microphone in step . If the numbers or phrases are recognized in step then another set of numbers or phrases is displayed on screen until it is determined in step that a total of six sets of numbers or phrases have been displayed and it is further determined in step that all six sets of displayed numbers or phrases are usable. Although a total of six sets of numbers or phrases is used in this embodiment other numbers of sets and set sizes can be used in other embodiments.

A negative determination in any of steps and returns the process to step to display another set. If six usable sets of numbers or phrases are obtained the voice enrollment is complete. A determination is then made in step as to whether or not the user needs to go through an enrollment process for another factor such as face or location. If another such enrollment is needed the user is directed to the verification selection screen in step and otherwise is directed to the application selection screen in step .

In step the user is presented with the login screen and upon determination of a successful login in step the user is directed in step to the application selection screen at which the user selects a secure application to launch requiring voice verification. A set of numbers or phrases e.g. a set of five numbers or phrases are then displayed on the screen of the user device in step for the user to enter by speech. The set of numbers or phrases are then read into the microphone of the user device.

If it is determined in step that the user s voice and the numbers or phrases were recognized the secure application is launched in step . If the user s voice and the numbers or phrases are not recognized the user can retry voice verification up to a set number of times as indicated by the return path through steps and back to step . If it is determined in step that the maximum number of verification attempts have been made then the user is redirected to the login screen in step .

Another verification type may then be applied in accordance with the one or more verification rules previously established by the user. If a successful verification is performed using another verification type in a manner that satisfies the established rule or rules then the secure application is launched on the device.

Referring now to an exemplary process is shown for face enrollment of a user device with the verification service. The face enrollment process includes steps through as shown.

In step the user is presented with the login screen of the verification application. When the user logs in to the verification application the verification application searches for a camera on the device in step . If it is determined in step that the device does not have a camera face verification is not shown as a selectable option on the verification selection screen as indicated in step . If it is determined in step that the device does have a camera then face verification is a selectable option on the verification selection screen and the user is directed to that screen in step . If the user via the verification selection screen selects face verification as one of the verification types and has not previously performed the face enrollment process the user is directed to select face enrollment.

In conjunction with the enrollment a determination is made in step regarding the particular device being utilized by the user. More particularly this determination in the present embodiment involves determining if the user device is running an old or new version of the Android operating system. Depending upon the result of the determination in step an old or new Android version is enrolled in step or and then the user is directed to the application selection screen as indicated in step .

As part of step or the user is prompted to take a picture of his or her face. Alternatively the face enrollment process may prompt the user to take a video of his or her face rather than a static picture of the face. Such an arrangement facilitates a determination that the face subsequently presented for verification purposes is live rather than taken from a photograph. For devices running on newer operating systems such as the new Android version noted above the verification application can make use of facial recognition software to more readily determine the face of the user. This is particularly useful for devices without front cameras as the user s face can be recognized without necessarily being in the middle of the picture frame.

In step the user is presented with the login screen. Upon successful login the user is directed in step to the application selection screen at which the user selects a secure application to launch requiring face verification. The device camera is checked in step . Step can also be reached from step as indicated by a user launching a protected application from a dashboard. The user then uses the device camera to take a picture or video of his or her face. The picture or video is referenced and may be compared to any prior picture or video previously used for face enrollment.

Depending upon the particular device facial verification operations particularly adapted for either old or new Android operating systems are run in step . If it is determined in step that the facial verification was successful then the secure application on the device is launched in step . If the facial verification is not successful the user can retry face verification based on a new picture or video up to a set number of times as indicated by the return path from step back to step . If it is determined in step that the maximum number of verification attempts have been made then the user is redirected to the login screen in step .

Another verification type may then be applied in accordance with the one or more verification rules previously established by the user. If a successful verification is performed using another verification type in a manner that satisfies the established rule or rules then the secure application is launched on the device.

Referring now to an exemplary process is shown for location enrollment of a user device with the verification service. The location enrollment process includes steps through as shown.

In step the user is presented with the login screen of the verification application. When the user logs in to the verification application the user is directed to the verification selection screen in step . If the user via the verification selection screen selects location verification as one of the verification types and has not previously performed the location enrollment process the user is directed to select location enrollment.

In conjunction with the enrollment the verification application in step determines the current location of the user. This may be accomplished using for example techniques such as cell tower triangulation GPS or Wi Fi registration. The user s current location is used as the default location as indicated in step .

The user is also directed to a map screen and can then select via steps and multiple locations that the user wishes to use for location verification. Each time the user elects to add another location in step the process returns to step to allow the additional location selection in step . If there are no further locations to be added the user is directed to the application selection screen in step .

In step the user is presented with the login screen. Upon successful login or alternatively upon launch of a secure application requiring location verification from the application selection screen location verification is performed in step . This generally involves verifying that the user device is currently located at either the default location or one of the locations selected in step of the enrollment process of .

If it is determined in step that the location verification was successful the process moves to step after which either the user is directed to the application selection screen in step or the secure application is launched in step depending on whether the location verification was initiated from login in step or from the application selection screen in step . More particularly if it is determined in step that the location verification was initiated from login in step the user is directed to the application selection screen in step and if it is determined in step that the location verification was initiated by launch of a secure application in step the secure application is launched in step .

If it is determined in step that the location verification was not successful a further determination is made in step as to whether or not the user has specified a fallback method of verification. If there is no fallback method specified the location verification fails in step and the user is directed to the application selection screen or the login screen as indicated in step . If there is at least one fallback method specified verification using the fallback method is performed as indicated by steps and . This may be viewed as one of the additional verification types selected by the user as part of a verification rule in the manner previously described or as a separate fallback method or methods associated only with failure of location verification.

As a more particular example multiple instances of third party verification may be available as respective fallback methods. Assume that there are four different available fallback methods namely a call a short message service SMS link SMS passcodes or another type of verification request although additional or alternative methods in any combination may be made available for use in a given embodiment. The user can select one or more of these fallback methods via the verification selection screen. The SMS passcodes are also referred to herein as SMS token codes.

The various fallback methods utilized in this example all involve directing a communication to a specified other phone number that is different than the phone number of the user device. It is assumed for purposes of this example that the user device is a mobile telephone.

For the call fallback method a call is placed to the specified other phone number and the user is prompted to press one or more specific phone keys.

For the SMS link fallback method an SMS link is sent to the specified other phone number and the user clicks on or otherwise selects the SMS link.

For the SMS token codes fallback method SMS token codes are sent to the specified other phone number and the user manually enters the received SMS token codes into the user device.

For the fallback method utilizing another type of verification request the request is sent to the specified other phone number and the user performs the corresponding verification action.

Upon successful completion of the specified fallback method the secure application is launched on the user device.

As indicated above numerous alternative combinations of fallback methods could be used. It is also possible that a given fallback method can make use of local verification via Bluetooth or other short range protocol.

Similar fallback methods may be established for other verification types as part of one or more verification rules established by a user.

As in the voice and face verification processes of respective another verification type may then be applied in accordance with the one or more verification rules previously established by the user. If a successful verification is performed using another verification type in a manner that satisfies the established rule or rules then the secure application is launched on the device.

Additional examples of rules based multi factor verification will now be described with reference to . It is to be appreciated however that numerous other combinations of multiple verification types can be used.

In these and other embodiments the sequence in which the selected types of verification are to be applied may be specified in the form of multiple security levels in which each such level requires satisfaction of at least one of the selected types of verification. The selected types of verification at a given level may be combined using a logic AND function such that all of the verification types at that level need to be satisfied. Alternatively the selected types of verification at a given level may be combined using a logic OR function such that only one of the verification types at that level needs to be satisfied. Numerous other combinations of verification types may be specified using these and other logic functions as part of one or more verification rules.

Referring now to an arrangement is illustrated in which face verification OR voice verification is required in a first security level AND location verification is required in a second security level. The first level of security in this arrangement may therefore be viewed as having one specified fallback method of verification namely voice verification while the second level of security does not have any specified fallback method of verification. This exemplary rules based multi factor verification process as illustrated includes steps through .

In step an attempt is made to launch a secure application requiring rules based multi factor verification. Upon initiation of the launch it is determined that the application requires face OR voice verification in a first security level AND location verification in a second security level as indicated in step . Accordingly in step the face verification is performed. If it is determined in step that the face verification is not successful the voice verification is performed in step .

If either the face verification or the voice verification was successful as determined in respective steps and the process moves to step to perform location verification. If both the face verification and the voice verification are not successful the verification fails as indicated in step . The verification will also fail if the location verification is not successful as indicated by steps and . However if one of the face and voice verification is successful and the location verification is successful the secure application is permitted to launch as indicated in step . Accordingly in this example a user must complete either face and location verification or voice and location verification in order to gain access to the application being launched.

A second example of rules based multi factor verification is shown in . More particularly an arrangement is illustrated in which location verification is required in a first security level AND voice verification face verification OR third party verification is required in a second security level. The first level of security in this arrangement may therefore be viewed as having not having any specified fallback method of verification while the second level of security has two distinct fallback methods after voice verification namely face verification and third party verification. This exemplary rules based multi factor verification process as illustrated includes steps through .

In step an attempt is made to launch a secure application requiring rules based multi factor verification. Upon initiation of the launch it is determined in step that the application requires location verification in a first security level AND voice verification OR face verification OR third party verification in a second security level. Accordingly in step the location verification is performed. If it is determined in step that the location verification is not successful the verification fails as indicated in step .

If the location verification was successful as determined in step the process moves to step to perform voice verification. If the voice verification is successful as determined in step the secure application is permitted to launch in step . Otherwise the face verification is performed in step and if determined to be successful in step will permit launch of the application. If the face verification is not successful as determined in step the third party verification is performed in step and if determined to be successful in step will permit launch of the application.

If voice verification face verification and third party verification all fail then the overall verification process fails as indicated in step . However if the location verification is successful and one of the voice face and third party verification is successful the secure application is permitted to launch as indicated in step . Accordingly in this example a user must successfully complete location verification and either voice face or third party verification in order to gain access to the application being launched.

Again numerous other alternative configurations of verification rules comprising sequences of verification types arranged in multiple security levels may be implemented using AND OR and other logic functions.

The third party verification referred to in certain embodiments above may be performed for example by storing the voice and face recording of the user requesting verification and forwarding this information to a third party recipient for verification. The third party recipient may be selected by the verification platform in accordance with the established verification rules. For example the verification platform may select a third party recipient from the user s social network or from the user s organizational hierarchy. In the latter case the third party recipient may be selected as a party to whom the user reports or another party with adequate authority to approve or decline the request for verification. Once the selected third party recipient receives the request e.g. via SMS or email he or she is provided with options to approve or decline the request for access by the user. Accordingly the response is sent back to the user requesting verification.

As indicated above other fallback methods or alternative verification types that could be used as part of rules based multi factor verification in embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to calling a specified device and requesting verification and using SMS to send a verification link or verification token codes to a specified device.

It is to be appreciated that processing operations and other system functionality such as that described in conjunction with can be implemented at least in part in the form of one or more software programs stored in memory and executed by a processor of a processing device such as a computer or server. As will be described below a memory or other storage device having such program code embodied therein is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a processor readable storage medium. 

Also the particular processing operations and other system functionality described in conjunction with the flowcharts of are presented by way of illustrative example only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. Alternative embodiments can use other types of processing operations for rules based multi factor verification or other types of verification of user identity implemented using one or more user devices and a verification platform. For example the ordering of the process steps may be varied in other embodiments or certain steps may be performed concurrently with one another rather than serially.

It was noted above that in some embodiments two or more user devices are utilized to implement multi factor verification. If two devices are used for verification then the two devices need not communicate with one another directly but instead can communicate through a verification platform.

An exemplary communication system in an embodiment of this type is shown in . In this embodiment a communication system comprises a primary device a secondary device and a verification platform arranged between the primary and secondary devices. The verification platform communicates with the primary and secondary devices and via respective communication channels and . In the present embodiment there is no pairing or other direct communication required between the primary and secondary devices. The primary device is illustratively shown as comprising one of a mobile telephone A or a laptop computer B. Similarly the secondary device is illustratively shown as comprising one of a mobile telephone A or a laptop computer B. As mentioned previously a wide variety of other types of electronic devices may be used in other embodiments.

The primary device and the secondary device are both configured to run the rules based multi factor verification application.

The verification platform is configured to include a verification platform API and a verification platform server as noted above but may comprise additional or alternative components in other embodiments.

In the embodiment a verification request is sent from the primary device and processed by the verification platform to determine an appropriate notification to send to the secondary device . The secondary device is used to provide verification input to the verification platform responsive to the notification and in accordance with the selected verification types so as to thereby control access to an application on the primary device. It is assumed that verification agents of the type previously described run on both the primary and secondary devices and information is sent from a given such verification agent to the verification platform API in encrypted form. The verification platform API communicates with the verification platform server to determine one or more verification rules and to process verification input in the manner previously described.

Again the user verification techniques in such an embodiment do not require that the two devices be in close proximity to one another as in the above noted conventional pairing arrangements using Bluetooth or other short range protocols. The use of the verification platform as an intermediary between the primary and secondary devices also allows for enhanced communication security thereby reducing vulnerability to hacking.

The primary device in the embodiment may be viewed as the first user device in other embodiments described herein.

In some embodiments other types of verification in addition to or in place of the above described voice face location motion or third party verification can be used. For example numeric token verification or approve decline verification may be used. Numeric token verification can be implemented by sending digits to the secondary device. The digits must then be entered into the primary device within a predetermined length of time to determine verification. Approve decline verification can be implemented by sending a message with the option to either approve or decline to the secondary device. From the secondary device a user can allow verification by selecting approve or can deny verification by selecting decline. Other types of verification based on behavioral knowledge gestures colors or other types of information may be used in any combination.

The communication system or portions thereof may be implemented using one or more processing platforms. For example verification platform may be implemented on a processing platform comprising a plurality of networked processing devices. An example of such a processing platform is processing platform shown in .

The processing platform in this embodiment comprises a portion of system and includes a plurality of processing devices denoted . . . K which communicate with one another over a network .

The network may comprise any type of network including by way of example a global computer network such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a satellite network a telephone or cable network a cellular network a wireless network such as WiFi or WiMAX or various portions or combinations of these and other types of networks.

The processing device in the processing platform comprises a processor coupled to a memory . The processor may comprise a microprocessor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other type of processing circuitry as well as portions or combinations of such circuitry elements and the memory which may be viewed as an example of a processor readable storage medium having executable computer program code embodied therein may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other types of memory in any combination.

Also included in the processing device is network interface circuitry which is used to interface the processing device with the network and other system components and may comprise one or more conventional transceivers.

The other processing devices of the processing platform are assumed to be configured in a manner similar to that shown for processing device in the figure.

Again the particular processing platform shown in the figure is presented by way of example only and communication system may include additional or alternative processing platforms as well as numerous distinct processing platforms in any combination with each such platform comprising one or more computers servers storage devices or other processing devices.

It should therefore be understood that in other embodiments different arrangements of additional or alternative elements may be used. At least a subset of these elements may be collectively implemented on a common processing platform or each such element may be implemented on a separate processing platform.

Also numerous other arrangements of computers servers storage devices or other components are possible in the communication system . Such components can communicate with other elements of the communication system over any type of network or other communication media.

As indicated previously components of a communication system as disclosed herein can be implemented at least in part in the form of one or more software programs stored in memory and executed by a processor of a processing device such as one of the processing devices . As noted above a memory or other storage device having such program code embodied therein is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a processor readable storage medium.

Articles of manufacture comprising such processor readable storage media are considered embodiments of the present invention. A given such article of manufacture may comprise for example a storage device such as a storage disk a storage array or an integrated circuit containing memory. The term article of manufacture as used herein should be understood to exclude transitory propagating signals.

It should again be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration only. Many variations and other alternative embodiments may be used. For example the particular types and arrangements of user devices verification platforms and applications used in a given embodiment can be varied as can the particular types of messaging or other communications exchanged between system components. Also a wide variety of different types of verification rules verification types sequences and security levels may be used other than those explicitly described herein. Moreover the various assumptions made above in the course of describing the illustrative embodiments should also be viewed as exemplary rather than as requirements or limitations of the invention. Numerous other alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

