---

title: Acquiring online meeting data relating to an online meeting
abstract: A technique acquires online meeting data relating to an online meeting. The technique involves running, by processing circuitry, a set of programs (e.g., an operating system, a slideshow application, a word processing program, other programs, etc.) to carry out an online meeting which shares online meeting content among a set of users. The technique further involves performing, while the processing circuitry runs the set of programs to carry out the online meeting, a set of information collection operations by the processing circuitry. The set of information collection operations collects online meeting data from the set of programs. The collected online meeting data includes non-bitmap text-based information extracted from the set of programs (e.g., keywords, phrases, etc. obtained via procedure calls using standard APIs to the set of programs). The technique further involves storing, by the processing circuitry, the collected online meeting data in a designated location of computer memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356977&OS=09356977&RS=09356977
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09356977
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
A conventional web conference typically shares visual data and voice data among multiple conference participants. To create a web conference the conference participants connect their client devices to a conference server e.g. through the Internet . The conference server typically processes visual data e.g. a desktop view from a presenting participant a camera view from each conference participant etc. and provides that visual data to the client devices for display on display screens so that all of the conference participants are able to view the visual data. Additionally the conference server typically combines voice data from all of the conference participants into a combined audio feed and shares this combined audio feed with all of the conference participants. Accordingly conference participants are able to watch visual content as well as ask questions and inject comments to form a collaborative exchange even though the conference participants may be scattered among remote locations.

Some conventional conference servers are capable of recording web conferences. As a result a participant of a web conference or someone who missed the web conference is able to playback the web conference e.g. to access an audio discussion screenshots etc. at a later time. An online meeting system which operates in a manner similar to that described above is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 214 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES FOR GENERATING A SUMMARY DOCUMENT OF AN ONLINE MEETING the teachings of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety.

Although conventional conference servers may be able to record web conferences it may be difficult for someone to subsequently find a certain recorded web conference that he or she is interested in. For example for someone to find a particular recorded web conference that person may need to listen through or watch portions of several recorded web conferences before finding the particular recorded web conference in mind.

As an alternative someone could be hired to manually label or transcribe each recorded web conference for future access. However such manual labeling may be time consuming burdensome and prone to labeling errors inconsistencies.

In contrast to a conventional approach of gathering web conference recordings which remain unlabeled or which are manually labeled improved techniques are directed to acquiring online meeting data in an automated manner from a set of programs e.g. an operating system a slideshow application other user level programs and so on . Such operation enables convenient and consistent tagging of the online meeting data for later use e.g. indexing sorting searching etc. . In particular information presented during an online meeting such as window titles headers subheadings etc. can be extracted and subsequently used for accurate tagging of the online meeting data. Moreover the automated nature of such operation alleviates the need for manual labeling which can be time consuming burdensome and error prone.

One embodiment is directed to a method of acquiring online meeting data relating to an online meeting. The method includes running by processing circuitry a set of programs or applications to carry out an online meeting which shares online meeting content among a set of users. The method further includes performing while the processing circuitry runs the set of programs to carry out the online meeting a set of information collection operations by the processing circuitry. The set of information collection operations collects online meeting data from the set of programs. The collected online meeting data includes non bitmap text based information extracted from the set of programs e.g. keywords phrases etc. . The method further includes storing by the processing circuitry the collected online meeting data in a designated location of computer memory.

In some arrangements performing the set of information collection operations includes performing a set of library routines via a set of function or procedure calls to a set of application programming interfaces APIs . Such operation obtains at least some of the non bitmap text based information extracted from the set of programs.

In some arrangements the set of programs running on the processing circuitry includes an operating system. In these arrangements performing the set of library routines via the set of function calls to the set of APIs may include extracting a set of window titles from the operating system via a set of operating system function calls to the operating system. In addition or as an alternative performing the set of library routines via the set of function calls to the set of APIs may include extracting a set of file identifiers from a filesystem of the operating system via a set of file access function calls to the operating system.

In some arrangements the set of programs running on the processing circuitry includes a word processing application. In these arrangements performing the set of library routines via the set of function calls to the set of APIs may include extracting a set of headings from the word processing application via a set of word processing application function calls to the word processing application.

In some arrangements the set of programs running on the processing circuitry includes a slide presentation application. In these arrangements performing the set of library routines via the set of function calls to the set of APIs may include extracting a set of slide titles from the slide presentation application via a set of slide presentation application function calls to the slide presentation application.

In some arrangements the set of programs running on the processing circuitry includes a browser application. In these arrangements performing the set of library routines via the set of function calls to the set of APIs may include extracting a set of links from the browser application via a set of browser application function calls to the browser application.

In some arrangements performing the set of information collection operations further includes tagging i the non bitmap text based information extracted from an operating system and ii the non bitmap text based information extracted from a user level application. Such operation is capable of placing the non bitmap text based information in an indexable and searchable form prior to storing the collected online meeting data in the designated location of computer memory.

In some arrangements tagging includes identifying keywords and phrases in the non bitmap text based information. In these arrangements tagging may further include associating respective tags with portions of the non bitmap text based information based on keywords and phrases identified in the portions of the non bitmap text based information.

In some arrangements associating the respective tags with the portions of the non bitmap text based information includes comparing the identified keywords and phrases with a predefined dictionary to discover a set of uncommon terms in the non bitmap text based information. Here associating further includes attaching at least some of the respective tags to the portions of the non bitmap text based information based on the set of uncommon terms discovered in the non bitmap text based information.

In some arrangements the method further includes ranking the portions of the non bitmap text based information based on the associated tags. Such operation enables organizing the portions of the non bitmap text based information e.g. for searching sorting etc. .

In some arrangements the method further includes capturing screenshots of the online meeting and storing the captured screenshots in a set of screenshot files in the designated location of computer memory.

In some arrangements the designated location of computer memory is an online workspace. In these arrangements the method may further include providing remote access from the online workspace to a set of client devices through a computerized network to enable online users to access the collected online meeting data.

In some arrangements providing remote access includes automatically constructing and outputting a set of navigation pages. Accordingly one or more online users may then be able to find e.g. search sort select etc. the collected online meeting data among other collections of online meeting data.

It should be understood that in the cloud context the electronic circuitry is formed by remote computer resources distributed over a network. Such a computing environment is capable of providing certain advantages such as enhanced fault tolerance load balancing processing flexibility etc.

Other embodiments are directed to electronic systems and apparatus processing circuits computer program products and so on. Some embodiments are directed to various methods electronic components and circuitry which are involved in acquiring online meeting data relating to an online meeting.

An improved technique is directed to acquiring online meeting data in an automated manner from a set of programs e.g. an operating system a slideshow application other user level programs and so on . Such a technique enables accurate and consistent tagging of the online meeting data for later use e.g. for indexing sorting searching etc. . Along these lines information presented during an online meeting such as window titles headers subheadings etc. can be extracted e.g. via procedure calls through standard APIs and subsequently used for tagging the online meeting data. Furthermore the automated nature of such operation alleviates the need for manual labeling which can be time consuming burdensome and error prone.

Each client device is constructed and arranged to operate among other things as an online meeting client as well as perform other useful work on behalf of a respective user . For example the client device enables a user to participate in online meetings. Similarly the client device enables a user to participate in online meetings and so on. Examples of additional useful work include enabling respective users to access the Internet via a browser application operating as a word processor allowing users to read and send email and or text messages and so on. It should be understood that a variety of apparatus are suitable for use as the client devices such as general purpose computers user workstations laptop computers tablets smart phones voice over IP VoIP phones standard telephones combinations thereof etc.

The online meeting server is constructed and arranged to host online meetings among the users as well as automatically collect and store online meeting data from one or more programs. In particular the online meeting data may be stored in an online workspace for future access e.g. searching sorting navigating etc. by one or more users . Moreover it should be understood that the online meeting may take a variety of online collaboration approaches such as audio only video only a combination of audio and video point to point online conferencing online webinars online training online technical assistance online file sharing online workspace sharing online project management online workflows combinations thereof and so on.

The communications medium is constructed and arranged to connect the various components of the electronic environment together to enable these components to exchange electronic signals e.g. see the double arrow . At least a portion of the communications medium is illustrated as a cloud to indicate that the communications medium is capable of having a variety of different topologies including backbone hub and spoke loop irregular combinations thereof and so on. Along these lines the communications medium may include copper based data communications devices and cabling fiber optic devices and cabling wireless devices combinations thereof etc. Furthermore the communications medium is capable of supporting LAN based communications cellular communications standard telephone communications combinations thereof etc.

During operation each client device runs a set of applications to carry out an online meeting which shares online meeting content among the users . For example the user initially may be a presenter and run a slideshow program and the other users . . . may participate as attendees to watch the slide show. Furthermore at some point during the online meeting one of the other users . . . may take over as the presenter and run the same slideshow program or perhaps a different program such as a word processor application a browser and so on. As a result the online meeting participants are able to share visual content as well as ask questions and inject comments to form a collaborative exchange even though the participants may be distributed across various remote locations.

Moreover while each client device runs its respective set of applications to carry out the online meeting the online meeting server performs a set of information collection operations to collect online meeting data from the client devices . Such collected online meeting data includes among other things non bitmap text based information also see and associated metadata extracted from the sets of applications e.g. via standard API function calls to the applications running on the client devices . As will be explained in further detail below such metadata describes particular attributes of the text such as text size location color style e.g. bold italics etc. source object type timing information combinations thereof and so on.

The online meeting server then stores the collected online meeting data in a designated location of computer memory e.g. memory on the online meeting server in the cloud etc. Accordingly the users are able to later access the collected online meeting data once the online meeting is over e.g. to review material in closer detail to study material if the user missed the online meeting etc.

In some arrangements at least some of the collection of the online meeting data is performed by one or more of the client devices . In these arrangements the online meeting data may be stored on a particular client device and or sent to another computerized storage location i.e. computer memory such as the online meeting server or separate cloud storage at a later time for subsequent access by other users .

Additionally in some arrangements the online meeting server locally runs a set of applications to collect online meeting data . As mentioned earlier such collected online meeting data may include a combination of visual and audio data exchanged during the online meeting. Further details will now be provided with reference to .

The network interface is constructed and arranged to connect the electronic apparatus to the communications medium also see . Accordingly the network interface enables the electronic apparatus to communicate with the other components of the electronic environment . Such communications may be copper based optical based or wireless i.e. IP based POTS based SAN based cellular Bluetooth combinations thereof and so on .

The memory is intended to represent both volatile storage e.g. DRAM SRAM etc. and non volatile storage e.g. flash memory magnetic disk drives etc. . The memory stores a variety of software constructs including a local set of applications an operating system i.e. essentially an application and a specialized application to collect online meeting data via a set of standard APIs i.e. the specialized application is capable of extracting non bitmap text based information from the set of applications via standard API function calls .

The processing circuitry is constructed and arranged to operate in accordance with the various software constructs stored in the memory . Such circuitry may be implemented in a variety of ways including via one or more processors or cores running specialized software application specific ICs ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and associated programs discrete components analog circuits other hardware circuitry combinations thereof and so on. In the context of one or more processors executing software a computer program product is capable of delivering all or portions of the software to the electronic apparatus . The computer program product has a non transitory or non volatile computer readable medium which stores a set of instructions which controls one or more operations of the electronic apparatus . Examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus which store instructions in a non volatile manner such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

The additional circuitry is dependent on whether the electronic apparatus is a client device the online meeting server or a dedicated external system. For example if the electronic apparatus is a user s workstation the additional circuitry may include user interface hardware such as a standard keyboard a pointing device e.g. mouse a headset e.g. microphone and speakers and a display. Similarly if the electronic apparatus is a user s smart phone or tablet device the additional circuitry may include a touch screen a camera phone hardware and so on.

Alternatively if the electronic apparatus is the online meeting server or a dedicated external system the additional circuitry may include other types of specialized hardware. For example if the electronic apparatus operates as a central location from which to share online meeting data from multiple online meetings among the users the electronic apparatus may include web server circuitry to serve web pages to the users . Such additional circuitry enables the users to navigate among multiple web pages to search rank sort select etc online meeting data collected from the various online meetings. Further details will now be provided with reference to .

As shown in the specialized circuitry is capable of collecting the online meeting data from applications during an online meeting hosted by the online meeting server . Along these lines the specialized circuitry accesses the operating system running on the electronic apparatus via calls to the operating system using an operating system API see horizontal dashed line in . Similarly the specialized circuitry accesses user level applications . . . running on the electronic apparatus via calls to the operating system using respective user level application APIs see vertical dashed line in .

For example suppose that a user directs the specialized circuitry to collect windows header or title information from certain windows used in a particular online meeting. Such direction may be supplied by the user via a GUI a command line interface etc. In response the specialized circuitry accesses the operating system of the electronic apparatus via the operating system API to collect the windows header information from the operating system .

Moreover other standard calls to the operating system are available for use as well. For example using the standardized operating system API the specialized circuitry may extract path names to directories time information attendee information and so on.

Similarly the user may direct the specialized circuitry to gather and store online meeting data from certain user level applications which are used in a particular online meeting. As mentioned above the specialized circuitry accesses the user level applications of the electronic apparatus via the user level application APIs .

Likewise the user may direct the specialized circuitry to collect online meeting data from other user level applications such as a word processing application e.g. page headings titles etc. a browser application e.g. URLs or links keywords or phrases etc. an email application e.g. email messages subject line information attachments etc. and so on.

It should be understood that the online meeting data which is extracted from the applications may include items of text as well as metadata which describes attributes related to the items of text. An item of text and associated metadata can be returned in response to a single API call e.g. included as part of the non bitmap text based information returned within various fields of a data structure etc. . In other arrangements an item of text and its associated metadata can be returned via separate API calls . It should be further understood that such metadata is useful in making inferences on items of text when there are no direct candidates.

Along these lines the earlier provided examples illustrate ways of obtaining particular items of text directly from an application when the API is robust and the creator of the content has properly labeled the items within the content. For example to extract a title from a slideshow or a slide the application may support the API call get slideshow titles and the creator of the slideshow may have properly labeled an item of the slideshow or of a particular slide as the title so that the API call properly returns that item.

However suppose that a particular application does not provide an API call which directly identifies a particular item of text or that the content creator has not properly labeled items of text. In such situations the title can be inferred from the associated metadata. Examples of suitable metadata include text size location within a context e.g. screen location location within a slide or a document etc. text color text style e.g. bold italics etc. text case e.g. upper case vs. lower case relevance based on whether the text resides in a relevance database or whether the text includes delimiters e.g. bullets a copyright symbol etc. source object type timing information e.g. timestamps amounts of time displayed a display order etc. combinations thereof and so on.

For example suppose that a particular slide does not include any word or phrase which is labeled expressly as a title. Rather suppose that the extracted online meeting data includes a first phrase which is identified by associated metadata as a center title a second phrase which is identified by associated metadata as a subtitle a third phrase which is identified by associated metadata as residing within a square object and a fourth phrase which is identified by associated metadata as residing within a circle object. In these situations a set of inference operations can be performed on the gathered information to select a particular item as the title such as the first phrase which is identified by associated metadata as a center title.

As another example suppose that multiple slides are displayed during a particular slideshow and that each item of text extracted from the slideshow has associated metadata indicating when and how long the item of data was displayed during the slideshow. In this situation a set of inference operations can be performed on the gathered information to weight each item of online meeting data as a possible candidate for a title of the slideshow. The weight of each item may be based on the order of presentation i.e. the first displayed item the next displayed item the last displayed item etc. how long the item was displayed and so on. Other attributes may be factored into the weights as well such as font size text location text color text style etc. The set of inference operations then selects the title or subtitle etc. from the items of online meeting data based on the assigned weights. Further details will now be provided with reference to .

In some arrangements the online meeting data is separated into multiple files of various file types. For example one file can include a list of headings from a slide show that is presented using a slide show application during an online meeting. As another example another file can include a list of URLs or webpage links that were visited using a browser application during the online meeting. As yet another example yet another file can include a list of filenames or the files themselves that were touched read or opened by the operating system during the online meeting and so on.

In some arrangements the subfolder is a shared workspace that the users are able to access at any time e.g. during the online meeting after the online meeting etc. Accordingly the users can more thoroughly study the online meeting data during and after the online meeting.

In some arrangements the collected online meeting data can be augmented with other data such as screen shots audio captions etc. This other data may be tagged ranked sorted etc. as well. Moreover non text based information may be included in the collected online meeting data to enrich the stored content e.g. screenshots photos audio clips etc. .

In some arrangements the various files and or content within the files e.g. non bitmap text based information extracted from the applications is tagged by the specialized circuitry in real time during the online meeting. Alternatively a recording of the online meeting is tagged via post processing after the online meeting. Such tagging enables the files and or file content to be indexed sorted searched etc. for subsequent convenient access.

In some arrangements the tagged online meeting data from separate online meetings is stored in respective subfolders i.e. separate subfolders or subdirectories . Accordingly each subfolder holds a collection of tagged online meeting data from a particular online meeting.

In other arrangements online meeting data from different online meetings is commingled in a single subfolder or subdirectory. In these arrangements the online meeting data is sufficiently tagged to enable the users to individually identify and access the content of the online meetings.

With the files and or file content tagged users are now able to find meetings that they are interested in. Along these lines the users are able to discover and search online meeting data from online meetings e.g. search for interesting content . Furthermore in contrast to conventional voice transcription which can improperly tag or misspell technical terms the collected content here is guaranteed to be correct and applicable since it includes actual non bitmap text based extracted from the applications used during the online meetings. In particular important data about the online meeting from the operating system about the application s in focus e.g. the window title headings and other text in the application windows etc. is automatically retrieved and stored electronically by the specialized circuitry . Additionally the specialized circuitry can hook into common applications such as common slide show applications word processing applications etc. and from them collect slide titles transitions and other online meeting data about the subjects discussed.

For example after removing common phrases from the titles of slides the specialized circuitry can generate a good summary of the online meeting by just listing the titles one after the other. Also uncommon words in titles and the rest of the content in slides can serve as good keywords for tags and searching. Furthermore the specialized circuitry can also take snapshots of screen sharing sessions when there are big changes followed by a long period of small or no changes. Moreover for the case of a slide show presentation the specialized circuitry can generate slide images by hooking into slide show program based on slide changes and thus generate a visual summary of the meeting. Also the specialized circuitry can extract hyperlinks visited or present in the slides. The specialized circuitry can also monitor files touched by the presenters during the presentation and so on.

Once the online meeting data is placed in a location in computer memory all of that information including tags and keywords can be made available to an online workspace. Accordingly users can then search for meetings based on slide snapshot titles keywords tags etc. Also users can discover interesting content via posting searching the tags in a tag cloud.

Further users can easily edit the summary tags and other information uploaded to the shared workspace to improve accuracy and remove things. Additionally the specialized circuitry can improve summarization further by noting how long each slide or snapshot was on screen and using that to weigh the data gathered from that slide e.g. by applying weights to each content item or during that snapshot and so on.

It should be understood that various organization schemes other than a file system can be used to arrange online meeting data easy navigation e.g. in different subdirectory layers in a database etc. In some arrangements the specialized circuitry provides a set of navigation web pages. Accordingly one or more online users may then be able to find e.g. search sort select etc. the collected online meeting data among other collections of online meeting data . Further details will now be provided with reference to .

In step the electronic apparatus runs a set of programs to carry out an online meeting which shares online meeting content among a set of users . Along these lines the online meeting server hosts the online meeting by operating as both a video engine and an audio engine to share video and audio among the client devices .

In step while the electronic apparatus runs the set of programs to carry out the online meeting the electronic apparatus performs a set of information collection operations. In particular the electronic apparatus collects online meeting data from the set of programs e.g. via standard APIs . The collected online meeting data includes non bitmap text based information extracted from the set of programs e.g. window titles file names and paths headers links etc. .

In step the electronic apparatus stores the collected online meeting data in a designated location of computer memory. Accordingly users are able to access the online meeting data for a richer experience e.g. tag index search filter etc. the online meeting data .

As described above improved techniques are directed to acquiring online meeting data in an automated manner from a set of programs e.g. an operating system a slideshow application other user level programs and so on . Such operation enables convenient and consistent tagging of the online meeting data for later use e.g. indexing sorting searching etc. . In particular information presented during an online meeting such as window titles headers subheadings etc. can be extracted and subsequently used for tagging the online meeting data . Moreover the automated nature of such operation alleviates the need for manual labeling which can be time consuming burdensome and error prone.

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

For example it should be understood that various components of the electronic environment are capable of being implemented in or moved to the cloud i.e. to remote computer resources distributed over a network. Here the various computer resources may be distributed tightly e.g. a server farm in a single facility or over relatively large distances e.g. over a campus in different cities coast to coast etc. . In these situations the network connecting the resources is capable of having a variety of different topologies including backbone hub and spoke loop irregular combinations thereof and so on. Additionally the network may include copper based data communications devices and cabling fiber optic devices and cabling wireless devices combinations thereof etc. Furthermore the network is capable of supporting LAN based communications SAN based communications combinations thereof and so on. Such modifications and enhancements are intended to belong to various embodiments of the disclosure.

