---

title: Integration of high-efficiency, lightweight solar sheets onto unmanned aerial vehicle for increased endurance
abstract: Some embodiments include a kit for increasing endurance of a battery-powered unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) by incorporating flexible solar cells or applying flexible solar cells on a surface of a UAV or on a surface of a component of a UAV. The kit further include a power conditioning system configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power having a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09315267&OS=09315267&RS=09315267
owner: MICROLINK DEVICES, INC.
number: 09315267
owner_city: Niles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
The present application claims benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 599 390 filed Feb. 15 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8650 09 D 5037 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL . The government has certain rights in this invention.

Many of the current generation of unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs are electrically powered. Most electrically powered small UAVs are battery powered such as the RAVEN Wasp III and Puma AE by AeroVironment Inc. of Monrovia Calif. and the MAVERIC UAS by PRIORIA ROBOTICS of Gainesville Fla. The endurance i.e. total flight time of the vehicle with a full battery charge of the current generation of small electrically powered unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs is limited by power consumed by the UAV and the energy storage capacity of the battery. For example the endurance of the RAVEN UAV is limited to approximately 90 minutes of flight time. The limit on endurance of small UAVs reduces the operational effectiveness of the small UAVs because it limits the time the UAV can spend over a target of interest and limits a distance range for targets.

Some embodiments may increase an endurance of battery powered unmanned aerial vehicles UAV by adding a secondary power source in the form of a plurality of solar cells attached to or incorporated into a surface of the UAV or of a component of the UAV. Endurance of a battery powered UAV may be defined as a total flight time with an initially fully charged battery or as a total flight time with an initial specified battery charge level. The plurality of solar cells may have high specific power ratio of power to mass and may be relatively light in weight. Further some embodiments include kits for increasing endurance of a battery powered UAV.

In one embodiment a kit for increasing endurance of a battery powered UAV includes a component of a battery powered UAV with a plurality of solar cells attached to or incorporated into the component. The component is configured to be installed on a battery powered UAV. The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV.

In some embodiments the component may be at least a portion of a wing with the plurality of solar cells attached to and or integrated into the wing. The kit may be installed by installing a wing or portion of a wing on a previously produced UAV aircraft e.g. a stock commercially produced UAV such as the RAVEN .

The power conditioning system may include a power conditioning circuit. In some embodiments the power conditioning system also includes an electrical connection system configured to connect the power conditioning circuit with the plurality of solar cells and to connect the power conditioning circuit with an electrical system of the UAV. In some embodiments the electrical connection system includes a wiring harness. In some embodiments the power conditioning system is configured to charge a battery of the UAV with power supplied by the plurality of solar cells.

Another embodiment of the technology is directed to a kit for increasing endurance of a battery powered UAV that includes a plurality of solar cells configured to be attached to a surface of a battery powered UAV. In some embodiments at least some of the plurality of solar cells are configured to be attached to a surface of a wing or wings of a UAV. In some embodiments at least some of the plurality of solar cells are configured to be attached to a top surface of a wing. In some embodiments at least some of the plurality of solar cells are configured to be attached to an underside of a wing. In some embodiments at least some of the plurality of solar cells are be configured to be attached to a fuselage of an UAV. In some embodiments at least some of the plurality of solar cells may be configured to be attached to a non wing non fuselage surface of a UAV e.g. a vertical stabilizer a horizontal stabilizer .

In some embodiments each of solar cells has a specific power of at least 800 W kg of at least 900 W kg or at least 1000 W kg. In some embodiments each of the solar cells has a specific power between 800 W kg and 3000 W kg between 900 W kg and 3000 W kg or between 1000 W kg and 3000 W kg.

In some embodiments each of the solar cells has a thickness of less than 70 microns e.g. between 12 and 70 microns .

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells is incorporated into at least one flexible solar sheet. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power of at least 400 W kg at least 600 W kg at least 700 W kg at least 900 W kg or at least 1000 W kg. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power of 400 1200 W kg of 600 1200 W kg of 700 1200 W kg or of 900 1200 W kg.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cell includes inverted metamorphic solar cells. In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells includes flexible triple junction solar cells. In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells includes single junction solar cells dual junction solar cells and or triple junction solar cells. In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells includes solar cells produced using an epitaxial lift off ELO process. In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells includes an AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs IMM solar cell.

In some embodiments a kit is configured to retrofit a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the kit is configured for upgrading a UAV during production.

In some embodiments the kit is configured to improve an endurance of a UAV by at least 50 at least 80 at least 90 at least 100 or at least 120 as compared with an endurance of the UAV without the solar power source.

In some embodiments the kit is configured to provide between 40 and 99 of the average power consumed by the UAV during use.

In some embodiments the kit is configured for increasing the endurance of a small battery powered UAV.

The endurance of the current generation of small electrically powered is limited due the operational power requirements for the UAV and the limited energy storage capacity of the battery e.g. the endurance of the RAVEN small UAV is 60 90 minutes . Increasing endurance enhances the operational effectiveness of a small UAV because a UAV with enhanced endurance can spend more time over the target of interest and or can travel to targets further away. Adding additional batteries may increase the endurance of a UAV however the additional batteries would substantially increase the weight of the UAV thereby reducing its payload or degrading its aerodynamic characteristics.

One of the problems addressed by some embodiments described herein is how to substantially increase the endurance of a UAV e.g. a small battery powered UAV such as the RAVEN or a larger UAV without substantially increasing its size or weight. Some embodiments address this problem by providing a kit to equip a UAV with lightweight flexible high efficiency solar cells e.g. one or more solar cell strings or sheets of solar cells that supply additional power to the UAV thereby significantly increasing the endurance of the UAV as compared to a UAV without solar cells. Because the solar cells have relatively small mass per unit area they do not add significant weight to the UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells have a high specific power power to mass ratio providing significant power generation for relatively little added weight. For small UAVs e.g. portable UAVs that may be transported or deployed by a single person in the field it is particularly important that the solar cells do not significantly increase the overall weight of the UAV which could degrade the aerodynamic performance of the UAV and decrease its endurance.

As used herein the term small UAV includes portable UAVs that may be carried by a single person. The term small UAV includes what may be referred to elsewhere as micro UAVs and mini UAVs and larger portable UAVs. Examples of small UAVs include the RQ 11B RAVEN UAV system with a weight of 1.9 kg and a wingspan of 1.4 m the WASP Micro Air Vehicle MAV with a weight of 0.43 kg and a wingspan of 72 cm and the RQ 20A Puma with a weight of 5.9 kg and a wingspan of 2.8 m produced by AeroVironment Inc. the MAVERIC UAV with a 72 cm in wingspan and a loaded weight of about 1.1 kg from Prioria Robotics Inc. and the SCANEAGLE with a 3.1 m wingspan and an 18 kg from Boeing Insitu. As used herein the term small UAV does not include high altitude long endurance HALE aircraft such as the GLOBAL OBSERVER with a 53 m wingspan produced by AeroVironment Inc. or the Phantom Eye UAV with a wingspan of 46 m by Boeing Phantom Works.

Some embodiments described herein are broadly applicable to different sizes and different types of electrically powered UAVs. Some embodiments described herein are directed to small battery powered UAVs. Some embodiments described herein are applicable to large UAVs.

In some embodiments a kit including a plurality of solar cells e.g. one or more strings of solar cells solar cell strings or one or more sheets of solar cells solar sheets and a power conditioning system is used to increase endurance of a UAV. For example schematically depicts solar sheets of a kit mounted on a UAV e.g. a RAVEN UAV that includes a battery power system. As shown high efficiency flexible solar sheets have been mounted on a surface of the UAV e.g. the wing of the UAV . The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range or at a maximum power point and configured to provide a specified voltage to an electrical system of the UAV see below . The power conditioning system may also be configured to charge an energy storage device e.g. battery of the UAV system see below .

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells e.g. one or more solar cell strings or solar sheets may be installed on a surface of a previously produced UAV e.g. as a post manufacturing modification . For example solar sheets of a kit may be applied to the wings of a previously produced UAV. The power conditioning system and associated electrical wiring may be installed in the wings and fuselage of the previously produced UAV and interfaced with the existing electrical system of the previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the kit may be an upgrade retrofit or aftermarket kit for installation on a previously produced UAV.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells e.g. solar sheet s may be mounted on or incorporated into a surface of a component of a UAV. The power conditioning system and associated electrical wiring e.g. electrical harness and connectors of the kit may be installed in the component. For example illustrates solar sheets each including multiple solar cells c incorporated into a wing component forming a wing assembly .

In some embodiments the component with the solar sheet s e.g. wing assembly is used to replace a similar component in a previously produced UAV as a post manufacturing modification e.g. as a retrofit or as an aftermarket modification . For example a wing assembly including an installed kit may be used to replace a wing component in a previously produced UAV.

In some embodiments the component with the solar sheets e.g. the wing assembly is used during an initial manufacturing process of a UAV e.g. as an upgrade . For example a wing assembly with an installed kit may be incorporated into a UAV during initial manufacturing or assembly of the UAV as opposed to adding the solar cells and or the power conditioning system to a previously produced UAV.

Some embodiments may include an upgrade kit a retrofit kit or an aftermarket kit for existing UAVs such as the RAVEN UAV the Wasp III UAV the Puma AE UAV and the MAVERIC UAS. Different embodiments of kits can be used with different types or different models of UAVs.

In some embodiments the UAV may be designed with parts and connections configured for the incorporation of flexible light weight high efficiency solar cells. Incorporation of the solar cells into the UAV design may result in better aerodynamics more robust electrical connections and reduced additional weight to due to the solar cells packaging and wiring harness. Some embodiments may include small UAVs specifically designed for hybrid battery solar operation such as UAVs that are primarily battery powered with a secondary solar power system including flexible lightweight high efficiency solar cells.

In the embodiments depicted in the plurality of solar cells is incorporated into four solar sheets. In other embodiments the plurality of solar cells may be incorporated into less than four solar sheets e.g. one two or three solar sheets or may be incorporated into more than four solar sheets. In some embodiments the kit includes one or more solar sheets and one or more strings of solar cells or individual solar cells not incorporated into solar sheets. In some embodiments all of the plurality of solar cells are in the form of strings of solar cells or individual solar cells and not incorporated into solar sheets.

In the embodiment depicted in the solar cells are positioned close to a leading edge of the wing with areas near the trailing edge of the wing not covered by solar cells. In this particular embodiment the center space near the trailing edge of the wing was left uncovered to avoid blocking reception of an internal antenna of the UAV. In other embodiments additional solar cells could be mounted in the areas near the trailing edge of the wing e.g. by incorporating more solar cells into sheets and or by adding additional solar sheets to increase the amount of solar power generated and thereby further enhance UAV endurance.

In the embodiments of the solar sheets are mounted on an upper surface of the wing . In some embodiments solar cells e.g. one or more solar sheets are applied to other surfaces of the UAV or to other components of the UAV including but not limited to one or more of the horizontal stabilizer the vertical stabilizer the fuselage and the underside of the wings. Solar cells on the sides and underside of the UAV collect light scattered from the ground as well as from the sun and sky.

The plurality of solar cells may be single junction solar cells multi junction solar cells e.g. double junction solar cells triple junction solar cells or any combination of single junction solar cells and multi junction solar cells. Although triple junction solar cells generally have a higher efficiency than that of single junction or double junction solar cells triple junction solar cells are generally more complicated to produce and may have a narrower wavelength range for high efficiency performance. The efficiency of the dual junction and single junction cells is less sensitive to the spectrum of the incident light than that of a triple junction cell so more energy may be obtained from dual junction or single junction cells when the cells are exposed to scattered light rather than to direct sunlight. Accordingly in some embodiments it may be desirable to use dual junction or single junction cells on the underside of the wings or the fuselage where the ratio of scattered light to direct sunlight is greater than for a top side of the wings.

The solar cells in the kit must be flexible to conform to an underlying curved aerodynamic shape of a surface of UAV or of a UAV component onto which they will be mounted or into which they will be incorporated. Solar cells for a small UAV may need to be more flexible than solar cells for a large UAV due to the higher curvatures present in surfaces of small UAVs. Further flexible solar cells are more durable than similar non flexible or less flexible i.e. more brittle solar cells during installation and during use.

As noted above the solar cells in the kit should have a total mass that is relatively small compared to the mass of the UAV and should have a relatively low mass per unit area. This criterion is more difficult to meet for small UAVs than for large UAVs because the total mass of the small UAVs is relatively small.

Because additional mass tends to increase the power required to operate a battery powered UAV the power supplied by the solar cells of the kit must more than compensate for the increase in the UAV mass due to the presence of the kit to increase endurance of a battery powered UAV. Thus only solar cells having sufficient specific power power per unit mass would increase the endurance of a battery powered UAV.

In some embodiments a specific power of the plurality of solar cells is at least a threshold value e.g. at least 500 W kg at least 800 W kg at least 1000 W kg at least 1100 W kg . In some embodiments the specific power of the solar cells falls within a specified range e.g. 500 3000 W kg 800 2800 W kg 800 2500 W kg 900 2500 W kg .

The specific power of a solar cell depends on the efficiency of the solar cell electrical energy produced divided by solar energy absorbed for a unit area of the solar cell and the mass per unit area of the solar cell. Thus a solar cell with a relatively high specific power has a relatively high efficiency and or a relatively low mass per unit area. Solar cells free of a substrate e.g. solar cells produced using epitaxial lift off ELO may be particularly well suited for a kit because they have a reduced mass per unit area and greater flexibility as compared to solar cells attached to an underlying substrate.

In general if the materials of a solar cell remain the same decreasing the thickness of the solar cell increases the flexibility of the solar cell. As noted above increased flexibility allows the solar cell to conform to an aerodynamic shape of a UAV surface or of the surface of a UAV component and increases the durability of the solar cell. In some embodiments each solar cell may have a thickness of less than a specified thickness e.g. less than 125 m less than 100 m less than 70 m less than 50 m less than 40 m . In some embodiments each solar cell may have a thickness that falls in a specified range e.g. 12 125 m 12 100 m 12 70 m 20 50 m 12 40 m .

As noted above at least some of a plurality of solar cells may be incorporated into a flexible solar sheet. For example in some embodiments lightweight solar cells or strings of solar cells are disposed between polymer films to form flexible solar sheets to aid in easier handling and installation and to provide greater protection of the solar cells. The flexible solar sheets conform to curved aerodynamic surfaces. In some embodiments the flexible solar sheets provide robust waterproof packaging. The flexible solar sheets may be applied to or incorporated into a surface of a UAV or of a component of a UAV.

Due to added mass of polymer materials in solar sheets a solar sheet of a plurality of solar cells has a lower specific power than the specific power of the solar cells themselves. Also if the solar sheet has a top layer the top layer may reduce the efficiency of the solar sheet e.g. by absorbing some of the incident light before it reaches the solar cell . In some embodiments a solar sheet has a specific power of at least a specified value e.g. least 180 W kg at least 250 W kg at least 300 W kg at least 350 W kg at least 400 W kg. In some embodiments a solar sheet has a specific power falling with a specified range e.g. 180 1100 W kg 250 1100 W kg 300 1100 W kg 350 1100 W kg 400 1100 W kg .

The overall increase in mass of the UAV due to installation of the kit should be small relative to the total weight of the UAV. For example in some embodiments the installed kit increase weight of the UAV by less than 2 by less than 5 by less than 10 by less than 15 or by less than 20 . As noted above this requirement may be more challenging for small UAVs than for large UAVs.

Solar cells for the kit may be based on any number of suitable semiconductor materials like III V semiconductor materials e.g. GaAs based materials InP based materials etc. and Si based materials. The solar cells may be single junction solar cells multi junction solar cells e.g. double junction triple junction or a combination of single junction and multi junction solar cells. In general higher efficiencies can be obtained with multi junction solar cells than with single junction solar cells however multi junction solar cells are more complicated to make and can be more expensive. Examples of solar cells having relatively high efficiencies include triple junction inverted metamorphic IMM solar cells which may be produced using ELO or using methods that do not employ ELO. As a specific example triple junction IMM solar cells with an InGaP GaAs InGaAs grown inverted on GaAs by the inventors demonstrated efficiencies of greater than 29 for AM.

Further information regarding III V semiconductor solar cells produced by ELO e.g. single junction multi junction and IMM solar cells and how to manufacture III V semiconductor ELO solar cells may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 994 419 to Pan et al. issued Aug. 9 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further information regarding InP based solar cells produced by ELO single junction multi junction and IMM and how to manufacture InP based ELO solar cells may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 631 533 filed Sep. 28 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide a specified voltage to an electrical system of the UAV. is a block diagram of a power conditioning circuit included in the power conditioning system in accordance with some embodiments. The power conditioning circuit includes a maximum power point tracker MPPT connected with the solar cells. The MPPT is configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range. Any type of suitable MPPT component or circuit may be employed. The power conditioning circuit also includes a voltage converter that converts voltage from the MPPT into a voltage compatible with the electrical system of the UAV. Any suitable voltage conversion component or circuit may be employed e.g. a buck voltage converter DC to DC voltage reduction a boost voltage converter DC to DC voltage increase . In this embodiment the voltage converter is connected to an electrical system of the UAV through a switch switch A .

In some embodiments the power conditioning system may also be configured to charge energy storage device e.g. a battery of the UAV. are block diagrams representing a power conditioning system configured to charge an energy storage device of the UAV in accordance with some embodiments. Power conditioning system includes the power conditioning circuit and switch module A which connects with the UAV electrical system . As shown power conditioning system may also include a charging module and a switch module B that connect with an energy storage element e.g. a battery of the UAV.

In the system is operating in a first mode in which the solar cells supply just a portion of the power being used by the UAV electrical system . In this mode through switch module B the energy storage device e.g. battery supplements the power supplied by the solar cells for the UAV s electrical system . As indicated by arrows the charging module is bypassed in this mode. In the system is operating in a second mode in which the power supplied by the solar cells exceeds the power being used by the UAV electrical system and the excess generated power is directed through the charging module and switch module B to charge the energy storage e.g. a battery . A third mode of operation in which the power supplied by the solar cells exactly matches the power used by the electrical system is not depicted because generally speaking the third mode only occurs when shifting from the first mode to the second mode and vice versa . In some embodiments a UAV incorporating a secondary solar power system could be charged with exposure to sunlight before flight as well as during flight.

Electrical connections e.g. power bus lines wiring harness connecting the solar cells the power conditioning system the electrical system of the UAV and the energy storage device e.g. battery of the UAV may be integrated into one or more components of the UAV e.g. the wings or the fuselage .

Some embodiments increase an endurance of a UAV by at least 50 by at least 80 by at least 100 by at least 150 or by at least 200 as compared to a similar UAV that is only battery powered. In some embodiments the kit is configured to supply when installed 20 100 40 100 50 100 60 100 or 80 100 of the total average power during use.

Some embodiments include methods of increasing an endurance of a battery powered UAV. For example in method of a component that includes a plurality of solar cells is provided for a UAV step . In some embodiments the component is at least a portion of a wing for a UAV. A power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of a UAV is provided step . The component is installed in a UAV step . In some embodiments the provided component replaces a previously produced component of a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the component is installed in the UAV during manufacturing of the UAV. The power conditioning system is connected with an electrical system of the UAV step .

Method of depicts another method of increasing an endurance of a battery powered UAV. A plurality of solar cells is attached to a surface of a battery powered UAV step . The plurality of solar cells may be attached to a surface of a wing of the UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells are attached to a surface of a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells are attached during initial production of the UAV. A power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV is provided step . The power conditioning system is connected with the electrical system of the UAV step .

The inventors installed an example kit including solar cells and a power conditioning circuit in a small battery powered UAV specifically a RAVEN UAV. The modified UAV with the installed kit demonstrated a significant increase in endurance as compared with an identical UAV without the kit. A plurality of solar cells in the form of four solar sheets was integrated into a wing component of a battery powered RAVEN UAV in the configuration shown in . The wing modified to include a wiring harness that would supply solar power to the UAV battery and vehicle. The wing assembly including the solar sheets and associated electronics was installed on a previously produced RAVEN UAV as shown in . Further details regarding the solar cells and the solar sheets employed are described below with respect to .

The solar cells used in the solar sheets installed on the UAVs were triple junction AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs inverted metamorphic IMM solar cell made using an ELO process. Specifically the cell included an AlInGaP top cell a GaAs middle cell and an InGaAs bottom cell overlaying a metal backing layer. As noted above additional details regarding manufacturing of the triple junction IMM solar cell may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 994 419 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The solar cell thickness was less than 40 microns. The solar cells flexibly conformed to curved surfaces of the RAVEN model UAV. The triple junction IMM solar cell had a mass density of less than 250 g m.

The solar cells were interconnected to form an array. The triple junction IMM solar cells produced by ELO were laminated between polymer films to form flexible solar sheets. Specifically the solar array was packaged between two sheets of a polymer material such as TEFLON using sheets of transparent pressure sensitive adhesive PSA to attach the array to the polymer sheets. The top and bottom polymer sheets were transparent however in other embodiments the bottom polymer sheet need not be transparent. The antireflection coating of the cells was designed to give optimum performance with the polymer sheet and PSA. Electrical leads protruded from the solar sheets. The solar sheets were mounted on the top surface of the wing of the UAV using a sheet of PSA. The power conditioning circuitry PCC was installed in the UAV specifically in the wing. In other embodiments the PCC could be disposed at least partially in the fuselage. The PCC was connected to the solar sheets using the leads. Another set of leads routed the output of the PCC to the battery. The output of the PCC was connected in parallel with the output of the battery.

The flexible solar sheets had a demonstrated efficiency of at least 30 . The flexible solar sheets had an areal mass density of less than 250 g m2 and a power per unit area of greater than 250 W m2 in AM 1.5 illumination. The flexible solar sheets had a specific power of greater than 430 W kg. The solar sheets were about 215 m thick.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells are integrated into a component of a UAV. For example solar sheets may be produced as described above and then the solar sheets incorporated into a wing as the wing is produced using a molding process.

Although some embodiments are described herein with respect to battery powered UAVs one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that this disclosure also applies UAVs incorporating other types of devices for storing electrical energy e.g. fuel cells . Thus kits and methods for increasing the endurance of electrically powered UAVs e.g. fuel cell powered UAVs battery powered UAVs fall within the scope of this disclosure.

While the present invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes in form in detail may be made without parting from the intended scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims.

