---

title: Method for preparing micro-patterned superhydrophobic/superhydrophilic coatings
abstract: Provided herein are methods and materials for the production of hydrophobic coatings, which may be thermally treated to produce binary hydrophobic-hydrophilic regions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09139739&OS=09139739&RS=09139739
owner: THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
number: 09139739
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 671 456 filed Jul. 13 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CBET 1066426 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the manufacture and use of micro patternable hydrophobic coatings which may or may not contain hydrophilic regions. Degree of wettability of the coating ranges from superhydrophobic untreated to superhydrophilic heat treated .

The wettability of a material is dependent on both its physical and chemical characteristics. If a liquid spreads completely across the surface of a material and forms a film the contact angle is close to 0 degrees . If the liquid beads on the surface the surface is considered to be non wetting. For water the substrate surface is considered to be hydrophobic if the contact angle is greater than 90 . Certain applications may require a hydrophobic coating with a high contact angle of at least 150 . These coatings may be said to be superhydrophobic.

Surfaces patterned with alternating binary hydrophobic hydrophilic regions offer a template for efficient fluid collection and management technologies. Micro fluidic channels and wettability micro patterns produced from various photodegradation techniques of hydrophobic chemistry or plasma chemical approaches provide avenues for producing various forms of hydrophilic micropatterns on hydrophobic surfaces. However most patterning techniques require the use of masks e.g. plasma chemical photodegradation techniques photo induced techniques UV irradiation or closed environmental chambers. Masks limit the flexibility in changing the type of pattern during the process while chambers limit scalability and increase the patterning costs. Finally in some superhydrophilic patterning techniques the property is not permanent. Such coatings also require large concentrations of filler particles to attain superhydrophilicity which may reduce their adhesion and durability as compared with other coating systems.

A non toxic environment friendly process for forming surfaces with binary hydrophobic hydrophilic regions is desired. Compared to other organic based approaches advantages of such a process will include inherent thermal stability and scalability to large area applications.

Provided herein is a method for preparing a hydrophobic coating. The method comprises forming a dispersion of a hydrophobic silsesquioxane HSQ and a hydrophobic fumed silica HFS in a solvent. The solvent may be alcohol. The alcohol may be a mixture of one or more of methanol n butanol ethanol and isopropanol. The HFS is silica that may be modified with a compound selected from the group consisting of a silane a silazane and a siloxane. The HFS may be a siloxane modified silica. The HFS may be a silane modified silica. The dispersion may have from 3.0 wt to 3.5 wt of MSQ from 0.0 wt to 8.5 wt of HFS and from 88 wt to 97 wt of isopropanol. The alcohol may be a mixture of one or more of methanol n butanol and isopropanol. The dispersion may be formed via sonication.

The dispersion may then be applied or deposited onto a surface to form a coating on the surface. The coating may then be dried to evaporate the solvent.

The HSQ may have the formula RSiO wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen an alkyl an alkylene an aryl an arylene an organo functional derivative of an alkyl group an organo functional derivative of an alkylene group an organo functional derivative of an aryl group and an organo functional derivative of an arylene group. The HSQ may be a hydrogen silsequioxqane and or methyl silsesquioxane. The ratio of HFS HSQ may be greater than 1.0.

The coating may exhibit an advancing contact angle of at least 150 . The dispersion may be deposited onto a surface via a spray. The coating may exhibit a droplet sliding angle of less than 10 .

The method may further comprise introducing a hydrophilic area to the hydrophobic composition wherein an area of the hydrophobic coating is subjected to heat which may be localized. The heat will decrease the hydrophobicity of the area subjected to the heat. The area subjected to the heat will have an advancing contact angle of equal to or less than 10 . The area subjected to the heat will have an advancing contact angle of equal to or less than 5 . The area subjected to the heat will have an advancing contact angle of 0 . The heat applied to the hydrophobic coating may be between 500 C. and 800 C. The heat may be applied via a COlaser or a propane flame. The area may be subjected to a temperature of greater than 300 C. for greater than 45 minutes. The surface may be a material such as steel aluminum copper quartz glass fabric silicon or a combination thereof.

Provided herein is a hydrophobic and hydrophilic composition made by forming a dispersion of a hydrophobic silsesquioxane HSQ and a hydrophobic fumed silica HFS in a solvent as described herein. The dispersion may be deposited onto a surface to form a coating on the surface. The coating may then be dried to evaporate the solvent. The hydrophilic area may be formed on the hydrophobic composition as described herein. The application of heat will decrease the hydrophobicity of the area subjected to the heat.

The inventors have made the surprising discovery that a simple wet processing thermal treatment method may be used to produce surfaces patterned with binary hydrophobic hydrophilic regions. The hydrophobic hydrophilic regions may be superhydrophobic superhydrophilic regions. The method centers on the production of an inherently superhydrophobic polysilsesquioxane silica composite coating. The composition coating may be subjected to localized thermal treatment. For example when laser processed the coatings are patternable down to O 10 m scales. Several micropatterned wettability surfaces demonstrate their usefulness in pool boiling heat transfer enhancement capillarity driven liquid transport in open surface tension confined channels e.g. lab on a chip and surface coating applications that rely on wettability gradients.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

For the recitation of numeric ranges herein each intervening number there between with the same degree of precision is explicitly contemplated. For example for the range of 6 9 the numbers 7 and 8 are contemplated in addition to 6 and 9 and for the range 6.0 7.0 the number 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.8 6.9 and 7.0 are explicitly contemplated.

Provided herein is a method of preparing a hydrophobic coating. The method comprises forming a dispersion of a hydrophobic silsesquioxane HSQ family of compounds and a hydrophobic fumed silica HFS . The HSQ and HFS may be dispersed in a solvent such as an alcohol. The dispersion may then be applied to a surface such as a solid surface. Once applied the dispersion may form a coating on the surface which is then dried so as to remove the solvent from the coating.

The dispersion may be a two phase system where one phase contains discrete particles of HSQ and HFS distributed throughout the solvent. The particles constitute the dispersed or internal phase and the solvent the continuous or external phase. At least a portion of the HSQ and or HFS may exist as the discrete particle. Dispersions are possible through the use of certain components that are insoluble in the solvent system. It is desirable that the dispersion remains stable under ambient conditions. Preferred dispersions are stable at room temperature for more than 30 days preferably more than 90 days more preferably for more than 180 days and most preferably for more than 360 days.

The dispersion may be formed by combining in any order HFS HSQ and the solvent. Any of the resultant compositions may be sonicated to produce the dispersion. For example HFS and solvent may be combined and sonicated to form a suspension. Once the suspension is formed the HSQ may be added to it. The entire suspension may then be sonicated to stabilize the suspension and form the dispersion. Alternatively for example the HFS HSQ and the solvent may be mixed and then sonicated to form the dispersion. Any sonication method may be used such as bath or probe sonication. Dispersions may be formed by combining HFS MSQ and the solvent under mechanical mixing at ambient conditions.

The dispersion may comprise from 3 wt to 3.5 wt of HSQ. The dispersion may comprise from 15 wt to 18 wt of 20 HSQ in a solvent such as alcohol. The dispersion may comprise from 16 wt to 17 wt of 20 HSQ in alcohol. The dispersion may comprise 16.0 wt 16.1 wt 16.2 wt 16.3 wt 16.4 wt 16.5 wt 16.6 wt 16.7 wt 16.8 wt 16.9 wt or 17.0 wt of 20 HSQ in alcohol.

The dispersion may comprise from 0.0 wt to 9.0 wt of HFS. The dispersion may comprise from 0.0 wt to 8.3 wt of HFS. The dispersion may comprise from 0.5 wt to 8.0 wt of HFS. The dispersion may comprise from 1.0 wt to 8.5 wt from 2.0 wt to 7.5 wt from 3.0 wt to 6.5 wt from 4.0 wt to 5.5 wt or from 4.5 wt to 5.0 wt of HFS.

The ratio of HFS HSQ may be greater than 1.0. The ratio of HFS HSQ may be greater than 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 or 2.0 for example. The ratio of HFS HSQ may be from 1.0 to 4.5 from 1.0 to 4.0 from 1.0 to 3.5 from 1.0 to 3.0 from 1.0 to 2.5 from 1.0 to 2.0 or from 1.0 to 1.5 for example.

The dispersion may comprise from 70 wt to 97 wt of alcohol. The dispersion may comprise from 75 wt to 85 wt from 70 wt to 80 wt from 78 wt to 82 wt or from 74 wt to 84 wt of alcohol. The dispersion may comprise from 75.0 wt to 83.3 wt of alcohol.

The HSQ may be any compound having the following structure RSiO wherein R may be a hydrogen an alkyl an alkylene an aryl an arylene an organo functional derivative of an alkyl group an organo functional derivative of an alkylene group an organo functional derivative of an aryl group or an organo functional derivative of an arylene group. For example the HSQ may have a structure as shown below a f wherein T refers to the number of Si atoms in the structure 

The HFS may be any silica made hydrophobic hydrophobized . The silica may be synthetic silica. The silica may be hydrophobized with a silicium organo compound such as a silane a silazane or a siloxane. The silica may be hydrophobized by being coated with a wax by esterifying the silanol groups with long chain fatty alcohols and or by linking the silanol groups with one or more polyamines. The HFS compound may be purchased from Evonik Industries under the product names Aerosil Aerosil R 972 Aerosil R 974 Aerosil R 805 Aerosil R 812 trimethylsilyl functionalized and Aerosil R 812 S . The HFS may or may not be in a solvent.

The solvent may be any alcohol. The alcohol may be one or more of a monohydric alcohol an unsaturated aliphatic alcohol a polyhydric alcohol and or an alicyclic alcohol for example. The monohydric alcohol may be methanol ethanol isopropyl alcohol butyl alcohol pentanol and or hexadecane 1 ol for example. The polyhydric alcohol may be one or more of ethane 1 2 diol propane 1 2 diol propane 1 2 3 triol butane 1 2 3 4 tetraol pentane 1 2 3 4 5 pentol hexane 1 2 3 4 5 6 hexyl and heptane 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 heptol for example. The unsaturated aliphatic alcohol may be one or more of prop 2 ene 1 ol 3 7 dimethylocta 2 6 dien 1 ol and prop 2 in 1 ol for example. The alicyclic alcohol may be one or more of cyclohexane 1 2 3 4 5 6 hexyl and 2 2 propyl 5 methyl cyclohexane 1 ol for example.

The dispersion may be deposited or applied to a surface. The dispersion may be applied to any surface that can withstand heat treatment during the formation of regions or patterns or etchings of hydrophilic nature on the dried deposition. Such a surface may be steel aluminum copper quartz glass fabric and or silicon. The deposition may be performed at standard temperature and pressure except for various specified heating steps which may or may not include drying of the coating. The method of deposition may be an aerosol assisted method dip coating and or spin coating. The aerosol assisted method may be spray deposition or spray casting. The spray casting may be accomplished with an atomizer for example. A single layer can be deposited on a substrate or multiple layers could be applied. In general deposition of the one or more layers can be performed by any suitable evaporative coating operation such as dip coating or drainage spin coating Mayer rod coating slot coating and other liquid to solid coating operations for example.

The coating may be dried. The purpose of drying is to remove the solvent from the coating. Once the solvent is removed the drying step may be complete. The drying may be accomplished by any suitable method for drying including for example letting the coating dry at ambient temperature for a period of time drying the coating in an oven and or treating the coating with heat from a heat gun. The coating may be subjected to drying temperatures of from 20 C. to 140 C. from 25 C. to 130 C. from 30 C. to 120 C. from 40 C. to 110 C. from 50 C. to 100 C. from 60 C. to 90 C. from 70 C. to 80 C. for example. The coating may be subjected to a temperature of from 120 C. to 140 C. The coating may be subjected to heat only for a period of time needed to remove the solvent from the coating. For example the coating may be dried for 5 minutes to 10 hours from 30 minutes to 9 hours from 1 hour to 8 hours from 2 hours to 7 hours from 3 hours to 6 hours or from 4 hours to 5 hours for example. The drying time may depend on the method of drying. The coating may be dried at 130 C. for 1 hour.

The hydrophobic coating may be treated to form regions or patterns or etchings of hydrophilic nature. The coating may be treated locally to form the regions or patterns or etchings of hydrophilic nature. For the purpose of introducing this wettability transition heat is applied to the coating. The heat may take on any form. The form of heat may be laser or flame for example. The laser may be a COlaser. The coating may be exposed to COtreatment for a time on the order of milliseconds. The coating may be exposed to COlaser treatment for between 1 millisecond and 1 second for example.

The flame may be a propane or other hydrocarbon flame. The coating may be exposed to an open flame. The open flame may be from a standard torch. The flame may impinge on the surface of the coating. The coating may be exposed to the flame for 1 second to 5 minutes or 1 second to 1 minute for example. The coating may be exposed to the flame for several seconds. This application of heat will locally decrease the hydrophobicity of the area subjected to the heat. The application of the heat may vary in intensity and duration. The decrease in hydrophobicity may depend on the intensity and duration of the heat.

The laser may be set to low medium or high power setting. Wettability transitions may be realized faster if the laser beam power is increased. The laser fluence may be greater than 130 J cm greater than 135 J cm greater than 140 J cm greater than 145 J cm or greater than 150 J cm for example. The laser fluence may be from 130 J cmto 250 J cm from 135 J cmto 230 J cm from 140 J cmto 220 J cm from 145 J cmto 200 J cm or from 150 J cmto 175 J cm for example.

The laser may have a beam power of from 0.2 W to 2 W of from 0.5 W to 2 W of from 0.8 W to 2 W of from 1 W to 2 W of from 1.5 W to 2.0 W of from 0.8 W to 1.2 W of from 0.9 W to 1.1 W of from 0.7 W to 1.3 W or from of from 0.6 W to 1.4 W. The laser may have a beam power of about 1 W. The laser may have a beam power of up to 20 W for example. Accordingly the laser may have a beam power of from 0.2 W to 20 W. A higher beam power may result in faster laser translation speeds. For example a 20 W beam power may result in a laser translation speed of about 0.3 m s.

The laser may have a beam diameter of from 25 nm to 100 nm of from 50 nm to 100 nm of from 75 nm to 100 nm of from 25 nm to 30 nm of from 25 nm to 28 nm or of from 25 nm to 50 nm. The laser may have a beam diameter of 25 nm.

The laser may have a translation speed of from 0.5 cm sto 4.0 cm s of from 1.5 cm sto 3.0 cm s of from 2.5 cm sto 4.0 cm s of from 1.0 cm sto 3.0 cm s of from 2.0 cm sto 3.0 cm s of from 2.2 cm sto 2.7 cm s or of from 2.3 cm sto 2.6 cm s. The laser may have a translation speed of 2.5 cm s. The laser may have a translation speed of from 0.5 cm s to 0.3 m s from 1.0 cm s to 0.3 m s or from 2.0 cm s to 0.3 m s.

The laser irradiance may be calculated as 0.2 MW cm. The laser irradiance may be calculated as from 0.1 MW cmto 0.3 MW cm for example.

The heat applied to the coating to form hydrophilic regions may locally heat the coating to temperatures above 500 C. The heat applied to the coating to form hydrophilic regions may locally heat the coating to temperatures in the range of from 500 C. to 1250 C. from 550 C. to 1100 C. or from 600 C. to 900 C. for example. The heat may be applied only for so long as to produce a hydrophilic area having an advancing contact angle of equal to or less than 10 . The resultant advancing contact angle may be equal to or less than 9 equal to or less than 8 equal to or less than 7 equal to or less than 6 equal to or less than 5 equal to or less than 4 equal to or less than 3 equal to or less than 2 or equal to or less than 1 .

The heat may be applied only for so long as to produce a hydrophilic area having a contact angle hysteresis of equal to or less than 15 . The resultant contact angle hysteresis may be equal to or less than 14 may be equal to or less than 13 may be equal to or less than 12 may be equal to or less than 11 may be equal to or less than 10 may be equal to or less than 9 equal to or less than 8 equal to or less than 7 equal to or less than 6 equal to or less than 5 equal to or less than 4 equal to or less than 3 equal to or less than 2 or equal to or less than 1 .

Compositions or articles comprising the hydrophobic or binary coatings are provided herein. The compositions may be for example components for dehumidifiers components for condensation apparatuses components for distillation apparatuses components for boiling applications bio medical and microfluidic devices protective layers for semiconductors anti corrosion coatings films on windows home appliances roofs greenhouses sun rooms swimming pool enclosures and the like. The compositions are of particular utility in the manufacture of pipes such as heat exchanger pipes for example.

Directed motion of droplets may be useful in the creation of container less surface tension confined fluidic devices that are non fouling easy to clean and allow transport of highly concentrated fluids with no loss to the walls. Concentrated fluid samples will overcome a major current obstacle in dielectrophoretic DE separations. The ability to coalesce drops also can provide the means to perform highly controlled reactions upstream of the fluidic analysis and has implications also for flow cytometry.

The herein described dispersions may be useful as compositions to be applied to any surface than can withstand the heat treatment step. For example the dispersion may be useful for any of the above described applications.

The purpose of introducing hydrophobic inorganic nanoparticles into the spray dispersion is to affect the coating surface texture resulting after application and drying a well established approach for achieving superhydrophobicity. illustrates the characteristic micro cluster surface morphology of a MSQ HFS coating 1.0 HFS MSQ mass ratio applied by spray while the higher magnification image in displays the resulting nanotexture due to HFS particles embedded in the MSQ matrix. Such hierarchical surface texture is known to produce superhydrophobicity on both artificial and natural surfaces. presents the advancing and receding contact angles as functions of HFS concentration in the MSQ matrix. Contact angle hysteresis initially increases with HFS filler content i.e. surface roughness followed by an abrupt decrease as the HFS concentration increases further indicating a wetting state transition i.e. Wenzel to Cassie Baxter . Beyond a 1.0 HFS MSQ mass ratio the coating becomes superhydrophobic i.e. 150 . The Cassie Baxter non wetting state should be realized if the true Young s contact angle satisfies the condition

To delineate the effects of HFS filler content which affects texture and thermal treatment which affects surface energy presents apparent advancing contact angles for spray cast MSQ HFS composite films vs. of spin coated MSQ before and after flame treatment. The values of for spin coated MSQ before and after flame treatment were measured to be 95 and 23 respectively. Two HFS MSQ mass ratios 0.25 and 1.5 are represented in . Also plotted in the same figure are the lines for two theoretical cases namely Cassie Baxter Eq. 4 below with 0.04 and Wenzel Eq. 5 below with r 1.48 . For the Cassie Baxter case the apparent contact angle is given by cos 1 cos 1 4 while for the Wenzel case cos cos 5 

As stated previously for the heat treated wettable MSQ 23 . Taking as a conservative approximation of and substituting into Eq. 3 we see that the lower threshold value of r for the validity of Eq. 3 comes as r 1 cos 1.1 which is an easily attainable roughness ratio. It is possible to quantify the roughness ratio of the coating prior to flame treatment by utilizing Eq. 5 the only requirement is that the liquid droplet be in a Wenzel wetting state. At 0.25 HFS MSQ mass ratio the measured value is relatively small 97 see and the hysteresis is high 30 which are characteristic traits of droplets in a partially wetting Wenzel state thus allowing use of Eq. 5 to quantify r note that this particular point falls in the hydrophobic regime of and is prior to coating flame treatment . The dashed line Wenzel fit with r 1.48 shows that the 0.25 HFS MSQ mass ratio coating is consistent with a roughness value sufficiently higher than the threshold value of 1.1 thus allowing the most stable wetting state after flame treatment to be superhydrophilic assuming negligible morphological changes due to flame treatment . Intuitively this corresponds to a MSQ HFS film that is sufficiently wettable i.e. possesses high surface energy to require only a low level of roughness for superhydrophilicity to be energetically favored. Also in the data point for untreated 1.5 HFS MSQ mass ratio coating resides in the lower left quadrant suggesting that the water droplet is in a stable Cassie Baxter wetting state and not a metastable one metastable states generally reside in the lower right quadrant of . Thus this point can be fitted with the Cassie Baxter curve 0.04 suggesting a very low fraction of the textured solid being in contact with the beaded liquid.

While local gas temperatures in propane flames can rise to 2200 K small propane flames impinging onto coated bulk surfaces for 1 2 seconds are not capable of raising coating temperatures up to the melting point of silica 1900 K . Consequently during flame treatment the coating temperatures stay well below this critical value thus eliminating the possibility of significant morphological changes in the coating texture. See for SEM images of a flame treated MSQ HFS coating.

COlasers offer a controlled approach to thermal treatment due to their ability to deliver high levels of energy to localized surface areas. Since most materials are opaque at 10 m laser wavelength COlasers offer a robust approach to surface heat treatment. Heating can be regulated by tuning beam size and energy as well as beam exposure. quantifies the effect of laser treatment on wettability of pure MSQ and MSQ HFS films as a function of laser exposure. For these tests laser power was held constant at 1 W and the laser translation speed was varied. For sufficiently high fluence i.e. 150 J cm the films underwent a wettability transition to complete wetting as indicated by the very low values of in and as previously observed for the flame treated films cf. . It is instructive to compare the temperature ranges attained in both thermal treatment processes. In the case of propane flames the flame temperature is 2 200 K. For laser treatment direct temperature measurement is difficult due to the low exposure time to the laser beam. For a laser spot diameter d of 25 m and a translation speed of 2.0 cm s the speed used for all subsequent laser treatments the exposure time scales like d 1 ms. The corresponding rise in surface temperature T can be estimated using an expression applicable for a semi infinite solid medium heated on a spot

After only t 0.022 ms T 2 000 K a temperature that is comparable with the propane flame temperature. So while this temperature is sufficient to explain wettability transition as a result of laser treatment it is insufficient to explain morphological changes. At t 0.025 ms T becomes 2 230 K which is sufficient to cause silica boiling. Significant removal of coating material should be expected as thermal treatment extends far further than the time required to reach temperatures required for wetting transitions potentially resulting in channel formation for a single laser pass or a thinner coating for total surface treatment the latter being advantageous for heat transfer applications where the thermal resistance associated with thicker coating treatments must be minimized.

It is important to establish the minimum spatial feature size during COlaser processing. The diameter of the focused laser spot is defined as

Laser treated areas appear visually different than non treated areas. As shown before laser processing removes the top portion of the coating. The resulting surface is a thin glassy coating devoid of the micro features originating from spray application and appears more optically transparent see . For heat transfer applications a thin coating or surface treatment is desirable as minimal thermal resistance is required. For pool boiling applications it has been recently reported that selective patterned areas of hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity on surfaces improves heat transfer characteristics i.e. heat transfer coefficient critical heat flux . The demonstrated feature sizes were in the 100 m range with either hydrophobic or hydrophilic networks. show laser patterning of similar 100 m repeatable feature sizes of either hydrophobic or hydrophilic nature while c shows what happens when the patterned surface shown in is subjected to nucleate boiling conditions the hydrophobic islands act as preferred nucleation sites for boiling in line with previously reported results.

An important property of these MSQ HFS films is their ability to maintain extreme wetting properties during and after heating. Determination of the temperature at which these surfaces change wettability is important. presents water droplet sliding angle measurements as a function of temperature treatment of the coating on a hot plate for one hour. At treatment temperatures below 300 C. the sliding angles are well below 10 indicating self cleaning ability for these coatings. For treatment above 300 C. the coating begins to undergo a change in its superhydrophobic property. After treatment at 500 C. the coating ceases to display droplet sliding behavior with the water droplets remaining pinned indicating a full loss of superhydrophobicity and the Cassie Baxter wetting state and marking a temperature limit for the application of this coating. The ability to maintain superhydrophobic behavior even after thermal treatment at 300 C. i.e. no degradation no melting etc. puts this composite coating in class with some of the high performance thermoplastics which have melting points above 300 C. e.g. poly ether ether ketone .

In order to further explore the thermal properties of the MSQ and HFS coating ingredients presents two separate TGA plots one for HFS a and the other for pure MSQ b . In the case of HFS tested under nitrogen atmosphere conditions no significant mass loss was detected while under oxidative conditions of artificial air 80 N 20 O a 2.3 wt. mass loss was detected between 530 630 C. It is suggested that this mass loss is attributed to oxidation of alkyl groups in the HFS which results in formation of oxygen containing functional groups and evolution of volatile CO COand HO. According to the manufacturer the concentration of carbon in the HFS as induced by the wettability modification of silica is in the range of 0.7 1.3 wt . This is quite close to the TGA mass loss 2.6 wt seen in the oxidizing atmosphere and thus carbon presence in the HFS could be responsible for this mass reduction. HFS becomes dispersible in water after thermal treatment at 900 C. in artificial air see inset image in vial 3 and retains its white color i.e. no pyrolysis supporting alkyl group oxidation as the probable mass loss mechanism. For MSQ in the TGA shows three significant mass losses at 159 C. 377 C. and 719 C. for oxidizing conditions artificial air and at 154 C. 406 C. and 771 C. for inert conditions nitrogen . Regarding the first mass loss 159 C. the coating remains self cleaning after thermal treatment at 200 C. see so this mass loss is irrelevant in the context of superhydrophobicity. A previous study attributed such mass loss to condensation of silanol groups and loss of siloxane. For the mass loss of MSQ at medium temperature 300 500 C. this is the temperature range where loss of superhydrophobicity is observed. The effect of mass loss on wettability at 400 C. is unclear but the associated loss of superhydrophobicity there may be due to MSQ melting which affects surface texture a major factor in superhydrophobicity more than it is due to chemical changes and mass loss of MSQ. At 500 C. the coating begins to undergo a color change from its original white to black and chemical changes begin to play a prominent role. Heating MSQ in air or Oabove 600 C. results primarily in the formation of SiO which is used for production of silica glasses. In the case of flame or laser treatment in open air one can expect more extreme thermal treatment than that delivered by TGA testing transformation of hydrophobic methyl groups to hydrophilic OH groups can thus be expected.

High resolution XPS analysis of silicon oxygen and carbon was done on untreated flame treated and laser treated MSQ HFS 1.0 HFS MSQ mass ratio coatings. This analysis supported the TGA data in turn suggesting increased concentration of Si O bonding and reduced concentration of Si R bonding i.e. methyl with heating both consistent with the observed increased silica concentration and decreased hydrophobicity .

The durability of the laser treated MSQ HFS coatings to thermal stresses was verified by dispensing repeatedly 30 cycles mm sized water droplets on them at temperatures up to 150 C. and examining their wetting behavior afterwards. .

The materials used were isopropanol IPA Sigma Aldrich USA methylsilsesquioxane resin Gelest Inc. 19 21 wt. in a mixture of methanol n butanol and isopropanol and hydrophobic fumed silica Aerosil silane or siloxane modified silica .

In a 20 mL glass vial hydrophobic fumed silica and IPA were combined and probe sonicated Sonics 750 W High Intensity Ultrasonic Processor 13 mm diameter tip at 30 amplitude to form a suspension. Once a stable HFS IPA suspension was formed the MSQ solution in alcohol was added and the entire dispersion was sonicated until a stable dispersion formed. Typical sonication procedures lasted 1 2 min under ambient conditions longer sonication times resulted in undesirable boiling loss of the alcohol solvents. Stable dispersions Table 1 were then spray cast with an airbrush atomizer Paasche VLS siphon feed 0.73 mm nozzle onto stainless steel aluminum foil copper quartz and glass slide substrates at a spray distance of 10 cm and were subsequently heated with a heat gun Proheat Varitemp PH 1200 1300 W max to immediately remove solvents and an oven at 130 C. for 1 hr to allow the coating to dry. Alternatively thermal treatment for the purposes of inducing a wettability transition was done with either a propane flame or a COlaser 100 W max 25 m spot size mounted on a computer controlled 3 axis stage output power is controlled by a percentage of maximum power i.e. 1.0 power corresponds to 1 W . For some samples laser patterning was used to form repeating islands of either hydrophobic or hydrophilic nature.

Environmental scanning electron microscope ESEM Philips XL30 ESEM FEG and scanning electron microscope SEM Hitachi S 3000N variable pressure images were obtained after samples were sputter coated with a conformal 5 nm thick layer of Au Pd or Pt Pd. X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS Kratos AXIS 165 was performed on heat gun treated flame treated and laser treated MSQ HFS coatings deposited on stainless steel to investigate the effect of thermal treatment on the surface chemistry of the coating. Thermogravimetric analysis TGA was performed to determine degradation temperatures and reveal the related mechanisms. Sessile advancing and receding contact angle values were obtained with a backlit optical high speed image acquisition setup Redlake MotionPro utilizing 10 L water droplets. Coating heat treatment for the purposes of analyzing the effect of temperature on wettability was done with a standard hot plate. Each sample was kept at a constant elevated temperature for 1 hr e.g. 200 C. 300 C. etc. and then was removed and allowed to cool down to ambient temperature. Each sample was subsequently characterized by sliding angle measurements with 5.0 L water droplets on a tilting stage with 1 accuracy.

