---

title: System for managing home appliances and push service method thereof
abstract: A system for managing home appliances can provide a push service with respect to status information of a home appliance. Further, push service can be stably implemented using a response message to a push message. This can allow home appliances to be managed efficiently.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374424&OS=09374424&RS=09374424
owner: LG ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09374424
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130916
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a this application claims the benefit of earlier filing date and right of priority to Korean Application No. 10 2012 0104729 filed on Sep. 20 2012 the contents of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to home appliances and a system for managing the same and particularly to a system for managing home appliances using a network.

Electric appliances arranged at home hereinafter will be referred to as home appliances e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine an air conditioner and etc. perform their own functions thereby providing a user s convenience. In recent years the home appliances form a home network and a user can control the home appliances from a remote place through the home network. Under such configuration the home appliances can be turned on off even when a user is not at home. However such control of the home appliances through the home network is limited to the own functions of the home appliances.

A device management technique means a technique to provide functions such as a user custom setting remote management and update with respect to various types of home appliances. The device management technique may be used for the purpose of manufacturing a product initially setting a product after purchase updating with respect to errors remotely controlling a product and etc.

As an application program in the mobile communication field and a standardization technique with respect to the service field techniques defined in Open Mobile Alliance OMA are being used. Such OMA deals with mobile web web browsing Digital Rights Management DRM solution Internet Protocol IP multimedia device management mobile broadcast mobile related document standardization and etc. in order to accelerate an interoperability of mobile data service. Especially according to standardization with respect to a device management technique in the OMA update of firmware software download new service error correction and etc. are performed in a wireless manner.

Therefore an aspect of the detailed description is to provide a system for managing home appliances capable of providing a push service with respect to information on for example a preset status of a home appliance.

Another aspect of the detailed description is to provide a system for managing home appliances capable of stably executing a push service using a response message to a push message and a push service method thereof.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of this specification as embodied and broadly described herein there is provided a system for managing home appliances comprising one or more home appliances which generate status information and an appliance management device configured to generate a push message corresponding to at elast one status information among the status information and to transmit the push message to an external terminal device.

The appliance management device may repeatedly transmit the push message a prescribed number of times if a response message to the push message has not been received within a prescribed time.

The appliance management device may comprise a management portal configured to register the home appliance by receiving device information and registration information on the home appliance and configured to generate the push message.

The appliance management device may further comprise an appliance management server configured to receive a management command with respect to the home appliance from the terminal device and configured to manage the home appliance based on the management command.

The system for managing home appliances may further comprise a push server provided with the registration information and terminal information on the terminal device the push server configured to transmit the push message to the terminal device.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for managing home appliances comprising one or more home appliances which generate status information a terminal device having an application program with respect to the home appliance and configured to manage the home appliance using the application program and an appliance management device configured to generate a push message corresponding to preset status information among the status information configured to transmit the push message to the terminal device and configured to monitor whether the terminal device has normally received the push message.

After receiving the push message the terminal device may execute the application program and transmit a management command. Alternatively after receiving the push message the terminal device may execute a manipulation command included in the push message without executing the application program.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of this specification as embodied and broadly described herein there is also provided a push service method of a system for managing home appliances the method comprising receiving device information and registration information on a home appliance and registering the home appliance receiving status information from the registered home appliance determining whether the status information is specific status information generating a push message based on the status information if the status information is specific status information as a result of the determination transmitting the push message to a registered terminal device and determining whether the terminal device has normally received the push message.

In the step of determining whether the terminal device has normally received the push message if a response message to the push message is transmitted within a prescribed time it may be determined that the terminal device has normally received the push message.

Firstly as home appliances are registered to the management system for management service a user can easily monitor or control the home appliances from a remote place.

Secondly the appliance management device can provide a push service with respect to for example specific status information of a home appliance such as START END and ERROR. This can enhance a user s convenience system stability and system operating efficiency.

Thirdly push service can be stably implemented using a response message to a push message. This can enhance system stability and service stability.

Fourthly even when the terminal device does not execute an appliance management application specific status information can be provided to the terminal device using a push service. This can allow home appliances to be efficiently managed and allow a user to easily manage the home appliances.

Further scope of applicability of the present application will become more apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However it should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the disclosure are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the detailed description.

Description will now be given in detail of the exemplary embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings. For the sake of brief description with reference to the drawings the same or equivalent components will be provided with the same reference numbers and description thereof will not be repeated.

Referring to a system for managing home appliances according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises one or more home appliances and an appliance management device . The appliance management device comprises an appliance management server and a management portal . The system for managing home appliances may further comprise a terminal device and an operating device .

The home appliance is provided with a display screen on which information can be inputted and outputted. The appliance management server is connected to the home appliance through a communication network between the appliance management server and the terminal device and manages the home appliance according to a management command. The home appliance generates a purchase list according to a designation command with respect to one or more products and displays the purchase list on the display screen. The home appliance may display on the display screen an accessible purchase site together with the purchase list. Then the home appliance may request for purchase of a corresponding product using the purchase site.

The home appliance comprises a refrigerator a washing machine an air conditioner a cooker a cleaner and etc. as an object to be managed. The home appliance of the present invention may further comprise other devices such as communication devices. The home appliance may comprise a hardware for performing functions of the home appliance i.e. a home appliance module. And the home appliance may be a smart home appliance for utilizing the home appliance module in various manners.

The appliance management server is a device for executing a management service with respect to the home appliance . The appliance management server comprises components configured to request for execution of a management command from the home appliance and to receive an execution result of the management command and to provide the execution result to a user.

The management portal is a device for providing subscription and support service to a user of the home appliance . The management portal comprises a function to manage an appliance user and a function to execute authentication of a home appliance. The management portal may be a device a server or a service system operated by a manufacturer of the home appliance or a seller of the home appliance .

The operating device is used to allow access to a service provided from the management portal . For instance the operating device may be a personal computer having a network function and provided with a user interface. The operating device may be also used to manage information on the home appliance or information of a user.

The terminal device is used to allow access to a management service with respect to the home appliance the management service provided from the appliance management server . The terminal device may use a management service through an Application Programming Interface API module provided from the appliance management server . The terminal device is any electronic device which can use a management service with respect to the home appliance including a Device Management DM client by accessing the appliance management server . For instance the terminal device may comprise a portable phone a cellular phone a smart phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a tablet device a computer a multimedia device and etc.

Referring to the home appliance comprises an input unit a communication unit a controller and an output unit . The home appliance may further comprise a memory .

The communication unit is a communication module for transceiving transmitting and receiving with the appliance management server a control message for execution of a management command data required to perform a management command a result on execution of a management command and etc. The communication unit may comprise a wireless or wired communication module for performing communication with the appliance management server . Especially the wireless communication module is a module for performing communication with a short range device which may be a module for supporting a short range communication technology such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID Infra Red Data Association IrDA Ultra Wideband UWB ZigBee Wireless LAN Bluetooth 802.11n and etc. .

The input unit and the output unit serve as a passage connected to a hardware of a home appliance e.g. home appliance module which correspond to a user interface. The input unit and the output unit operate so that a control signal and status information according to a management command can be transceived transmitted and received . The home appliance performs its own function e.g. a washing function a cooking function a cleaning function or a storage function according to a control command and a management command inputted through the input unit . The controller may control a hardware of the home appliance using a pre stored application program under control of a command input through the input unit . Then the controller may display a result thereof to the output unit .

The memory may store therein a program for operating the controller and may temporarily store therein input data and output data. The memory may also store therein various software components. More specifically the memory may store therein an Operating System OS applications and a management platform. Alternatively the memory may store therein software components including a module which operates together with the communication unit and a module which operates together with the input unit and the output unit .

The memory may comprise at least one storage medium of a Random Access Memory RAM a Static Random Access Memory SRAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM a magnetic memory a magnetic disk an optical disk a flash memory type a hard disk type a multimedia card micro type a card type memory e.g. Secure Digital SD memory XD memory and etc. . The memory may be a network storage connected through the communication unit or may be a region provided by a cloud service and etc.

The operating system OS e.g. LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS Chrome Symbian WinCE Windows Mobile iOS Android Bada VxWorks pSOS or other embedded operating system may comprise various software components and or drivers for controlling system tasks such as memory management and power management. The operating system may be changed through a firmware update procedure. The firmware update procedure may be performed based on a management command transmitted to a DM client from the terminal device through a DM server inside the appliance management server. The management command for firmware update may be a command requesting for execution of an upgrade function.

The application program a program executed on an operating system comprise a program for an own function of a home appliance. More specifically the controller controls a home appliance or a module provided in the home appliance by executing the application program.

As an example in a case where the home appliance is a washing machine in which a hardware of a washing function is mounted a control signal and a status collection signal are inputted through the input unit the signals for managing a component of the washing machine such as a washing drum control unit a washing water supply unit a sensor unit a detergent control unit a vibration control unit or a horizontal status control unit. In this case the control signal for managing a component of the washing machine is based on an application program instructing a washing method and etc. according to a washing course. The washing course indicates a washing process a rinsing process a dehydration process an order a time duration a number of times and etc. based on information of a washing laundry such as a cloth.

As another example in a case where the home appliance is a refrigerator in which a hardware of a storage function is mounted a control signal and a status collection signal are inputted through the input unit the signals for managing a component of the refrigerator such as a cooling unit a temperature control unit a sensor unit or a power control unit. In this case the control signal for managing a component of the refrigerator is based on an application program instructing a storage method and etc. according to a storage mode a maturation mode or a keeping mode.

The application program may be changed through a software update procedure. The software update procedure may be performed based on a management command transmitted to the DM client from the terminal device through the DM server. The management command for software update may be a command requesting for execution of an upgrade function.

The management platform a management program executed in an operating system may comprise a DM client. The DM client transmits or receives a management message for managing the home appliance to from the DM server inside the appliance management server. Management functions executed by the DM client are with respect to a module mounted in the home appliance . For instance the management functions include monitoring diagnosis upgrade remote control and etc.

The management platform may include a DM daemon. The DM daemon may receive a notification message for the DM client the notification message transmitted through a notification server inside the home appliance. Also the DM daemon may perform a function to process an exceptional item of the DM client.

The management platform may include a service agent. The service agent is used by the DM client when controlling a hardware inside the home appliance based on a management command or when controlling a hardware by executing a controller application program. The controller controls components of the home appliance. That is the controller controls the input unit the communication unit the output unit the memory the hardware and etc. The controller may be configured to execute software components stored in the memory . The controller may control a home appliance module based on an application program. The controller may execute or update an application program in order to perform a management command received from the appliance management server .

Referring to the appliance management server comprises at least one of an Application Programming Interface API server a connection server a download DL server a device management DM server and a notification server .

The API server is an interface module for providing a device management service to an external terminal of the appliance management server or an application program. More specifically the API server may include at least one of an interface function for checking whether a terminal to access a device management service or an application program has been allowed an interface function for remote diagnosis of the home appliance an interface function for control of an application program of the home appliance and an interface function for control of a module of the home appliance .

The connection server may transmit to the home appliance a management command request message received from an external terminal of the appliance management server . Then the connection server may transmit to the appliance management server a result on execution of a management command by the home appliance message transfer function .

The DL server may transfer downloaded data to the home appliance . The DL server may be a module for transferring downloaded data according to an OMA download standard.

The DM server may request for execution of a management command by transceiving a control message with the DM client which manages a device inside the home appliance . Then the DM server may receive an execution result on a management command. The DM server may transceive messages for a management command according to an OMA DM standard.

The notification server may perform a notification function to transceive a notification message for appliance management with the home appliance . The notification server may perform message exchange between the home appliance and the DM server in a push manner.

The storage unit may store therein a program for operating the controller or may temporarily store therein input data and output data. Especially the storage unit may store therein modules for transferring an execution request with respect to a management command received from the terminal device and for receiving an execution result on the management command from the home appliance . More specifically the storage unit may comprise at least one of an Application Programming Interface API module a connection module a download module a device management module and a notification module.

The controller controls components of the appliance management server . That is the controller controls the communication unit and the storage unit. The controller may be configured to execute modules stored in the storage unit.

Hereinafter a method for managing home appliances by the system for managing home appliances according to an embodiment of the present invention will be explained with reference to . is a flowchart schematically illustrating a method for the terminal device to transmit a management command to the home appliance through the appliance management server and to receive an execution result.

The terminal device transmits a management command request signal to the appliance management server according to a user s input. The appliance management server having received the management command request signal determines a type of a management command included in the management command request signal. Then the appliance management server determines a method to instruct a management command based on a determination result. The appliance management server instructs the home appliance to perform a management command according to the determined instruction method. Also the appliance management server transmits an execution result of the management command to the terminal device if necessary.

Firstly the appliance management server checks whether the terminal device is a proper device to request for a management command with respect to the home appliance S . More specifically the terminal device transmits a login request message to the appliance management server S .

The login request message may include information on authentication of application programs for managing the terminal device or a device executed by the terminal device . The appliance management server may provide an application programming interface API type interface for executing a management command with respect to the home appliance based on an application program executed in an external device. The appliance management server authenticates an application program for calling an interface a device or a user in order to call an interface by an authorized allowed application program or device. The login request message may be an authentication message which informs that the home appliance can use an interface.

The appliance management server checks authentication information included in the login request message and transmits a check result on the authentication information. If the terminal device or an application program executed in the terminal device so as to perform device management is allowed to request for a management command from the appliance management server the appliance management server transmits a login response message to the terminal device S .

The login response message may include access information necessary when the terminal device requests for execution of a management command.

The access information may be access information of the appliance management server for receiving a request for a realtime management command. For instance the access information may be an IP address or a Transmission Control Protocol TCP port of the appliance management server .

Next the terminal device requests a management command from the appliance management server and the appliance management server determines a type of the management command. Then the appliance management server requests initialization for executing a management procedure from the home appliance according to a result of the determination S . The appliance management server may be configured to process a management command regardless of a type of the management command.

More specifically the terminal device accesses the appliance management server thereby requesting for execution of a management command S . Then the appliance management server determines a type of the requested management command S .

Types of a management command may be categorized according to a transception scheme of a control message for executing a management command between the appliance management server and the home appliance . For instance a first type of management command indicates a method to request for execution of a management command and to transmit an execution result by transceiving a control message based on an OMA DM standard. In the transception method according to an OMA DM standard connection and release between the appliance management server and the home appliance for transception of a plurality of messages for a management command are performed in a repeated manner. Therefore the first type of management command may correspond to a management command indicating a non realtime characteristic.

A second type of management command indicates a method to request for execution of a management command and to transmit an execution result by transceiving a plurality of data packets through a connection state between the appliance management server and the home appliance i.e. a relay method through a connection oriented session. The second type of management command may correspond to a management command indicating a realtime characteristic.

Whether a management command has a realtime characteristic or not may be determined based on whether there is a need to execute a management command within a prescribed time after the appliance management server or the home appliance has received the management command. The appliance management server may determine a type of a management command based on a type of an API used to request for execution of a management command. As another example the appliance management server may determine a type of a management command based on a characteristic of connection between the terminal device and the appliance management server for request of a management command.

Then the appliance management server performs an initialization procedure for transferring the management command to the home appliance based on a determination result on a type of the management command S .

Then the appliance management server requests the home appliance to execute a management command and transceives a control message for receiving an execution result thereby executing a management procedure according to the management command S . The method to transceive a control message for device management in step S may be variable according to a type of a management command.

Then the appliance management server transmits to the terminal device an execution result on the management procedure S .

Referring to the system for managing home appliances according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises one or more home appliances which generate status information and an appliance management device configured to generate a push message corresponding to specific status information among the status information and to transmit the push message to an external terminal device.

If a response message to the push message is not received within a prescribed time the appliance management device transmits the push message a prescribed number of times in a repeated manner. The prescribed time is a preset time which may be set as several msec 30 seconds 1 minute and etc. The prescribed number of times may be also preset as 3 times 5 times and etc.

The management portal receives device information and registration information on the home appliance to thus register the home appliance and generates a push message. The push message is transmitted or received by an open API. The management portal may include a storage unit and the storage unit may store therein specific status information and a push message corresponding to the specific status information in a patterned manner.

The specific status information is at least one of START END and ERROR of a process of the home appliance . The home appliance is at least one of a washing machine a refrigerator a cooker an air conditioner and a cleaner. In case of a washing machine a notification of TERMINATION OF PROCESS may be performed using a push message after a process such as a washing process a rinsing process and a dehydration process has ended. Alternatively a notification of ERROR may be performed with respect to an error occurring during a process using a push message. In case of a cooker a push message may be generated using specific status information such as a notification of FOOD TURNING a notification of COMPLETION OF COURSE and a notification of ERROR .

As aforementioned the appliance management server receives from the terminal device a management command with respect to the home appliance . Then the appliance management server manages the home appliance based on the management command.

Referring to the system for managing home appliances further comprises a push server provided with registration information and terminal information the push server configured to transmit a push message to the terminal device . The push server may be configured in the appliance management device but is preferably configured as an additional device. In a case where the push server is included in the appliance management device the appliance management device may directly request for a push message to a communication provider . The communication provider may be a server which provides android push notification service such as C2DM Cloud to Device Messaging service GCM Google Cloud Messaging service and apple notification service. That is the communication server is configured to transmit a push message to the terminal device subscribed to the communication provider.

Referring back to a system for managing home appliances according to another embodiment of the present invention comprises one or more home appliances which generate status information a terminal device having an application program with respect to the home appliance and configured to manage the home appliance using the application program and an appliance management device configured to generate a push message corresponding to preset status information among the status information configured to transmit the push message to the terminal device and to monitor whether the terminal device normally receives the push message.

After receiving the push message the terminal device may execute the application program and transmit a management command. Alternatively after receiving the push message the terminal device may execute a manipulation command included in the push message without executing the application program.

If a response message to the push message is not received within a prescribed time the appliance management device transmits the push message a prescribed number of times in a repeated manner. The prescribed time is a preset time which may be set as several msec 30 seconds 1 minute and etc. The prescribed number of times may be also preset as 3 times 5 times and etc.

The appliance management device comprises a management portal configured to register the home appliance by receiving device information and registration information on the home appliance and configured to generate a push message and an appliance management server configured to receive a management command with respect to the home appliance from the terminal device and configured to manage the home appliance based on the management command.

The management portal receives device information and registration information on the home appliance to thus register the home appliance and generates a push message. The push message is transmitted or received by an open API. The management portal may include a storage unit and the storage unit may store therein specific status information and a push message corresponding to the specific status information in a patterned manner.

The appliance management server receives from the terminal device a management command with respect to the home appliance . Then the appliance management server manages the home appliance based on the management command.

The system for managing home appliances may further comprise a push server connected to the management portal provided with registration information and terminal information on the terminal device the push server configured to transmit a push message to the terminal device .

The specific status information is at least one of START END and ERROR of a process of the home appliance . The home appliance is at least one of a washing machine a refrigerator a cooker an air conditioner and a cleaner. In case of a washing machine a notification of TERMINATION OF PROCESS may be performed using a push message after a process such as a washing process a rinsing process and a dehydration process has ended. Alternatively a notification of ERROR may be performed with respect to an error occurring during a process using a push message. In case of a cooker a push message may be generated using specific status information such as a notification of FOOD TURNING a notification of COMPLETION OF COURSE and a notification of ERROR .

The terminal device transceives transmits and receives a management command and an execution result on the management command with the appliance management server using Object Management Architecture Device Management OMA DM or a Transmission Control Protocol TCP .

The terminal device may execute an application program and transmit a management command after receiving the push message. The application program may be an application app installed in the terminal device and may be implemented as an icon on a display screen of the terminal device . Upon execution of an application program the terminal device may transmit a management command e.g. subsequent command according to content of the push message to the appliance management server and may receive an execution result on the management command using OMA DM or TCP.

As shown in in a case where the terminal device has received a push message which reads Error has occurred indicating occurrence of an error at the home appliance buttons such as OK Message Viewing and App Execution may be additionally displayed on the display screen of the terminal device together with the push message. If a user presses the OK button the push message disappears from the display screen. If a user presses the Message Viewing button detailed information on the push message is displayed on the display screen. On the other hand if a user presses the App Execution button the terminal device executes an application program so that the system for managing home appliances can manage a corresponding home appliance.

After receiving the push message the terminal device may execute a manipulation command included in the push message without executing an application program. Referring to after a washing machine has ended a washing process the appliance management device transmits to the terminal device status information which reads Washing process has ended in the form of a push message. If there is a subsequent process a message which reads Wrinkle preventing process has started may be included in the push message and an OK button may be displayed on the display screen of the terminal device . If a user taps the OK button the washing machine starts to perform a wrinkle preventing process. That is the terminal device may provide a user with a management command with respect to a home appliance without executing an application program.

Referring to a push service method of a system for managing home appliances according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises a step S of receiving device information and registration information on a home appliance and registering the home appliance a step S of receiving status information from the registered home appliance a step S of determining whether the status information is specific status information a step S of generating a push message based on the status information if the status information is specific status information as a result of the determination a step S of transmitting the push message to a registered terminal device and a step S S of determining whether the terminal device has normally received the push message. In S S if a response message to the push message is transmitted within a prescribed time it is determined that the terminal device has normally received the push message. Hereinafter a configuration of a device will be understood with reference to .

A push service method by the system for managing home appliances will be explained with reference to .

Firstly if the home appliance transmits specific status information to the appliance management device A S S the appliance management device generates a push message S and requests transmission of the push message from the push server B . The specific status information is at least one of START END and ERROR of a process of the home appliance . The home appliance is at least one of a washing machine a refrigerator a cooker an air conditioner and a cleaner. In case of a washing machine a notification of TERMINATION OF PROCESS may be performed using a push message after a process such as a washing process a rinsing process and a dehydration process has ended. Alternatively a notification of ERROR may be performed with respect to an error occurring during a process using a push message. In case of a cooker a push message may be generated using specific status information such as a notification of FOOD TURNING a notification of COMPLETION OF COURSE and a notification of ERROR . The appliance management device stores therein device information registration information etc. on the home appliance .

The push server requests a server of the communication provider to transmit the push message to the terminal device C . The push server stores therein registration information and terminal information on the terminal device. The communication provider requested to transmit a push message transmits a push message corresponding to status information to the terminal device D S . The push message is transmitted or received by an open API. The appliance management device may store therein specific status information and a push message corresponding to the specific status information in a patterned manner.

If the terminal device has normally received the push message the terminal device transmits a response message to the push message to the push server S . That is the terminal device requests an ACK procedure from the push server E . The push server updates a reception result on the response message i.e. an ACK result F . The push server transmits the ACK result to the appliance management device G . The push server feedbacks the ACK result to the terminal device I . Then the terminal device displays the push message on the display screen J . The appliance management device may reply whether it has received the ACK result or not to the push server H .

In a case where the terminal device has not normally received the push message NO in S the operations E J are not performed. If a response message to the push message has not been received within a prescribed time YES in S the appliance management device requests again the push server to transmit the push message.

The push service method may further comprise repeatedly transmitting the push message a prescribed number of times S if the terminal device has not transmitted the response message within the prescribed time S . If the push message is transmitted more than a prescribed number of times the appliance management device may output a push error . The prescribed time is a preset time which may be set as several msec 30 seconds 1 minute and etc. The prescribed number of times may be also preset as 3 times 5 times and etc.

The system for managing home appliances and the push service method thereof according to the present disclosure can have the following advantages.

Firstly as home appliances are registered to the management system for management service a user can easily monitor or control the home appliances from a remote place.

Secondly the present disclosure discloses a push service with respect to specific status information of a home appliance such as START END and ERROR.

Fourthly even when the terminal device does not execute an appliance management application specific status information can be provided to the terminal device using a push service. This can allow home appliances to be managed efficiently.

The foregoing embodiments and advantages are merely exemplary and are not to be considered as limiting the present disclosure. The present teachings can be readily applied to other types of apparatuses. This description is intended to be illustrative and not to limit the scope of the claims. Many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The features structures methods and other characteristics of the exemplary embodiments described herein may be combined in various ways to obtain additional and or alternative exemplary embodiments.

As the present features may be embodied in several forms without departing from the characteristics thereof it should also be understood that the above described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description unless otherwise specified but rather should be considered broadly within its scope as defined in the appended claims and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims or equivalents of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims.

