---

title: Systems and methods for wireless signal measurement and reporting for device to-device communication
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for configuration and reporting of proximity detection measurements are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) is configured to receive and store a PD-RS list from an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN) node B (eNB). The PD-RS list includes a radio resource configuration for at least a first proximity discovery reference signal (PD-RS). The UE is configured to measure at least the first PD-RS to determine a signal parameter for the first PD-RS. The UE reports the signal parameter for the first PD-RS to the eNB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09173124&OS=09173124&RS=09173124
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09173124
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to wireless signal measurement and reporting for device to device communication in a wireless communication network.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE standard the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi. In 3GPP LTE systems the radio access network RAN known as Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN includes the base station also commonly denoted as E UTRAN NodeB eNodeB or eNB which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE .

Proximity based discovery and device to device D2D communication between devices such as UEs have gained strong interest because they provide the network operator the possibility to offer new types of applications and services for commercial social and public safety use. Furthermore proximity based discovery and D2D communication provide the network operator the possibility to temporarily offload user traffic exchanged between two UEs in proximity of each other from the network infrastructure to a D2D direct communication path.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

There are two basic approaches for proximity discovery for UEs including UE based discovery and UE assisted discovery. In UE based proximity discovery the UE measures the proximity discovery signals transmitted from other UEs to be discovered and determines on its own which of those UEs are within its proximity. In UE assisted proximity discovery the UE measures the proximity discovery signals transmitted from other UEs and sends the measured results to the network. UE assisted proximity discovery allows the network to control device to device communication according to its own policies and can thus optimize the function and usage for the network and also maintain security for UEs. Network control is also useful when licensed bands are being used for D2D direct communication such as in LTE direct. The present disclosure focuses on UE assisted proximity discovery including for example configuration of UEs for signal measurement and reporting to the network.

An objective of 3GPP standard development organization SDO discussions is to study use cases and identify potential requirements for operator network controlled discovery and communications between devices that are in proximity under continuous network control and are under LTE network coverage. In this context a new type of UE and network is being considered that supports discovery and communications between devices that are in proximity. A UE and a network that implement these proximity services may be referred to as a D2D enabled UE and a D2D enabled network respectively.

As used herein the terms proximity discovery and proximity based discovery are given to mean a process that identifies a device or UE that is in proximity to another UE. The term open proximity discovery is given to mean proximity discovery without explicit permission from the UE being discovered. The term restricted proximity discovery is given to mean a proximity discovery that takes place with permission from the UE being discovered. The term D2D communication is given to mean a communication between at least two or more UEs in proximity by means of a direct communication path established between the UEs. Examples of direct communication paths for D2D communication include LTE direct WiFi direct Bluetooth or other direct communication path protocols or standards.

In a D2D enabled network and or with D2D enabled UEs proximity discovery may have different requirements based on whether or not a UE is currently engaged in D2D communication. For example proximity detection while the UE is engaged in D2D communication may be used to determine whether another UE continues to remain in close enough proximity to continue the D2D communication. If the UE is not yet engaged in D2D communication proximity detection may be used to determine whether another UE is close enough to the UE to establish a D2D session. In the live D2D communication situation proximity may need to be detected on a frequent interval or even continuously to make sure that data can be communicated or so that a data flow may be switched to an infrastructure path before the UEs move too far apart. If the UE is not engaged in D2D communication less frequent checks or even a single check for proximity may suffice.

According to one embodiment proximity discovery is performed based on measurements of a reference signal made by a UE. For example the UE may measure one or more reference signals from a UE or other device. In one embodiment the results of these measurements are forwarded to the network eNB and or core network entity to determine whether other UEs are in proximity of the reporting UE. According to one embodiment the signals measured are UE specific. For example the UE measures the signals transmitted from other UEs instead of signals from a serving cell or a neighbor cell. The UE may measure any type of reference signal for proximity discovery. For example an LTE uplink signal such as a sounding reference signal SRS can be used or another proximity detection or D2D specific signal may be used. As used herein the term proximity discovery reference signal PD RS is given to generically mean any signal used as a reference signal for proximity discovery of a nearby device such as a UE.

In one embodiment different types of methods to trigger measurement or measurement reporting may be used depending on a current situation. For example in case of proximity discovery when UE is not currently engaged in D2D communication periodic or continuous proximity discovery may not be required. A single measurement or attempt at measurement for a certain measurement period may be sufficient to detecting whether another device is close enough to the UE. However in the case of proximity discovery during D2D communication periodic or continuous measurement may be required to manage D2D communication and ensure that the devices are close enough to carry on the D2D communication.

According to one embodiment both open and restricted proximity discovery are possible with a D2D enabled network and D2D enabled UEs. In other words proximity discovery may be possible with or without explicit permission from a UE being discovered. In case of open proximity discovery the UE may be required to measure reference signals from a large number of UEs if there are many D2D UEs in proximity and may only detect a small number of UEs which actually allow themselves to be discovered. In case of restricted proximity discovery an eNB may be configured to provide information regarding UEs that are available for discovery to a UE to reduce effort required by the UE for detection.

In one embodiment the UEs eNBs and core network are D2D enabled. For example the UEs may be capable of D2D communication with each other and the eNBs and core network may be configured to assist in proximity discovery and D2D communication establishment between the UEs . In one embodiment one or more of the UEs are configured to attempt to identify other UEs that are within proximity. A UE may measure signal quality or signal strength of a received discovery signal transmitted by another UE . The UE may then send a measurement report to an eNB which may determine whether the UEs are in proximity and or configure a D2D communication between UEs .

Some of the UEs are involved in a first D2D communication session a second D2D communication session and a D2D group communication session . The first D2D communication session involves two UEs located within a coverage region for the same eNB . According to one embodiment because the UEs can communicate with the same eNB a single eNB may be able to identify the proximity of the UEs and or configure the first D2D communication session . For example the eNB may not need to communicate with the core network in order to establish the first D2D communication session . The second D2D communication session involves two UEs that are located within coverage regions of different eNBs . According to one embodiment because the UEs cannot communicate with the same eNB the eNBs must communicate with each other and or the core network in order to identify the proximity of the UEs and or configure the second D2D communication session . In one embodiment an eNB may communicate with another eNB to locate UEs that may be connected to the other eNB but nevertheless are in proximity for D2D communication. For example each eNB may need to communicate with neighboring eNBs and a respective UE in order to establish the second D2D communication session .

The D2D group communication session involves more than two UEs involved with each other in the D2D group communication session . For example each UE in the D2D group communication session is involved in D2D communication with two other UEs . Three or more UEs involved in a group communication session may be referred to as a D2D group.

The plurality of UEs may include any type of mobile communication device or computing device. For example the UEs may include mobile phones such as smart phones tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs notebook computers Ultrabook computers or other communication or computing devices. The UEs may also include low mobility or fixed location devices which nevertheless access communication or networking services via the eNBs and or core network . The eNBs may include other types of radios depending on other embodiments and an implemented communication protocol.

The eNB includes a transceiver component and a processing component . The processing component is configured to generate configuration information for the UE determine a capability of the UE determine a proximity of a device to the UE based on measurement reports and perform other functions of the eNB as described herein. The transceiver component includes a receiver component configured to receive measurement reports capability information and other signals and messages as described herein. The transceiver component also includes a transmission component configured to transmit configuration information transmit messages to configure a D2D session and to transmit other signals and messages as described herein.

The eNB enquires as to the capabilities of the UE . The eNB may enquire as to the capabilities of the UE by sending a proximity detection PD measurement capability enquiry message. The enquiry may request specific information regarding the UE s capabilities including whether the UE is capable of D2D communication the types of D2D communication for which the UE is configured and or whether the UE is capable of simultaneous transmission or reception of additional signals while receiving PD RS. The latter capability may be used by the UE to indicate whether it supports the following cases to the eNB . In the first case the UE can measure incoming PD RS while it simultaneously transmits PD RS for another UEs proximity discovery. In the second case the UE can measure incoming PD RS while it simultaneously transmits LTE uplink signal to the eNB or transmits signals to other D2D enabled UEs . In the third case the UE can measure incoming PD RS while it simultaneously receives LTE downlink signal from the eNB or receives signals from other D2D enabled UEs .

The UE provides capability information to the eNB indicating capabilities of the UE . For example the UE may provide a PD measurement capability information message that indicates the capabilities of the UE . The capability information may indicate whether the UE is capable of simultaneous transmission or reception of additional signals while receiving PD RS. For example if the UE includes only a single radio frequency RF chain the UE may not be capable of measuring an incoming signal while simultaneously transmitting a signal. Additionally the capability information provided by the UE may indicate D2D protocols and interfaces through which the UE is capable of direct communication. For example the capability information may indicate that the UE is capable of direct communication using LTE direct WiFi direct Bluetooth and or other protocols or standards.

The eNB provides measurement configuration information to the UE . The eNB may provide a PD measurement configuration message that includes a variety of settings and values to configure the UE for PD RS measurement. In one embodiment the eNB may provide a message indicating one or more of a measurement gap pattern radio resource configuration information for a proximity discovery reference signal PD RS an event definition a reporting interval a discovery type e.g. open or restricted and or a plurality of other types of settings.

In one embodiment the eNB provides measurement configuration information that includes a measurement gap pattern. For example if the capability information provided by the UE indicates that the UE is not capable of simultaneous transmission or reception of additional signals while receiving PD RS the eNB may provide a measurement gap pattern that configures the UE to measure incoming PD RS signals during a measurement gap and prohibits the UE from transmitting or receiving signals during the measurement gap.

Measurement gaps may be needed because at least in some embodiments proximity discovery and D2D communication are supported using a UL resource. For example PD RS may be transmitted on uplink resource such as in LTE frequency division duplex FDD mode or LTE time division duplex TDD mode. In LTE FDD mode PD RS may be transmitted in the uplink subframes of the uplink frequency band while in LTE TDD mode the PD RS may be transmitted in the subframes reserved for uplink transmission of the TDD frequency band. Therefore if a UE has only one RF chain the UE may be required to transmit and receive signals simultaneously unless measurement gaps are configured. In the case where a UE is able to transmit and receive signals simultaneously a measurement gap pattern and or measurement gap may not need to be configured.

In one embodiment a measurement gap pattern configuration optimized for PD RS measurement may also be configurable. For example in order to save the UE power consumption as much as possible a different periodicity for a proximity detection measurement gap may be desirable. In one embodiment the periodicity of a measurement gap to measure PD RSs is longer than that of a cell reference signal CRS . The gap pattern 2 in illustrates one embodiment of a proximity detection specific measurement gap pattern. The measurement gap repetition period MGRP is listed as N p which is the minimum periodicity for any PD RS to be measured. By matching the period for a measurement gap pattern to the PD RS reduced energy usage may be accomplished for the UE . Similar to gap patterns 0 and 1 the measurement gap of gap pattern 2 may be shared for other measurement purposes.

Returning to the eNB may provide measurement configuration information that includes radio resource configuration information for a proximity discovery reference signal. For example the eNB may provide radio resource configuration information for a device that is discoverable by the UE . The radio resource configuration information may include information to allow the UE to more easily locate a signal that is discoverable and also allow the UE to more quickly and or accurately determine a signal parameter of a PD RS that corresponds to the other device. The radio resource configuration information may include a transmission offset that indicates a transmission power for a corresponding PD RS. This PD RS specific transmission offset may only be required when the proximity discovery signal is transmitted with a different transmit power. For example if all UEs transmit proximity discovery signals with a same power e.g. a maximum transmit power PD RS specific transmission offsets may not be required. Thus the measurement of the PD RS may be used to more accurately and quickly determine a signal parameter of the other device and or a proximity of the other device. In one embodiment the radio resource configuration information includes an identifier for the PD RS and or a device that is transmitting the PD RS.

In one embodiment the UE may store a PD RS list of signals which are to be measured by the UE . The PD RS list may store an identifier transmission offset or other information specific to a PD RS to be measured by the UE. The PD RS list may include radio resource configuration information or other information received from the eNB . For example each time the UE receives radio resource configuration information from the eNB the UE may update the PD RS list to reflect the new radio resource configuration information. According to one embodiment the eNB maintains the PD RS list by controlling what is included in the PD RS list. In one embodiment the eNB may transmit a message to add modify or remove a PD RS of the PD RS list. For example a PD RS addition or replacement message to add or modify a PD RS may include an identifier and radio resource configuration information for the PD RS. In one embodiment the eNB can add a new PD RS to the PD RS list or modify an existing PD RS by signaling a PD measurement configuration message with a PD RSToAddModList information. A PD RS removal message to remove a PD RS from the PD RS list may include an index corresponding to the PD RS to be removed. In one embodiment only an index is needed because each PD RS in the PD RS list includes its own unique index in the list. An existing PD RS entry can be removed from the PD RS list by signaling a PD measurement configuration message with a PD RSToRemoveList information.

According to one embodiment the eNB may provide measurement configuration information that includes an event definition and or a reporting interval defining when to report measurement data to the eNB . An event definition may define an occurrence that triggers reporting of a measurement for a PD RS or for multiple PD RSs. A reporting interval may define a time interval on which measurement reports for any measured PD RSs or a subset of measured PD RSs should be reported. In one embodiment a reporting interval may configure the UE to provide a measurement report periodically on the reporting interval regardless of whether the event is detected. In another embodiment a reporting interval may configure the UE to provide a measurement report periodically on the reporting interval in response to detecting the event. Further discussion of measurement reporting and triggering of measurement reporting will be discussed below in relation to providing a PD measurement report of and and .

According to one embodiment the eNB provides measurement configuration information that indicates a discovery type to be performed by the UE . In one embodiment the eNB selectively configures the UE to perform an open proximity discovery wherein the UE is free to perform proximity discovery measurements on any PD RS it detects. For example even if the UE stores a PD RS list and or if the eNB provides radio resource configuration information for one or more PD RSs the UE may be configured to perform proximity discovery on a PD RS that does not correspond to an entry in the PD RS list or radio resource configuration information provided by the eNB . Alternatively the eNB may selectively configure the UE to perform restricted proximity discovery. In restricted proximity discovery the UE may only perform measurements on PD RSs for which the UE has received radio resource configuration information or other information from the eNB . For example the UE may only perform measurements on PD RSs in a PD RS list stored on the UE when the UE is configured for restricted proximity discovery.

The following shows an example of ASN.1 coding for MeasObjectEUTRA to configure a measurement object such as a PD RS with the UE 

The field typePD RSMeas indicates whether PD RS measurement is in an open discovery mode or restricted discovery mode. If it is in an open discovery mode the UE can measure a PD RS which is not in the PD RS list. Otherwise the UE measures PD RS configured in the PD RS list only restricted mode . The field pD RSToRemoveList may be used to indicate a list of PD RSs to remove from the PD RS list. The field pD RSToAddModList may be used to indicate a list of PD RSs to add or modify in the PD RS list. The field pD RSIndex indicates an index of a PD RS in the PD RS list. The field pD RSresourceConf indicates the radio resource configuration for a PD RS. The field pD RSIndividualOffset indicates a PD RS specific transmission offset for a specific PD RS. The values dB 24 dB 22 etc in the OffsetRange correspond to 24 dB 22 dB and so on. In one embodiment the fields pD RSToRemoveList and pD RSToAddModList are mandatory in the case where typePD RSMeas is set to restricted and are not needed when typePD RSMeas is set to open.

In one embodiment a new measurement object MeasObjectD2D can be introduced instead of modifying the MeasObjectEUTRA object as illustrated above 

Returning to the UE measures PD RS signals based on the received configuration information. For example the UE may measure one or more PD RS signals located in a PD RS list to determine a signal parameter for each PD RS. The signal parameter may include a signal strength signal to noise ratio signal to interference ratio SIR or other signal parameter of the PD RS that may be helpful for proximity detection. In one embodiment the UE measures the PD RS signals during a measurement gap and prohibits UL transmission during the measurement gap as configured by the eNB . The UE may also be configured to determine whether a specific PD RS corresponds to a device that is engaged in D2D communication with the UE . In one embodiment a PD RS that corresponds to a device engaged in D2D communication with the UE may be measured more frequently than another PD RS.

The UE reports PD RS measurements to the eNB . The reported measurements may include one or more signal parameters determined by the UE . In one embodiment the eNB wants to receive the information regarding whether there are other devices in proximity of a UE . The UE measures each PD RS that is detected during a measurement period such as a measurement gap. A single attempt at signal detection and measurement may be sufficient as long as the measurement is reliable and as long as the UE measures sufficient percentage of detected PD RSs. The UE may or may not need to perform periodic PD RS measurements for proximity discovery to see if there are any nearby devices. Although there may be minimal requirements for frequency of PD RS measurement prior to establishing a D2D session this can change significantly following establishing of a D2D communication session. For example after the D2D session is established it is also generally necessary to determine whether the devices continue to remain in proximity and or whether any additional devices come into proximity of the UE . Therefore more frequent measurement reporting to manage a D2D session may be required.

Three types of measurement reporting methods may need to be considered for supporting different implementations of proximity discovery and D2D communication including event triggered reporting periodic reporting and periodic reporting after event triggering.

In event triggered reporting a UE can send a measurement report when a measurement meets one or more reporting criteria as defined in an event definition. In one embodiment the UE sends a PD measurement report to the eNB in response to a triggering event. For example an event definition received from the eNB may define an occurrence of a triggering event. The UE may detect occurrence of the event and report a measurement to the eNB . The occurrence of the event and or the measurement report may be used by the eNB to determine whether a UE is close enough to another UE in order to be involved in a D2D communication session. In one embodiment the event includes a change of a signal parameter of a PD RS that indicates another device has moved within or out of range of the UE . Event triggered reporting may be beneficial to save the amount of reporting signaling because the UE can send the measurement reports only when the signal quality of a PD RS has changed e.g. has become strong enough to connect or weak enough to drop D2D communication .

In one embodiment an event definition defines an occurrence of a signal parameter for a PD RS exceeding an absolute threshold. Detection of a PD RS exceeding an absolute threshold may be useful to determine whether a corresponding device can participate in a D2D session with the UE regardless of whether or not the UE is already involved in a D2D session. A UE may compare measurements for a PD RS to one or more conditions defining the occurrence of the PD RS exceeding an absolute threshold. In one embodiment an entering condition for exceeding an absolute threshold is determined based on equation 1 below and a leaving condition for falling below an absolute threshold is determined based on equation 2 below. 1 2 

Ms corresponds to measured value for the PD RS Hys corresponds to a hysteresis value defined by the eNB or in the UE and Thresh corresponds to the absolute threshold value. Ms may be a measurement of received signal strength in dBm a measurement of a signal to interference ratio SIR in dB or any other signal parameter. The parameters Hys and Thresh may be configured through RRC Radio Resource Control protocol sublayer signaling between the UE and eNB . According to one embodiment a measurement report is triggered in response to the occurrence of the entering condition.

In one embodiment an event definition defines an occurrence of a signal parameter for a PD RS falling below an absolute threshold. Detection of a PD RS falling below an absolute threshold may be useful for determining whether a D2D session should be terminated and or if communication flows should be switched to an infrastructure communication path. In one embodiment an entering condition for falling below the absolute threshold is determined based on equation 3 below and a leaving condition for exceeding the absolute threshold is determined based on equation 4 below. 3 4 

According to one embodiment a measurement report is triggered in response to the occurrence of the entering condition. In one embodiment the UE may also determine whether the PD RS corresponds to a device with which the UE is in D2D communication before sending the measurement report.

In one embodiment the event definition defines occurrence of a signal parameter for a PD RS and one or more additional PD RSs exceeding an absolute threshold. For example the event may define the occurrence of multiple PD RSs exceeding an absolute threshold as defined by equations 1 and 2 above. Determining whether multiple UEs have PD RSs that exceed an absolute threshold may be useful in establishing a group D2D communication session. illustrates an example of multiple signals and exceeding the threshold based on equations 1 and 2 above. A UE may detect occurrence of the signals and all exceeding the threshold at point .

In one embodiment an event definition defines an occurrence of a signal parameter for a PD RS improving above a corresponding signal parameter for another PD RS. For example the event may define the occurrence of a first signal parameter improving above the second signal parameter. Determining comparative signal quality and or proximity may be useful in determining which device can have the best connection with a given UE . The eNB may be able to use this information to create a more efficient communication path between D2D enabled UEs . The second signal parameter may correspond to a best PD RS and or a PD RS of a device that is engaged in D2D communication with the UE . In one embodiment an entering condition for improving above a corresponding signal parameter is determined based on equation 5 below and a leaving condition for falling below a corresponding signal parameter is determined based on equation 6 below. 5 6 

MRef may correspond to a reference signal against which a PD RS is being compared. For example MRef may be the PD RS for a device engaged in D2D communication with the UE the best or strongest PD RS in terms of signal quality detected by the UE . In one embodiment which PD RS to use as MRef may be configured by the eNB and or may correspond to an item in a PD RS list with a lowest index. Ocn is the PD RS specific offset for the measured value Ms. Ocb is the PD RS specific offset for the reference signal MRef. For example Ocn and Ocb may be the transmission offset provided as part of radio resource configuration information by the eNB during configuration of the UE . Ocn and Ocb may be omitted or may be zero if all PD RS are transmitted with the same power. Off may be an offset parameter similar to Hys of equations 1 4 . According to one embodiment a measurement report is triggered in response to the entering condition. In one embodiment the UE may also determine whether the PD RS corresponds to a device with which the UE is in D2D communication before sending the measurement report.

In periodic reporting a UE may report measurement results of any measured PD RS every reporting interval. A reporting interval for proximity discovery signal can be configured by the eNB or predefined in the specification. For proximity discovery purposes only the UE may not need to measure PD RS periodically and measurement and or reports may only be provided when requested by the eNB . A reporting amount value e.g. reportAmount can be provided by the eNB to configure the UE to send either a single measurement report e.g. reportAmount 1 or multiple reports e.g. reportAmount is greater than one or even unlimited . In one embodiment if a UE is configured to send only one report it may be desirable to give enough time for the UE to detect other UEs in proximity. Therefore the monitoring time may be defined before the UE sends a first measurement report and or if at least a minimum number e.g. N of PD RSs are available in the UE where the minimum number is either predefined e.g. N 1 or configured by the eNB through RRC signaling.

In periodic reporting after event triggering the UE can send periodic reporting in response to a measurement meeting one of the above event triggered conditions.

The field eventID indicates a choice of PD RS event triggered reporting criteria. The field Hysteresis is a parameter used within the entry and leave condition of an event triggered reporting condition such as the Hys variable included in equations 1 through 4 . The actual value of Hysteresis in one embodiment is Information Element IE value 0.5 dB where the IE value refers to a value fo Hysteresis as signaled as part of the measurement reporting configuration via ReportConfigPD RS. The field reportAmount indicates a number of measurement reports applicable for the triggerType event as well as for the triggerType periodical. The field ReportInterval indicates a time interval between periodical reports.

The ReportInterval is applicable if the UE performs periodical reporting i.e. when reportAmount exceeds 1 . The value ms120 corresponds with 120 ms ms240 corresponds with 240 ms and so on while value mini corresponds with 1 minute min6 corresponds with 6 minutes and so on. The field reportQuantity indicates quantities to be included in a measurement report. The value both means that both the reference signal received power RSRP and the reference signal receive quality RSRQ quantities are to be included in the measurement report. The field ThresholdEUTRA indicates a threshold for event evaluation. For RSRP the actual threshold value is IE value 140 dBm. For RSRQ the actual threshold value is IE value 40 2 dB. The field timeToTrigger indicates the time in ms during which specific criteria for the event needs to be met in order to trigger a measurement report. The field triggerQuantity indicates the quantities used to evaluate the triggering condition for the event. The values RSRP and RSRQ correspond to proximity discovery reference signal received power PD RSRP and reference signal received quality PD RSRQ .

The UE and eNB con proximity measurement. In one embodiment the proximity measurement may be configured in a manner similar to that discussed in relation to . For example configuring proximity measurement may include the eNB enquiring as to the capabilities of the UE the UE providing capability information and the eNB providing measurement configuration information to the UE with any of the variation as discussed herein.

The proximity UEs may transmit PD RS which are then measured by the UE . The UE then provides measurement reports to the eNB . The measurement reports may be provided based on event triggered reporting periodic reporting and periodic reporting after event triggering as discussed above.

Based on the received measurement reports the eNB configures the UE and any proximity UEs for D2D communication. For example the eNB may con D2D communication when the measurement reports provided by the UE indicate that the proximity UEs are close enough to establish D2D communication. Based on the configuration from the eNB the UE and any proximity UEs start D2D communication.

The UE continues to measure PD RSs from the proximity UEs to monitor D2D communication and or to detect additional UEs that come within proximity. The UE also continues to provide measurement reports as configured by the eNB . According to one embodiment the eNB may modify the D2D communication and or end D2D communication based on the measurement reports provided by the UE .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present disclosure may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Example 1 is a UE that includes processing circuitry. The processing circuitry is configured to receive and store a PD RS list from an eNB. The PD RS list includes a radio resource configuration for at least a first PD RS. The processing circuitry measures at least the first PD RS to determine a signal parameter for the first PD RS and reports the signal parameter for the first PD RS to the eNB.

In Example 2 the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS of Example 1 can optionally include a transmission offset. The transmission offset indicates a transmission power of the first PD RS.

In Example 3 the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS of Examples 1 2 can optionally include an identifier for the first PD RS.

In Example 4 the processing circuitry of Examples 1 3 can optionally be further configured to receive an open discovery mode configuration. The open discovery mode configuration configures the UE to measure any PD RS in addition to the PD RSs listed in the PD RS list.

In Example 5 wherein the processing circuitry of Examples 1 4 can optionally be further configured to receive a restricted discovery mode configuration. The restricted discovery mode configuration configures the UE to only measure PD RSs listed in the PD RS list.

In Example 6 the receiving and storing the PD RS list of Examples 1 5 can optionally include receiving a PD RS addition message comprising the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS and storing the radio resource configuration in the PD RS list.

In Example 7 the receiving and storing the PD RS list of Examples 1 6 can optionally include receiving a PD RS replacement message comprising the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS and storing the radio resource configuration in the PD RS list to replace previous radio resource configuration information.

In Example 8 the processing circuitry of Examples 1 7 can optionally be further configured to receive a PD RS removal message indicating removal of an entry for a second PD RS and remove the entry for the second PD RS from the PD RS list in response to receiving the PD RS removal message.

In Example 9 a PD RS removal message of Examples 1 8 can optionally include an index for the entry for the second PD RS.

Example 10 is a UE including a receiver a processor and a transmission component. The receiver component is configured to receive from an eNB measurement report configuration data comprising an event definition. The receiver component is configured to measure a reference signal to determine a signal parameter for the reference signal. The signal parameter for the reference signal includes a signal strength of the reference signal. The processor is configured to detect an event based on the signal parameter for the reference signal and the event definition. The event indicates a change in the signal parameter for the reference signal. The transmission component is configured to report in response to detecting the event the signal parameter for the reference signal to the eNB.

In Example 11 the event definition of Example 10 defines occurrence of the signal parameter for the reference signal exceeding an absolute threshold.

In Example 12 the event definition of Example 10 11 can optionally define occurrence of the signal parameter for the reference signal falling below an absolute threshold when a device corresponding to the reference signal is in D2D communication with the UE.

In Example 13 the event definition of Examples 10 12 can optionally define occurrence of a first signal parameter for the reference signal improving above a second signal parameter for a reference signal of a device that is a member of a D2D group comprising the UE.

In Example 14 the event definition of Examples 10 13 can optionally define occurrence of the signal parameter for the reference signal and one or more additional reference signal exceeding an absolute threshold.

In Example 15 the processor of Examples 10 14 can optionally be configured to determine that the reference signal corresponds to a device that is engaged in D2D communication with the UE.

In Example 16 the measurement report configuration data received by the receiver component of Examples 10 15 can optionally further include a reporting interval. The measurement report configuration data configures the transmission component to provide a measurement report to the eNB one or more of periodically on the reporting interval regardless of whether the event is detected and periodically on the reporting interval in response to detecting the event.

Example 17 is a UE that includes a transmission component a receiver component and a processor. The transmission component is configured to provide capability information to an eNB indicating that the UE is not capable of simultaneous transmission or reception of additional signals while receiving reference signals. The receiver component is configured to receive a measurement gap pattern from the eNB. The measurement gap pattern includes a measurement gap. The processor configures based on the measurement gap pattern the UE to perform proximity detection measurement on one or more reference signals during the measurement gap. The processor configures the UE to prohibit transmission or reception of additional signals during the measurement gap.

In Example 18 the measurement gap of the measurement gap pattern of Example 17 can optionally occur on a period greater than a cell reference signal.

In Example 19 the measurement gap of Examples 17 18 can optionally be shared with one or more of inter frequency measurement and inter RAT measurement.

In Example 20 the receiver component of Examples 17 19 can optionally further receive prioritization information to prioritize one or more of the proximity detection measurement the inter frequency measurement and the inter RAT measurement to be performed first by the UE.

Example 21 is a method for proximity detection. The method includes providing a measurement capability enquiry to a UE. The method includes receiving measurement capability information from the UE. The measurement capability information indicates whether the UE is capable of simultaneous transmission and reception of UL signals. The method includes providing proximity detection measurement configuration information for configuring proximity detection and reporting at the UE based on the proximity detection measurement configuration information. The measurement configuration information includes one or more of a measurement gap pattern radio resource configuration information for a reference signal an event definition and a reporting interval. The method includes receiving measurement reports from the UE regarding one or more reference signals measured by the UE.

In Example 22 the method of Example 21 can optionally further include configuring D2D communication between the UE and one or more devices corresponding to the one or more PD RSs based on the received measurement reports.

In Example 23 configuring D2D communication of Examples 21 22 can optionally include one or more of establishing D2D communication modifying D2D communication and ending D2D communication between the UE and the one or more devices.

Example 24 is an eNB that includes processing circuitry. The processing circuitry maintains a reference signal list on a mobile station. The reference signal list includes radio resource configurations for one or more reference signals. The processing circuitry receives measurement reports from the mobile station regarding at least one reference signal of the one or more reference signals on the reference signal list measured by the mobile station. The processing circuitry configures D2D communication between the mobile station and one or more devices corresponding to the one or more reference signals based on the received measurement reports.

In Example 25 configuring D2D communication in Example 24 optionally includes one or more of establishing D2D communication modifying D2D communication and ending D2D communication between the mobile station and the one or more devices.

Example 26 is a method for proximity detection. The method includes receiving and storing a PD RS list from an eNB the PD RS list comprising a radio resource configuration for at least a first PD RS . The method includes measuring at least the first PD RS to determine a signal parameter for the first PD RS. The method includes reporting the signal parameter for the first PD RS to the eNB.

In Example 27 the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS of Example 26 can optionally include a transmission offset. The transmission offset indicates a transmission power of the first PD RS.

In Example 28 the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS of Examples 26 27 can optionally include an identifier for the first PD RS.

In Example 29 the method of Examples 26 28 can optionally include receiving an open discovery mode configuration. The open discovery mode configuration configures the UE to measure any PD RS in addition to the PD RSs listed in the PD RS list.

In Example 30 the method of Examples 26 29 can optionally include receiving a restricted discovery mode configuration. The restricted discovery mode configuration configures the UE to only measure PD RSs listed in the PD RS list.

In Example 31 the receiving and storing the PD RS list of Examples 26 30 can optionally include receiving a PD RS addition message including the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS and storing the radio resource configuration in the PD RS list.

In Example 32 the receiving and storing the PD RS list of Examples 26 31 can optionally include receiving a PD RS replacement message including the radio resource configuration for the first PD RS and storing the radio resource configuration in the PD RS list to replace previous radio resource configuration information.

In Example 33 the method of Examples 26 32 can optionally include receiving a PD RS removal message indicating removal of an entry for a second PD RS and removing the entry for the second PD RS from the PD RS list in response to receiving the PD RS removal message.

In Example 34 a PD RS removal message of Example 33 optionally includes an index for the entry for the second PD RS.

In Example 35 the methods of Examples 26 34 can optionally include receiving at least one of a measurement gap pattern an event definition and or a reporting interval.

Example 37 is a UE that includes a receiver component a processor and a transmission component. The receiver component is configured to receive from an eNB measurement report configuration data comprising an event definition. The receiver component is configured to measure a reference signal to determine a signal parameter for the reference signal. The signal parameter for the reference signal includes a signal strength of the reference signal. The processor is configured to detect an event based on the signal parameter for the reference signal and the event definition. The event indicates a change in the signal parameter for the reference signal. The transmission component is configured to report in response to detecting the event the signal parameter for the reference signal to the eNB.

In Example 38 the event definition of Example 38 can optionally define occurrence the signal parameter for the reference signal exceeding an absolute threshold.

In Example 39 the event definition of Examples 37 38 can optionally define occurrence of the signal parameter for the reference signal falling below an absolute threshold when a device corresponding to the reference signal is in D2D communication with the UE.

In Example 40 the event definition of Examples 37 39 can optionally define occurrence of a first signal parameter for the reference signal improving above a second signal parameter for a reference signal of a device that is a member of a D2D group comprising the UE.

In Example 41 the event definition of Examples 37 40 can optionally define occurrence of the signal parameter for the reference signal and one or more additional reference signal exceeding an absolute threshold.

In Example 42 the processor of Examples 37 41 can optionally be configured to determine that the reference signal corresponds to a device that is engaged in D2D communication with the UE.

In Example 43 the measurement report configuration data received by the receiver component of Examples 37 42 optionally includes a reporting interval.

In Example 44 the measurement report configuration data of Examples 37 43 optionally configures the transmission component to provide a measurement report to the eNB periodically on the reporting interval regardless of whether the event is detected.

In Example 44 the measurement report configuration data of Examples 37 43 optionally configures the transmission component to provide a measurement report to the eNB periodically on the reporting interval in response to detecting the event.

Example 45 is machine readable storage including machine readable instructions when executed to implement a method or realize an apparatus of any of Examples 1 44.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

