---

title: Modular data center
abstract: Described are methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, relating to an air module and control thereof. An air module can include a controller, an air intake module configured to receive first air from a first air source and to receive second air from a second air source, an evaporative cooling module in fluid communication with the air intake module, and a mechanical cooling module in fluid communication with the evaporative cooling module. The controller can be configured to cause the intake module to mix the first air and the second air to form intake air, and selectively cool the intake air to form supply air by at least one of causing the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool the intake air, and causing the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool the intake.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661788&OS=09661788&RS=09661788
owner: BASELAYER TECHNOLOGY, LLC
number: 09661788
owner_city: Chandler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130930
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 750 689 filed on Jan. 9 2013 and titled Modular Data Center the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 839 709 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and titled Modular Data Center the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present technology relates generally to data centers and more specifically to modular data centers.

Generally data centers are facilities that support the operation of IT equipment. In one aspect a data center can involve managing the environment of the IT equipment e.g. managing the temperature of the environment surrounding the IT equipment to provide cooling for the IT equipment. Typical approaches to managing the environment of the IT equipment can include the use of conventional HVAC units to mechanically cool air. Such approaches can rely exclusively on mechanically cooling the air within the data center which can lead to excessive power usage and inefficiency.

Accordingly there is a need for methods and systems for efficiently managing the data center environment. In one aspect an air module can include a controller an air intake module configured to receive first air from a first air source and to receive second air from a second air source an evaporative cooling module in fluid communication with the air intake module and a mechanical cooling module in fluid communication with the evaporative cooling module. The controller can be configured to cause the intake module to mix based on at least a supply air temperature set point the first air and the second air to form intake air and selectively cool the intake air to form supply air by at least one of causing the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air and causing the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool the intake air based on at least the supply air temperature set point. In various embodiments a controller may execute logic to evaluate conditions and determine instructions for assessing and controlling data center operating conditions. In various embodiments a data center intelligent control system is a computer based software system that gathers and analyzes data generates instructions and communicates instructions to the controller.

In another aspect a computer implemented method for controlling an air module can include generating by a controller a first instruction to cause an intake module to selectively mix based upon a supply air temperature set point first air and second air to form intake air generating by the controller a second instruction to selectively cool the intake air to form supply air wherein the second instruction includes at least one of instructions to cause an evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air and instructions to cause a mechanical cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air.

In another aspect a modular data center includes an air module. The air module can include an air module controller an air intake module configured to receive first air from a first air source and to receive second air from a second air source an evaporative cooling module in fluid communication with the air intake module and a mechanical cooling module in fluid communication with the evaporative cooling module. The air module controller can be configured to cause the intake module to mix the first air and the second air based on at least a supply air temperature set point to form intake air and the controller can be configured to form supply air by at least one of causing the evaporative cooling module to cool the intake air selectively based on at least the supply air temperature set point and causing the mechanical cooling module to cool the intake air selectively based on at least the supply air temperature set point. The modular data center can include one or more data center modules and a supply air conduit in fluid communication with the air module and a data center module of the one or more data center modules to carry supply air from the air module to the one or more data center modules.

In some embodiments the first air source is a source of return air. In some embodiments the second air source is a source of outside air.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form the supply air substantially from the first air if a temperature of the first air is less than the supply air temperature set point.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form the supply air by mixing the first air and the second air if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is less than or equal to the supply air temperature set point and a dew point of the second air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and greater than or equal to a lower limit of the dew point range.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form mixed air by mixing the first air and the second air if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is less than the first temperature a dew point of the second air is less than a lower limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is less than or equal to a wet bulb temperature corresponding to the supply air temperature set point at the lower limit of a dew point range and form the supply air by evaporatively cooling the mixed air with the evaporative cooling module.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the second air by evaporatively cooling the second air with the evaporative cooling module if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a dew point of the second air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is within an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the first air by mechanically cooling the first air with the mechanical cooling module if a dew point of the second air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range a dew point of the first air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point. In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the first air by mechanically cooling the first air with the mechanical cooling module if a wet bulb temperature of the second air is greater than or equal to an upper limit of an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range a dew point of the first air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the first air by mechanically cooling the first air with the mechanical cooling module if a dew point of the first air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range and a dew point of the second air is greater than the upper limit of a dew point range. In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the first air by mechanically cooling the first air with the mechanical cooling module if a dew point of the first air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is greater than or equal to an upper limit of an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form supply air substantially from the second air by evaporatively cooling the second air with the evaporative cooling module if a dew point of the first air is less than a lower limit of a dew point range a dew point of the second air is less than the lower limit of the dew point range a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is greater than the first temperature of the first air and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is less than a wet bulb temperature corresponding to the supply air temperature set point at the lower limit of the dew point range.

In some embodiments the controller is further configured to form mixed air by mixing the first air and the second air if the second temperature of the second air is greater than the first temperature of the first air a dew point of the first air is greater than a lower limit of a dew point range and a dew point of the second air is less than the lower limit the dew point range and to form the supply air by evaporatively cooling the mixed air with the evaporative cooling module.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to form the intake air substantially from the first air if a temperature of the first air is less than the supply air temperature set point.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to form the intake air by mixing the first air and the second air if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is less than or equal to the supply air temperature set point and a dew point of the second air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and greater than or equal to a lower limit of the dew point range.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to form intake air by mixing the first air and the second air wherein the second instruction includes instructions to cause the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is less than the first temperature a dew point of the second air is less than a lower limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is less than or equal to a wet bulb temperature corresponding to the supply air temperature set point at the lower limit of a dew point range.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from second air and the second instruction includes instructions to cause the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a dew point of the second air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is within an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from first air wherein the second instruction includes instructions to cause the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a dew point of the second air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range a dew point of the first air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point. In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from first air wherein the second instruction includes instructions to cause the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a wet bulb temperature of the second air is greater than or equal to an upper limit of an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range a dew point of the first air is less than or equal to an upper limit of a dew point range and a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from first air wherein the second instruction includes instructions to cause the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a dew point of the first air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range and a dew point of the second air is greater than the upper limit of a dew point range. In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from first air and the second instruction comprises instructions to cause the mechanical cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a dew point of the first air is greater than an upper limit of a dew point range and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is greater than or equal to an upper limit of an evaporative cooling wet bulb temperature range.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to create intake air substantially from second air and the second instruction includes instructions to cause the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if a dew point of the first air is less than a lower limit of a dew point range a dew point of the second air is less than the lower limit of the dew point range a first temperature of the first air is greater than the supply air temperature set point a second temperature of the second air is greater than the first temperature of the first air and a wet bulb temperature of the second air is less than a wet bulb temperature corresponding to the supply air temperature set point at the lower limit of the dew point range.

In some embodiments the first instruction includes instructions to form intake air by mixing the first air at a first temperature and the second air at a second temperature and the second instruction includes instructions to cause the evaporative cooling module to selectively cool based on the at least the supply air temperature set point the intake air if the second temperature of the second air is greater than the first temperature of the first air a dew point of the first air is greater than a lower limit of a dew point range and a dew point of the second air is less than the lower limit the dew point range.

In some embodiments the modular data center can include a data center module controller. In some embodiments the modular data center can include a data center module intake damper configured to control supply air entering the data center module from the supply air conduit. In some embodiments the data center module controller is configured to actuate the data center module intake damper based on at least one of a temperature and humidity of air in the data center module. In some embodiments the air module further includes a fan array. In some embodiments the air module controller is further configured to adjust an air flow of the fan array to maintain a substantially constant air pressure in the supply air conduit.

Described herein are modular data centers and methods of controlling the same. In some embodiments a data center can provide an operating environment for IT equipment such as servers storage devices networking devices power distribution equipment uninterruptible power supplies etc. For example a data center can facilitate cooling IT equipment which can generate heat when operating. In some embodiments a data center can include an air module and one or more data center modules e.g. data modules or other data center modules housed in a building e.g. in a large open space within the building . Air modules can intake air from the surrounding environment return air e.g. air from within the building housing the data center . Air modules can intake air from the outdoors outside air e.g. via a duct connected to the exterior of the building housing the data center . Air modules can condition return air outside air and or a mixture thereof to provide to the data modules. Air modules can be connected to data modules via ducts pipes or other conduits to provide conditioned air supply air to the data modules. Within the data modules heat energy can be transferred from IT equipment to air. Air within the data modules can be exhausted from the data modules via vents ducts pipes or other conduits. Air within the data modules can be exhausted from the data modules via vents ducts pipes or other conduits connected to one or more air modules. Air can be exhausted from the data modules into the surrounding environment e.g. into the building housing the data center . In some embodiments the supply air from the air modules can be at a lower temperature than the air within the data modules. When the supply air enters the data module it can be used to cool IT equipment. As a result of cooling IT equipment within the data module return air can be at an elevated temperature. In some embodiments air modules can cool and or heat the return air before providing it to the data modules as supply air.

As will be described in greater detail below an air module can use different techniques to provide supply air at a desired temperature and or humidity. For example the air module can selectively mix return air with outside air to form intake air and or supply air. The air module can selectively utilize evaporative cooling e.g. direct or indirect evaporative cooling to cool intake air and or change its humidity. The air module can utilize a fluid based heat exchanger e.g. mechanical cooling or a cooling coil to cool intake air. The air module can utilize a dehumidifier to reduce the humidity of intake air. The air module can utilize a heater to heat intake air. In some embodiments selective use of these different techniques can increase the efficiency of the air module providing supply air e.g. by using less power to provide supply air to the data modules at a desired temperature and or humidity .

Air modules can provide supply air to data modules via supply conduit . In some embodiments air modules pressurize the supply air in supply air conduit and sub floor spaces creating a pressure differential between the air pressure in the supply air conduit sub floor spaces and the surrounding environment. The pressure differential can cause air e.g. supply air to flow from air modules to data modules air to flow through data modules and air to flow from data modules to the surrounding environment.

Data center is an exemplary data center utilizing the disclosed technology. Other configurations are contemplated. For example the number of air modules and data modules can be increased or decreased depending on the amount of cooling required by IT equipment. As another example air modules and data modules can be placed outdoors.

In various embodiments controller may execute logic to evaluate conditions and determine instructions for assessing and controlling data center operating conditions. In various embodiments a data center intelligent control system a DCICS is a computer based software system that gathers and analyzes data generates instructions and communicates instructions to the controller. The DCICS optimizes data centers and data center operations by for example collecting monitoring analyzing warehousing and mining data analyzing and predicting using proprietary algorithms forecasts simulations and models to develop alternative data center configurations and processes optimizing by analyzing a plurality of optimization dimensions and developing and evaluating alternative optimization actions and generating and implementing optimization instructions.

Various embodiments of this disclosure include the DCICS monitoring analyzing and controlling data centers and related hardware and software for example by exchanging data with a controller e.g. controller and or sending control instructions to a controller. In various embodiments a DCICS determines based upon a first expression a first operation and data collection points associated with data center assets. Data collection points may include sensors indicators detectors application programming interfaces system data etc. In various embodiments the expression may be obtained from a data base a user interface another system a hardware device etc. DCICS interprets and or analyzes the expression and generates machine code instructions executes the machine code instructions to produce a result of the first operation. examines or analyzes the result and determines a control instruction and at least one of executes the control instruction partially executes the control instruction and or communicates the control instruction to a controller a hardware device or software program for execution. More information regarding DCICS and related software applications can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 788 834 filed on Mar. 7 2013 and entitled DATA CENTER INTELLIGENT CONTROL AND OPTIMIZATION the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference it its entirety.

In some embodiments one or more of air modules can be in operating mode and one or more of air modules can be in a standby mode. The controllers in each air module e.g. controller in air module can negotiate to determine the operating standby state of each air module. Air modules that are in standby mode can be switched to operating mode by their controllers. In some embodiments where one or more of air modules are in standby mode the operating standby mode of each air module can be rotated on a periodic basis e.g. monthly to exercise and equalize runtime of air modules . In the event that one of air modules fails another one of air modules can be changed from standby to operating mode.

In some embodiments if one or more of air modules in operating mode fail the remaining air modules in operating mode can increase conditioned air output to compensate for the one or more of air modules that fail.

Fan array can include blowers . Blowers can be arranged in a matrix e.g. a 3 3 matrix of blowers . The speed of blowers e.g. how fast the fan blade in each blower rotates can be controlled by variable frequency drive VFD . Controller can send a signal to VFD to increase or decrease the speed at which blowers operate. Each of blowers can include backdraft dampers . In some embodiments a VFD can be included for each blower.

In some embodiments controller can cause VFD for fan array to start blowers . Controller can open discharge supply damper when the blowers are running. Controller can monitor the open closed position of discharge supply damper . Controller can report a discharge damper alarm condition if discharge supply damper fails to open or close when instructed to by controller .

In some embodiments each blower includes a piezometer ring sensor and CFM transducer collectively CFM sensor for measuring air flow through each blower . Controller can monitor the airflow rate e.g. in CFM of each blower using the CFM sensor. Controller can adjust the speed of blowers using VFD to maintain a desired total airflow rate at the discharge supply duct of air module . In some embodiments all of blowers can operate at the same speed. In some embodiments some of blowers can operate at different speeds than others of blowers .

As illustrated data center of can include static pressure sensors in supply air conduit to measure static air pressure at the location of static pressure sensors . Controller can monitor static pressure in supply air conduit via static pressure sensors . In some embodiments static pressure sensors can be used for redundancy. In the event that one of static pressure sensors reports a static pressure significantly different than the other static pressure sensors controller can report a failed sensor alarm and disregard the output of the failed static pressure sensor .

In some embodiments Controller can set an airflow setpoint for fan array causing blowers to maintain airflow at or about the airflow setpoint in order to maintain a desired static pressure in supply air conduit e.g. the pressure setpoint can be 0.5 to 1.5 IWG .

As illustrated data center of can include closing plate static pressure sensor . Closing plate static pressure sensor can be placed in the sub floor space of the data module furthest from the air module e.g. subfloor space of data module . Controller can monitor the static pressure in subfloor space via closing plate static pressure sensor . Controller can send an alarm if the static pressure at the location of the closing plate static pressure sensor falls below a predetermined static pressure e.g. 0.5 IWG .

In some embodiments if the static pressure measured by supply static pressure sensor in discharge supply duct exceeds a predetermined static pressure setpoint e.g. 3.0 IWG relief damper e.g. an adjustable barometric relief damper can open to relieve excess supply air into the surrounding environment to protect air module supply air conduit and other aspects of data center .

In some embodiments upon detecting a loss of airflow at any of blowers via the CFM sensor controller can report a blower failure alarm. Backdraft damper on failed blower can automatically close to prevent reverse airflow through failed blower . Controller can signal VFD to increase the speed of the remaining operating blowers to maintain the required total CFM discharged by fan array .

In some embodiments controller can monitor the status of VFD and the amperage draw of fan array via the VFD . Upon detecting a failure of VFD controller can report a VFD failure alarm switch VFD into bypass mode and energize a sufficient number of blowers at full speed to maintain the required total CFM discharged by fan array .

In some embodiments if fan array cannot deliver a predetermined minimum airflow rate air module can be considered failed. Controller can report an airflow failure alarm deenergize air module e.g. shut down air intake module filtration module evaporative cooling module DX cooling module and fan array close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

In some embodiments upon detecting smoke in discharge supply duct via smoke detector smoke detector can report the presence of smoke e.g. an alarm can be reported to a building fire alarm system . Controller can report a smoke detection warning close outside air intake damper and open return air intake dampers to determine whether the smoke is coming from the outside air. If after a pre determined amount of time e.g. 30 seconds smoke detector continues to detect smoke controller can report a smoke shutdown alarm deenergize air module close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

As described above air module can include DX cooling module . In some embodiments DX cooling modules can be fluid based e.g. coolant etc. . In some embodiments any mechanical refrigeration can be used e.g. chilled water based mechanical refrigeration . As illustrated in DX cooling module includes coil bank and coil bank . Each coil bank can include two coil circuits. A first condenser not shown can supply coil bank with coolant e.g. provide mechanical refrigeration for coil bank and a second condenser not shown can supply coil bank with coolant e.g. provide mechanical refrigeration for coil bank .

Upon determining a need for mechanical refrigeration as described below controller can enable the first and second condensing units e.g. in sequence or approximately simultaneously .

Controller can monitor conditions at each condensing unit via a communication interface e.g. MODBUS . For example controller can monitor the following conditions at each condensing unit Saturated suction temperature SST for each coil circuit discharge pressure for each coil circuit suction pressure for each coil circuit compressor on off status and condensing unit alarm state. In some embodiments if a condensing unit is in an alarm state controller can report a condensing unit failure.

Controller can set a leaving air temperature set point for each of coil banks . In some embodiments the leaving air temperature set point can be determined as described below. In some embodiments an integral microprocessor controller in each condensing unit can cycle the refrigerant liquid line solenoid valves and sequence the operation of the compressors and condenser fans to maintain leaving air at the leaving air temperature set point.

In some embodiments upon the SST of the refrigerant in a coil bank exceeding a predetermined maximum allowable SST e.g. 54 F. for more than a predetermined amount of time e.g. 10 minutes controller can gradually lower the leaving air temperature set point until the SST is at or below the maximum allowable SST.

In some embodiments air module includes cooling coil bypass . Cooling coil bypass can be a duct pipe or other conduit. In the illustrated embodiment cooling coil bypass permits air to bypass coil banks e.g. not pass through and or be cooled by coil banks . Air module can include actuated bypass damper . In some embodiments controller can control the opening and closing of actuated bypass damper . Air module can include bypass damper .

In some embodiments controller can control actuated bypass damper to mix non refrigerated air e.g. air that does not pass through coil banks with refrigerated air e.g. air that passes through coil banks to maintain a supply air temperature in discharge supply duct at a predetermined supply air temperature e.g. 75 F. . Supply temperature and humidity sensor can measure the temperature of supply air in discharge supply air duct . Controller can monitor the position e.g. amount open of actuated bypass damper and can report a damper failure alarm if the position of actuated bypass damper deviates from the position instructed by controller .

In some embodiments actuated bypass damper is not opened beyond a point where a differential static pressure across cooling coil banks falls below a predetermined pressure e.g. 0.30 IWG which can correspond to a face velocity across coil banks .

If actuated bypass damper is open to the coil face velocity limit e.g. differential static pressure across cooling coil banks is at the limit above and the air temperature in discharge supply duct falls below the predetermined supply air temperature e.g. 75 F. controller can activate return air duct heater . In some embodiments return air duct heater can include 5 heating cycles with each heating cycle providing increased heating. Controller can modulate the first stage of return air duct heater and can cycle stages thru in sequence as required to maintain the supply air temperature at the predetermined supply air temperature e.g. 75 F. . In some embodiments if return air duct heater fails to operate e.g. as sensed by a current transformer on the power leads of return air duct heater controller can report an electric heater failure alarm.

In some embodiments if controller senses via supply temperature and humidity sensor in discharge supply duct a supply air dry bulb temperature in excess of a predetermined maximum temperature e.g. 78 F. for more than a predetermined amount of time e.g. 15 minutes indicating a cooling system failure controller can report a high supply air temperature alarm deenergize air module close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

In some embodiments if controller senses via supply temperature and humidity sensor in discharge supply duct a supply air dry bulb temperature below a predetermined minimum temperature e.g. 68 F. for more than a predetermined amount of time e.g. 15 minutes indicating a failure of the module to limit the amount of cooling controller can report a low supply air temperature alarm deenergize air module close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

Controller can compute the supply air dew point temperature or dew point in discharge supply duct . For example controller can use the atmospheric pressure at the location of data center and the supply air dry bulb temperature and relative humidity as determined by supply temperature and humidity sensor . If a supply air dew point temperature is below a predetermined minimum dew point temperature e.g. 35 F. DP indicating a humidification failure controller can report a low supply air dew point temperature alarm deenergize air module close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

If a supply air dew point temperature is above a predetermined maximum dew point temperature e.g. 62 F. DP indicating an evaporative cooler control failure controller can report a high supply air dew point temperature alarm deenergize air module close discharge supply damper close return air intake dampers close outside air intake damper and or change one of air modules that is in standby mode to operating mode.

Evaporative cooling module can include multiple e.g. evaporative cooling stages. In some embodiments the greater number of stages enabled can result in greater evaporative cooling of air. Controller can enable and disable evaporative cooling module . In some embodiments controller can control the number of enabled or active stages of evaporative cooling module . An integral controller within evaporative cooling module can start the recirculation pump energize the UV water sterilization system control the make up water solenoid valve cycle the drain valve based on conductivity and open the required quantity of staging manifold valves to enable evaporative cooling stages.

Controller can monitor the evaporative cooling module via a communication interface e.g. MODBUS . For example controller can monitor open closed position of each manifold valve high reservoir level alarm pump on off status and water conductivity. Upon sensing high reservoir level pump failure or excessive water conductivity controller can send a high reservoir level alarm or a pump failure alarm.

In some embodiments controller can sense via leak detector for water on the floor of air module and can send a water on floor alarm.

Air modules can operate in different modes based on various environmental conditions. In some embodiments air modules can operate with greater efficiency by operating in different modes. As described in greater detail below return air and outside air can be selectively mixed to form intake air and or supply air. Evaporative and or mechanical cooling can be applied to intake air to form supply air.

In some embodiments as discussed below the controller can apply one or more tests or logic functions to select the appropriate mode for mixing and cooling intake air to form supply air based on one or more parameters including return air temperature Tradb e.g. air that air module intakes through return air intake dampers outside air temperature Tosadb e.g. air that air module intakes through return air intake dampers dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp and dew point temperature of the return air Tradp . The return air temperature Tradb and dew point temperature of the return air Tradp may be measured or calculated in any suitable manner including by return air temperature and humidity sensor . Similarly the outside air temperature Tosadb and dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp may be measured or calculated in any suitable manner including by a temperature and humidity sensor at the outside air intake damper and or intake temperature and humidity sensor . Additional parameters described below used for selecting the mode of operation can be measured with sensors or calculated by the controller using thermodynamic functions curves and limits.

In some embodiments controller can estimate the temperature rise across fan array e.g. the amount fan array increases the temperature of air flowing through it based on a total fan motor power of blowers and an air density ratio at the location of data center as follows 

In some embodiments controller can maintain the temperature of the air entering fan array at the predetermined supply air temperature e.g. 75 F. minus the fan array temperature rise as follows 

In some embodiments when the return air temperature Tradb is less than or equal to Tefdb controller can fully open return air intake dampers and fully close outside air intake damper . Controller can modulate the first stage of return air duct heater and or can cycle stages thru in sequence to maintain an average air temperature equal to Tefdb downstream of air filters . If return air duct heater fails to operate e.g. as sensed by a current transformer on the power leads of return air duct heater power leads controller can report an electric heater failure alarm. Controller can disable evaporative cooler module and close the solenoid valves in evaporative cooling module .

In some embodiments when the return air temperature Tradb is greater than Tefdb the outside air temperature Tosadb is less than or equal to Tefdb the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp does not exceed a predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. and the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp is not less than a predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. controller can mix outside air with return air to achieve a mixed air temperature equal to Tefdb as sensed by intake air temperature and humidity sensor . If necessary controller can enable the DX cooling module . Controller can disable evaporative cooling module and close the solenoid valves in evaporative cooling module . Controller can disable return air duct heater .

In some embodiments when the return air temperature Tradb is greater than Tefdb the temperature of the outside air Tosadb is less than or equal to the return air temperature Tradb the dew point temperature of the outside air is less than a predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. and the wet bulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is less than or equal to Tllwb controller can mix outside air with return air to achieve a lower limit mixed air enthalpy entering evaporative cooling module corresponding to Tefdb at a dew point temperature of the predetermined low dew point setpoint e.g. 41.9 F. as sensed by intake air temperature and humidity sensor .

Tllwb Lower Limit of Outside Air Wet Bulb Temperature for Evaporative Cooling Psychrometrically Calculated at Tefdb with a predetermined low dew point setpoint e.g. 41.9 F. 

a Controller can predict wet bulb temperature of the mixed air entering evaporative cooling module using the following formulas 

hll Psychrometrically Calculated Lower Limit Enthalpy of Mixed Air Air at Tefdb and 41.9 F. Dew point Temperature

Wra41.9 Psychrometrically Calculated Humidity Ratio of the Return Air at Tradb and e.g. 41.9 F. Dew point Temperature

b Controller can predict temperature possible through an active stage of evaporative cooling assuming 80 efficiency using the following formula 

c Controller can predict the number of active evaporative cooling stages required assuming a total of 5 stages of evaporative cooling to achieve a leaving air dry bulb temperature equal to Tefdb using the following formula 

Controller can determine the required number of evaporative cooler stages to use by the following formula 

Stages Calculated Number of Evaporative Cooler Valves to Open Stages of Evaporative Cooler to Energize 

e Controller can enable evaporative cooling module and engage the quantity of evaporative cooler stages calculated above.

f Controller can mix outside air with return air to achieve a mixed air temperature equal to Tefdb as sensed by intake air temperature and humidity sensor .

In some embodiments when the return air temperature Tradb is greater than Tefdb the temperature of the outside air Tosadb is greater than Tefdb the wet bulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is less than Tulwb the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp does not exceed a predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. and the wet bulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is greater than Tllwb controller can fully open outside air intake damper and fully close return air intake dampers .

Tulwb Upper Limit of Outside Air Wet Bulb Temperature for Evaporative Cooling Psychrometrically Calculated at Tradb with a predetermined high dew point setpoint e.g. 59 F. 

dew point a Controller can predict the temperature possible through an active stage of the evaporative cooling module assuming 80 efficiency using the following formula 

b Controller shall predict the number of active evaporative cooling stages required assuming a total of 5 stages of evaporative cooling to achieve a leaving air dry bulb temperature equal to Tefdb using the following formula 

c Controller can predict the number of active evaporative cooling stages required assuming 5 stages of evaporative cooling to limit the mixed air leaving air dew point temperature to a predetermined high dew point setpoint e.g. 59 F. using the following formula 

Evapfracw Calculated Fraction of Airflow Through evaporative cooling module to Limit Mixed Air Dew point Temperature to a predetermined high dew point setpoint e.g. 59 F. 

Wevap Psychrometrically Calculated Humidity Ratio of the Air Leaving the Active Evaporative Cooler Stages at Tevapdb and Tosawb

Wosa Psychrometrically Calculated Humidity Ratio of the Air Leaving the Inactive Evaporative Cooler Stages at Tosadb and Tosawb

W59 Psychrometrically Calculated Humidity Ratio at a predetermined high dew point setpoint e.g. 59 F. 

d Controller can determine the appropriate number of evaporative cooling stages to use by the following formula 

Stages Calculated Number of Evaporative Cooler Valves to Open Stages of Evaporative Cooler to Energize 

e Controller can predict the mixed air dry bulb temperature leaving the evaporative cooling module when evaporatively cooled air passing though the active evaporative cooling stages is mixed with outside air passing through the inactive stages using the following formula 

f Controller can predict the mixed air humidity ratio leaving evaporative cooling module when evaporatively cooled air passing though the active stages is mixed with untreated outside air passing through the inactive stages using the following formula 

g Controller can enable the evaporative cooler module and open the quantity of evaporative cooler stage valves calculated above.

In some embodiments if the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp is greater than a predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. or if the wetbulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is greater than or equal to Tulwb and additionally the dew point temperature of the return air Tradp is less than or equal to the predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. and the return air temperature Tradb is greater than Tefdb controller can fully open return air intake dampers and fully close outside air intake damper . Controller can enable Mechanical Refrigeration as described above. Controller can disable evaporative cooling module and close the solenoid valves on all of the evaporative cooler stages.

In some embodiments if the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp is greater than a predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. or the wetbulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is greater than or equal to Tulwb and additionally the dew point temperature of the return air Tradp is greater than the predetermined high dew point setpoint DP UL e.g. 59 F. controller can fully open return air intake dampers and fully close outside air intake damper .

a Controller can enable the first condensing unit if not already enabled and can reset the leaving air temperature of coil bank to maintain a leaving coil temperature of a predetermined temperature e.g. 58 F. .

b Controller can control the second condensing unit coil bank actuated bypass damper and return air duct heater as described above to maintain the supply air temperature at a predetermined supply air temperature e.g. 75 F. .

In some embodiments if the dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp is less than the predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. the dew point temperature of the return air Tradp is less than the predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. the temperature of the outside air Tosadb is greater than the return air temperature Tradb the return air temperature Tradb is greater than Tefdb and the wet bulb temperature of the outside air Tosawb is less than Tllwb controller can enable one stage of the evaporative cooler module . Controller can fully close outside air intake damper and fully open return air intake dampers .

In some embodiments if the temperature of the outside air Tosadb is greater than the return air temperature Tradb the dew point temperature of the return air Tradp is greater than or equal to the predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. and dew point temperature of the outside air Tosadp is less than the predetermined low dew point setpoint DP LL e.g. 41.9 F. controller can mix outside air with return air to achieve a mixed air temperature equal to Tefdb as sensed by intake air temperature and humidity sensor . Controller can enable the evaporative cooler module and open the quantity of evaporative cooler stage valves calculated above. Controller can enable the DX cooling module if necessary

In some embodiments controller can control gravity relief hoods not shown in the building housing data center . Controller can modulate the dampers in the gravity relief hoods in conjunction with outside air intake damper to manage the air pressure within the building housing data center . For example the gravity relief hoods can be closed when outside air intake damper is closed. The gravity relief hoods can be open when outside air intake damper is open. Controller can monitor the position of each damper in the gravity relief hoods and report a damper failure alarm for any damper position that deviates the position instructed by controller .

Controller can monitor the differential pressure across air filters via filter air pressure sensor . In some embodiments if the differential pressure drops across air filters by more than a predetermined amount e.g. 0.75 IWG controller can send a dirty filter alarm.

In some embodiments data module includes controller . Controller can open return air damper when data module is in use e.g. when data module contains running IT equipment . Controller can monitor the position of return air damper and report an alarm condition if it deviates from the position the position instructed by controller . Return air damper can permit air to be exhausted from data module into the surrounding environment.

In some embodiments data module can include temperature and humidity sensors and . In some embodiments temperature and humidity sensors can be in cold aisle . Temperature and humidity sensors can be in hot aisle . Separator can facilitate separating cold aisle and hot aisle . In some embodiments zones can be formed in cold aisle or hot aisle . For example a first half of cold aisle can be designated as Zone A and include first temperature and humidity sensors and a second half of cold aisle can be designated as Zone B and include second temperature and humidity sensors . Hot aisle can include similar zones and temperature and humidity sensor placement. Controller can modulate supply air damper in zone A to maintain a hot aisle temperature of a predetermined hot aisle temperature setpoint e.g. 100 F. in Zone A. Controller can modulate supply air damper in Zone B to maintain a hot aisle temperature of a predetermined hot aisle temperature setpoint e.g. 100 F. in Zone B. In some embodiments if the hot aisle temperature in Zone A or Zone B cannot be maintained at or below a predetermined hot aisle temperature setpoint e.g. 100 F. after fully opening supply air damper controller can report a cooling failure alarm.

In some embodiments controller can monitor the position of supply air damper and report an alarm condition if it deviates from the position instructed by controller .

In some embodiments if controller fails return air damper and supply air damper can fail in the last instructed position.

In some embodiments controller can monitor the cold aisle temperature and humidity. If the temperature rises above a predetermined cold aisle maximum temperature setpoint e.g. 78 F. controller can override the supply damper modulation and control it to bring the cold aisle temperature to a predetermined cold aisle temperature set point e.g. 75 F. . If the temperature remains above the predetermined cold aisle maximum temperature setpoint e.g. 78 F. controller can report an alarm. In some embodiments if the dew point temperature in cold aisle or hot aisle is above a maximum dew point setpoint e.g. 59 F. or below a minimum dew point temperature set point e.g. 42 F. controller can report an alarm.

In some embodiments if smoke is detected within data module controller can report an alarm. Controller can fully close return air damper and supply air damper before a clean agent is released from fire suppression tanks.

As described above sub floor space can be pressurized by one or more air modules. A portion of the supply air can flow through supply air damper into cold aisle as a result of a pressure differential between sub floor space and cold aisle . Air can flow through IT equipment removing heat from IT equipment and into hot aisle . Air from hot aisle can be exhausted through return damper .

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the technology by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The technology has been described in terms of particular embodiments. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the technology can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

