---

title: Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511052&OS=09511052&RS=09511052
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09511052
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
This application is a 371 National Stage Application of PCT US2013 050427 filed on 15 Jul. 2013 which claims benefit of provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 61 673 615 filed 19 Jul. 2012 and provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 61 673 592 filed 19 Jul. 2012 both herein incorporated by reference.

The Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR is a nuclear hormone receptor that is activated by aldosterone and regulates the expression of many genes involved in electrolyte homeostasis and cardiovascular disease. Increased circulating aldosterone increases blood pressure through its effects on natriuresis with potentially additional effects on the brain heart and vasculature. In addition hyperaldosteronism has been linked to many pathophysiological processes resulting in renal and cardiovascular disease. While hyperaldosteronism is commonly caused by aldosterone producing adenomas resistant hypertensive patients frequently suffer from increased aldosterone levels often termed as Aldosterone Breakthrough as a result of increases in serum potassium or residual AT1R activity. Hyperaldosteronism and aldosterone breakthrough typically results in increased MR activity and MR antagonists have been shown to be effective as anti hypertensive agents and also in the treatment of heart failure and primary hyperaldosteronism.

In addition in visceral tissues such as the kidney and the gut MR regulates sodium retention potassium excretion and water balance in response to aldosterone. MR expression in the brain also appears to play a role in the control of neuronal excitability in the negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and in the cognitive aspects of behavioral performance Castren et al. J. of Neuroendocrinology 3 461 66 1993 .

Eplerenone and spironolactone are two MR antagonists that have been shown to be efficacious in treating cardiovascular disease particularly hypertension and heart failure RALES Investigators 1999 The Effect of Spironolactone on Morbidity and Mortality in Patients with Severe Heart Failure N. Engl. J. Med. 1999 341 10 709 717 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS investigator 2003 Eplerenone a Selective Aldosterone Blocker in Patients with Left Ventricular Dysfunction After Myocardial Infarction N. Engl. J. Med. 348 14 1309 1321 Funder J W. 2010 Eplerenone in Chronic Renal Disease the EVALUATE trial Hypertens. Res. 33 6 539 40. . Moreover multiple studies have shown that treatment with spironolactone or eplerenone significantly lower systolic blood pressure in mild moderate obese systolic PHA and resistant hypertensive patients Calhoun D A et al. 2008 Effectiveness of the Selective Aldosterone Blocker Eplerenone in Patients with Resistant Hypertension J. Am. Soc. Hypertens. 2008 November December 2 6 462 8 Huang B S et al. 2010 Central Neuronal Activation and Pressor Responses Induced by Circulating ANG II role of the brain aldosterone ouabain pathway Am. J. Physiol. Heart. Circ. Physiol. 2 H422 30 The RALES Investigators. 1996 Effectiveness of Spironolactone added to an Angiotensin converting enzyme Inhibitor and a Loop Diuretic for Severe Chronic Congestive Heart Failure The Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study RALES Am. J. Cardiol. 1996 78 902 907 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS Investigators Serum potassium and clinical outcomes in the Eplerenone Post Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study EPHESUS Circulation 2008 Oct. 14 118 16 1643 50 Bomback A S et al. 2009 Low dose spironolactone added to long term ACE inhibitor therapy reduces blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in obese patients with hypertensive target organ damage Clin. Nephrol. 72 6 449 56 Williams J S Hypertension spironolactone and resistant hypertension Nat. Rev. Endocrinol. 2010 May 6 5 248 50 Nishizaka M K et al. The role of aldosterone antagonists in the management of resistant hypertension. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2005 October 7 5 343 7. Review Gaddam K et al. 2010 Rapid reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy and intracardiac volume overload in patients with resistant hypertension and hyperaldosteronism a prospective clinical study Hypertension 55 5 1137 42 Zannad F et al. 2010 Rationale and design of the Eplerenone in Mild Patients Hospitalization And Survival Study in Heart Failure EMPHASIS HF Eur. J. Heart Fail. 12 6 617 22 .

Evidence in preclinical models also suggest that MR antagonists would be efficacious in treating the metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis Takai S. et al 2005 Eplerenone inhibits atherosclerosis in nonhuman primates. Hypertension. 46 5 1135 9 Tirosh A. et al. G K. 2010 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the metabolic syndrome. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2010 August 12 4 252 7 .

There is also evidence that MR antagonists may be efficacious in treating retinopathy. Zhao et. al 2012 Mineralocorticoid receptor is involved in rat and human ocular chorioretinopathy The Journal of Clinical Investigation Vol. 122 7 2672 .

There is also evidence that MR antagonists may be efficacious in treating obstructive sleep apnea which is usually associated with cardiac disease. Clark D. et al. Resistant Hypertension an Aldosterone An Update Canadian Journal of Cardiology 2012 Vol 28 pp 318 325 .

Also published PCT application WO 2002 17895 disclosed that aldosterone antagonists may be useful in the treatment of subjects suffering from one or more cognitive dysfunctions including but not limited to psychoses cognitive disorders such as memory disturbances mood disorders such as depression and bipolar disorder anxiety disorders and personality disorders.

Elevation in aldosterone levels or excess stimulation of mineralocorticoid receptors is linked to several physiological disorders or pathologic disease states including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels. Hadley M. E. ENDOCRINOLOGY 2Ed. pp. 366 81 1988 and Brilla et al. Journal of Molecular and Cellular Cardiology 25 5 pp. 563 75 1993 . Compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions which act as MR antagonists may be of value in the treatment of any of the above conditions.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure the current standard of care is suboptimal and there is a clear unmet medical need for additional therapeutic pharmacological interventions. This invention addresses those needs by providing compounds and compositions which may be useful for the treatment or prevention of hypertension heart failure other cardiovascular disorders and other aldosterone disorders.

The present invention relates to compounds which have Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR antagonist activity which may be valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy and prophylaxis of diseases for example for treating aldosterone mediated disorders including cardiovascular disease. The present invention is directed to compounds of the Formula I 

Each Ris independently H C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl heteroaryl or aryl said alkyl cycloalkyl or heteroaryl may be optionally substituted with aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl 

Each Ris independently C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or aryl said alkyl cycloalkyl and aryl are optionally substituted with one to three C Ccycloalkyl or halo substituents 

As used herein except where noted alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl means carbocycles containing no heteroatoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl decahydronaphthyl and the like. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification e.g. methyl may be represented by conventional abbreviations including Me or CHor a symbol that is an extended bond without defined terminal group e.g.

 Alkenyl unless otherwise indicated means carbon chains which contain at least one carbon carbon double bond and which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof. Examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to vinyl allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like. The term cycloalkenyl means carbocycles containing no heteroatoms having at least one carbon carbon double bond.

The term alkynyl refers to a hydrocarbon radical straight branched or cyclic containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least one carbon to carbon triple bond. Up to three carbon carbon triple bonds may be present. Thus C Calkynyl means an alkynyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl 3 methylbutynyl and so on. The straight branched or cyclic portion of the alkynyl group may contain triple bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkynyl group is indicated.

 Aryl unless otherwise indicated means mono and bicyclic aromatic rings containing 6 12 carbon atoms. Examples of aryl include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl indenyl and the like. Aryl also includes monocyclic rings fused to an aryl group. Examples include tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl and the like. The preferred aryl is phenyl.

 Heteroaryl unless otherwise indicated means a mono or bicyclic aromatic ring or ring system having 5 to 10 atoms and containing at least one heteroatom selected from O S and N. Examples include but are not limited to pyrrolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl pyridinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl furanyl triazinyl thienyl pyrimidyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and the like. Heteroaryl also includes aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to heterocycles that are non aromatic or partially aromatic and aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to cycloalkyl rings. Additional examples of heteroaryls include but are not limited to indazolyl thienopyrazolyl imidazopyridazinyl pyrazolopyrazolyl pyrazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazothiazolyl. Heteroaryl also includes such groups in charged form e.g. pyridinium. In an embodiment heteroaryl is oxadiazolyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl and imidazolyl

 Heterocyclyl unless otherwise indicated means a 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic saturated ring containing at least one heteroatom selected from N S and O in which the point of attachment may be carbon or nitrogen. Examples of heterocyclyl include but are not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl oxazolidinyl imidazolidinyl 2 3 dihydrofuro 2 3 b pyridyl benzoxazinyl and the like. The term also includes partially unsaturated monocyclic rings that are not aromatic such as 2 or 4 pyridones attached through the nitrogen or N substituted 1H 3H pyrimidine 2 4 diones N substituted uracils . Heterocyclyl moreover includes such moieties in charged form e.g. piperidinium. In an embodiment heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and oxazolidinyl.

 Halogen or halo unless otherwise indicated includes fluorine fluoro chlorine chloro bromine bromo and iodine iodo . In one embodiment halo is fluorine or chlorine.

By oxo is meant the functional group O which is an oxygen atom connected to the molecule via a double bond such as for example 1 C O that is a carbonyl group 2 S O that is a sulfoxide group and 3 N O that is an N oxide group such as pyridyl N oxide.

Unless expressly stated to the contrary substitution by a named substituent is permitted on any atom in a ring e.g. aryl a heteroaryl ring or a saturated heterocyclic ring provided such ring substitution is chemically allowed and results in a stable compound. A stable compound is a compound which can be prepared and isolated and whose structure and properties remain or can be caused to remain essentially unchanged for a period of time sufficient to allow use of the compound for the purposes described herein e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic administration to a subject .

When any variable e.g. R R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent or in Formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

Under standard nomenclature used throughout this disclosure the terminal portion of the designated side chain is described first followed by the adjacent functionality toward the point of attachment. For example a Calkylcarbonylamino Calkyl substituent is equivalent to

In choosing compounds of the present invention one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various substituents i.e. R R etc. are to be chosen in conformity with well known principles of chemical structure connectivity and stability.

The term substituted shall be deemed to include multiple degrees of substitution by a named substituent. Where multiple substituent moieties are disclosed or claimed the substituted compound can be independently substituted by one or more of the disclosed or claimed substituent moieties singly or plurally. By independently substituted it is meant that the two or more substituents can be the same or different.

Where a substituent or variable has multiple definitions it is understood that the substituent or variable is defined as being selected from the group consisting of the indicated definitions.

Compounds of structural Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention is meant to comprise all such isomeric forms of the compounds of structural Formula I.

Compounds of structural Formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by for example fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent for example methanol or ethyl acetate or a mixture thereof or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration.

Alternatively any stereoisomer or isomers of a compound of the general structural Formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereoisomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereoisomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

For compounds described herein which contain olefinic double bonds unless specified otherwise they are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Some of the compounds described herein may exist as tautomers which have different points of attachment of hydrogen accompanied by one or more double bond shifts. For example a ketone and its enol form are keto enol tautomers. The individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed with compounds of the present invention.

In the compounds of structural Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominately found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of structural Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H also denoted as D . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within structural Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates. Thus the present invention covers isotopically enriched compounds including deuterated compounds.

The present invention includes all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have S configuration or R configuration. The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at the stage of the compounds of the Formula I or at the stage of an intermediate during the synthesis. The present invention also includes all tautomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I.

The present invention includes all atropisomer forms of the compounds of Formula I. Atropisomers are stereoisomers resulting from hindered rotation about single bonds where the steric strain barrier to rotation is high enough to allow for the isolation of the conformers. Atropisomers display axial chirality. Separation of atropisomers is possibly by chiral resolution methods such as selective crystallization.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations.

Solvates and the hydrates of the compounds of structural Formula I are included in the present invention as well.

If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The terms pharmaceutically acceptable salt s and physiologically acceptable salt s are intended to have the same meaning and are used interchangeably herein.

Each Ris independently H C Calkyl said alkyl may be optionally substituted with aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl 

Each Ris independently C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or aryl said alkyl cycloalkyl and aryl are optionally substituted with 1 to 3 C Ccycloalkyl or halo substituents 

In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl or C O NH said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three CF OR CN or halo substituents. In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl or C O NH said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three OR or halo substituents. In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three OR or halo substituents.

In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three halo substituents. In an embodiment Ris ethyl substituted with one to three halo atoms at the terminal carbon. In a further embodiment Ris ethyl CHCFH or CHCF. In another embodiment Ris ethyl.

In an embodiment Ris aryl XIn an embodiment Ris phenyl X. In an embodiment t is the integer 1. In an embodiment Ris

In an embodiment Ris NRS O R. In an embodiment Ris NHS O R. In another embodiment Ris NHS O Rand Ris C Calkyl.

In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl or C Ccycloalkyl said alkyl and cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted with one to three C Ccycloalkyl or halo substituents. In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one to three C Ccycloalkyl or halo substituents.

Each Ris independently H C Calkyl said alkyl may be optionally substituted with aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl 

Each Ris independently C Calkyl said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three C Ccycloalkyl or halo substituents 

Another embodiment is a compound of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein Ris H or halo R is H or C Calkyl Ris C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by OH or C O NRR Ris C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by halo Ris phenyl CF Ris independently H C Calkyl and Ris independently C Calkyl.

The present invention also relates to processes for the preparation of the compounds of Formula I which are described in the following and by which the compounds of the invention are obtainable.

The compounds of the Formula I according to the invention competitively antagonize the aldosterone receptor MR and they may be therefore useful agents for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders related to increased aldosterone levels. The ability for the compounds of Formula I to antagonize MR can be examined for example in the activity assay described herein below.

Although other aldosterone antagonists have been previously disclosed the instant invention is directed to compounds that have shown some unexpected properties such as improved photo stability increased potency improved selectivity towards other nuclear hormone receptors reduced inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes improved PXR selectivity and or good metabolic stability and PK profiles. For example Compound 31 which has a fluorine to the indazole ring had excellent metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Moreover Compound 31 exhibited a good PK profile in rats

One aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the possible use in a method of treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the possible use as an anti hypertensive agent in a human or animal.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating cardiovascular disease heart failure hypertension atherosclerosis primary hyperaldosteronism or a related condition in a human or animal in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a possible method of treating metabolic syndrome in a mammal in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating retinopathy in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating obstructive sleep apnea in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a method of treating obstructive sleep apnea which is associated with cardiac diseases in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a possible method of treating a physiological or pathologic disease selected from including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating chronic kidney disease diabetic nephropathy or renal failure in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Compounds of the invention may be useful for treating both primary essential and secondary hypertension. Hypertensive conditions include but are not limited to systolic hypertension isolated systolic hypertension diastolic hypertension isolated diastolic hypertension renovascular hypertension endocrine disorder hypertension including hyperaldosteronism and pheochromocytoma malignant hypertension resistant hypertension pulmonary hypertension hypertension in obesity diabetes metabolic syndrome hypertension in heart failure hypertension in pregnancy and accelerated hypertension and prehypertension associated with any of these conditions.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a possible method of treating hypertension in an obese animal or human.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a possible method of treating hypertension in a diabetic animal or human.

Additionally another aspect of this invention is a possible use of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the preparation of a medicament useful for the treatment or prevention of one or more conditions selected form the group consisting of cardiovascular disease heart failure hypertension atherosclerosis primary hyperaldosteronism metabolic syndrome renal failure Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels.

The compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be administered to animals preferably to mammals and in particular to humans as pharmaceuticals by themselves in mixtures with one another or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. As used herein animals also includes companion animals such as cats and dogs. In an embodiment of the invention the compounds of Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be administered to humans or companion animals such as cats and dogs for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition or disease. The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans as well as companion animals such as cats and dogs who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

A subject of the present invention therefore also are the compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as pharmaceuticals their use for antagonizing mineralocorticoid receptors and in particular their use in the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

A therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

Furthermore a subject of the present invention are pharmaceutical preparations or pharmaceutical compositions which comprise as active component an effective dose of at least one compound of the Formula I and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier i.e. one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier substances and or additives.

Thus subjects of the invention are for example said compound and its pharmaceutically or pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as a pharmaceutical pharmaceutical preparations which comprise as an active component a therapeutically effective dose of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and the uses of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the therapy or prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention can be administered orally for example in the form of pills tablets lacquered tablets sugar coated tablets granules hard and soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions syrups emulsions or suspensions or rectally for example in the form of suppositories. Administration can also be carried out parenterally for example subcutaneously intramuscularly or intravenously in the form of solutions for injection or infusion. Other suitable administration forms are for example percutaneous or topical administration for example in the form of ointments tinctures sprays or transdermal therapeutic systems or the inhalative administration in the form of nasal sprays or aerosol mixtures or for example microcapsules implants or rods. The preferred administration form depends for example on the disease to be treated and on its severity.

The amount of active compound of the Formula I and or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical preparations normally is from 0.2 to 700 mg preferably from 1 to 500 mg per dose but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical preparation it can also be higher. The pharmaceutical preparations usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the compounds of the Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The preparation of the pharmaceutical preparations can be carried out in a manner known per se. For this purpose one or more compounds of the Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts together with one or more solid or liquid pharmaceutical carrier substances and or additives or auxiliary substances and if desired in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds having therapeutic or prophylactic action are brought into a suitable administration form or dosage form which can then be used as a pharmaceutical in human or veterinary medicine.

For the production of pills tablets sugar coated tablets and hard gelatin capsules it is possible to use for example lactose starch for example maize starch or starch derivatives talc stearic acid or its salts etc. Carriers for soft gelatin capsules and suppositories are for example fats waxes semisolid and liquid polyols natural or hardened oils etc. Suitable carriers for the preparation of solutions for example of solutions for injection or of emulsions or syrups are for example water physiologically sodium chloride solution alcohols such as ethanol glycerol polyols sucrose invert sugar glucose mannitol vegetable oils etc. It is also possible to lyophilize the compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to use the resulting lyophilisates for example for preparing preparations for injection or infusion. Suitable carriers for microcapsules implants or rods are for example copolymers of glycolic acid and lactic acid.

Besides the active compounds and carriers the pharmaceutical preparations can also contain customary additives for example fillers disintegrants binders lubricants wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

The dosage of the active compound of the Formula I to be administered and or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of the Formula I. In general a daily dose of approximately 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg in particular 0.3 to 5 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose can be administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose.

The compounds of the Formula I bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor and antagonize the biological effects of aldosterone and cortisol. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on the mineralocorticoid receptor is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of the Formula I and salts thereof can furthermore be employed as already mentioned above as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

The above mentioned compounds are also of use in combination with other i.e. a second pharmacologically active compounds. Additional or second active compounds that may be used in combination with the compounds of the instant invention either co administered or in a fixed combination include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. losartan valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine veraparmil diltiazem gallopamil niludipine nimodipins nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics including loop diuretics e.g. furosemide torsemide thiazides diuretics e.g. chlorothiazide chlorothalidone hydrochlorothiazide sulfonamides e.g Indapemide Xipemide Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors e.g. acetazolamide methazolamide arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists and Na H exchanger inhibitors sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. propranolol atenolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol or metoprolol tartate alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. niacin HMG Co A reductase inhibitors metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide.

Examples of other active ingredients that may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I and either administered separately or in the same pharmaceutical composition include but are not limited to 

 a PPAR gamma agonists and partial agonists including both glitazones and non glitazones e.g. troglitazone pioglitazone englitazone MCC 555 rosiglitazone balaglitazone netoglitazone T 131 LY 300512 LY 818 and compounds disclosed in WO02 08188 WO2004 020408 and WO2004 020409.

 d dipeptidyl peptidase IV DPP 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin saxagliptin vildagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin and alogliptin 

 h agents which improve a patient s lipid profile such as i HMG CoA reductase inhibitors lovastatin simvastatin rosuvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rivastatin itavastatin ZD 4522 and other statins ii bile acid sequestrants cholestyramine colestipol and dialkylaminoalkyl derivatives of a cross linked dextran iii niacin receptor agonists nicotinyl alcohol nicotinic acid or a salt thereof iv PPARa agonists such as fenofibric acid derivatives gemfibrozil clofibrate fenofibrate and bezafibrate v cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as ezetimibe vi acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors such as avasimibe vii CETP inhibitors such as torcetrapib anacetrapib and dalcetrapib and viii phenolic antioxidants such as probucol 

 k anti obesity compounds such as fenfluramine dexfenfluramine phentiramine subitramine orlistat neuropeptide Y Y5 inhibitors MC4R agonists cannabinoid receptor 1 CB 1 antagonists inverse agonists e.g. rimonabant and taranabant and adrenergic receptor agonists 

 m agents intended for use in inflammatory conditions such as aspirin non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs glucocorticoids azulfidine and cyclooxygenase 2 Cox 2 selective inhibitors 

One or more additional active agents may be administered with the compounds described herein. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid modifying compounds or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid modifying effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin also known as CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 HMG CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors endothelial lipase inhibitors bile acid sequestrants LDL receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR gamma agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidine diones as well as those PPAR gamma agonists outside the thiazolidine dione structural class PPAR alpha agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil dipeptidyl peptidase IV DPP 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin saxagliptin vildagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin and alogliptin vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers diuretics including Loop diuretics e.g. furosemide torsemide thiazides diuretics e.g. chlorothiazide chlorothalidone hydrochlorothiazide sulfonamides e.g indapemide xipemide carbonic anhydrase inhibitors e.g. acetazolamide methazolamide arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists and Na H exchanger inhibitors sympatholitics endothelin antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibiting compounds including anacetrapib 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP inhibiting compounds 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO inhibiting compounds farnesoid X receptor FXR ligands including both antagonists and agonists liver X Receptor LXR alpha ligands LXR beta ligands bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib and celecoxib and compounds that attenuate vascular inflammation.

The compounds of Formula I can be synthesized in accordance with the general schemes provided below where R R and Rare defined as above unless otherwise indicated taking into account the specific examples that are provided. Throughout the synthetic schemes and examples abbreviations are used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

Reaction Schemes 1 9 illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. In the Schemes all substituents are as defined above in Formula I unless indicated otherwise.

Synthetic methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention are illustrated in the following Schemes and Examples. Starting materials are commercially available or may be made according to procedures known in the art or as illustrated herein.

As shown in SCHEME 1 the phenylacetic acid starting material X Cl CF Br etc. can be converted to ester 2 using standard conditions and subsequently brominated at the alpha position to give bromide 3. Reaction of 3 with 1H indazole or its 6 F analog afforded a mixture of alkylated products 4 and 4 . Alkylation of the resulting anion intermediate from 4 gave compound 5 which is reduced and protected to give Boc intermediate 7.

As shown in SCHEME 2 reduction of ester 7 X Br afforded racemic alcohol 8 which was resolved to give two enantiomers using chiral column chromatography. Each enantiomer of 8 was carried forward using the same procedure individually. Oxidation of 8 gave aldehyde 9 which was treated with Grignard reagent to give secondary alcohol 10 R C Calkyl or C Ccycloalkyl which may be optionally substituted with halo OR and C Calkyl . Subsequent deprotection of Boc and formation of sulfonamide afforded 12 as a diastereomeric mixture from each enantiomers of 8. Separation using chiral SCF chromatography provided pure individual diastereomers of 12.

As shown in SCHEME 3 for enantiomerically pure 7 deprotection of the Boc produced 13. Subsequent sulfonlyation and reduction of ester to alcohol gave the enantiomerically pure primary alcohol 15. Starting with racemic compound 6 and following the procedures of SCHEME 3 racemic 15 was obtained.

As shown in SCHEME 4 the ester 14 X CF halo etc. was hydrolyzed to give acid 16. Amide formation reaction such as standard peptide coupling conditions produced the primary amide 17.

In SCHEME 5 the ester 7 can be converted to ethyl ketone 18 using ethyl lithium. Deprotection of Boc afforded aniline 19 which was sulfonylated to give 20. Reduction of ketone 20 to alcohol produced secondary alcohol 21. The diastereomeric mixture of 4 isomers of 21 could be separated by chiral column chromatography into individual diastereomers. If each enantiomer of 7 was individually carried through the method of SCHEME 5 the resulting two separate mixtures of diastereomers 21 could be separated to give enantiomerically pure diastereomers of 21.

As shown in SCHEME 6 the phenylacetic acid starting material 22 was converted to ester 23 using standard conditions and subsequently brominated at the alpha position to give bromide 24.

As shown in SCHEME 7 nitrotoluene 25 was nitrated to give dinitrotoluene 26 which was reduced to afford nitroaniline 27. The latter was cyclized to indazole 28 using sodium nitrite.

As shown in SCHEME 8 alkylation of 28 using intermediate 24 afforded a mixture of isomeric products 29 and 29 which was purified to give ester 30 following alkylation using ethyl iodide. Compound 30 was resolved into its enantiomers and each enantiomer was carried forward using the same procedures Compound 30 was reduced and protected using trityl chloride to give trityl Tr protected intermediate 32. The ester 32 was first reduced to primary alcohol 33 which was oxidized using Dess Martin reagent to give aldehyde 34. Addition of Grignard reagent produced a diastereomeric mixture of secondary alcohols 35. The latter was deprotected and the resulting aniline 36 was sulfonylated to give sulfonamide 37 plus side product 37 . This mixture was treated with base to give pure product 38. Starting with each enantiomer of 32 chromatographic separation of resulting diastereomeric mixtures 38 afforded pure individual diastereomers of 38.

As shown in SCHEME 9 intermediate ester 7 can be reduced to give alcohol 39 which in turn was oxidized to aldehyde 40. An addition was carried out on compound 40 to afford the intermediate 41. A Boc deprotection of 41 and subsequent sulfonylation using appropriate alkylsulfonyl chloride provided intermediate 43. Removal of the phosphonate group from 43 provides compounds 44. The diastereomeric mixture of 44 can be separated into individual diastereomers. A similar sequence of reactions can be carried out on the fluorine substituted indazole starting material to afford fluorine substituted 44 analogs.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. Unless otherwise indicated the starting materials are commercially available. They should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way.

The following examples were provided to more fully illustrate the present invention and shall not be construed as limiting the scope in any manner. Unless stated otherwise 

To a solution of compound 1 10.0 g 49 mmol in methanol 250 ml was added concentrated sulfuric acid 2 ml at rt and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 ml washed with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 50 ml 3 dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was used for the next step without purification.

To a solution of compound 2 10.7 g 49 mmol and NBS 13.1 g 73.6 mmol in carbon tetrachloride 200 ml was add hydrobromic acid 1.0 ml . The mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred overnight. After cooling the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 ml washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution 50 ml 3 dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate then filtered. After removing the organic solvent the residue was used for the next step without purification.

To a mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole 9.6 g 58.8 mmol in acetonitrile 200 ml was added potassium carbonate 10.8 g 78.4 mmol at rt followed by the addition of compound 3 14.5 g 80 about 39.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 4 hours. The precipitate was removed by filtration. After the fitrate was concentrated under vacuum the residue mixture of 4 and 4 was used for the next step without purification.

To a solution of mixture 4 4 19.0 g 70 about 35.0 mmol in methanol 500 ml was added Raney nickel 2.0 g at rt. The mixture was charged with hydrogen three times then stirred for one hour. After removal of the catalyst by filtration solvent was removed in vacuum to give a yellow oil. The residue mixtures 5 and 5 were used for the next step without purification.

A mixture of compound 5 5 17.0 g 70 about 34.0 mmol di tert butyl dicarbonate 8.0 g 37.2 mmol and t butanol 200 ml was heated to 80 C. and stirred overnight. After removing the solvent the residue was purified by chromatogram on silica gel eluent ethyl acetate petroleum 1 10 to give a pure white solid 6.

To a solution of compound 6 2 g 4.5 mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and HMPA 2 ml was added LiHMDS 4.5 ml 4.5 mmol at 78 C. After stirring for 30 minutes iodoethane 0.696 g 4.5 mmol was added at this temperature and then the reaction mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for additional one hour. The mixture was quenched with a saturated ammonium chloride solution 50 ml then ethyl acetate 100 ml was added and the organic layer was washed with water 50 ml 2 . The organic layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluent ethyl acetate petroleum 1 10 to give racemic Intermediate IA as a white solid.

Enantiomer A of Intermediate IA had retention time of 3.32 min on a analytical AD column 150 4.6 mm I.D. 3 m Column Temp 35 deg. Mobile Phase methanol 0.05 DEA in CO2 from 5 to 40 Flow Rate 2.5 mL min 

To a solution of 2 4 bromophenyl acetic acid 38.0 g 177 mmol in methanol 500 mL was added concentrated sulfuric acid 7.2 mL at rt and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. After removing the solvent the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate 50 mL 3 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then filtered. After removing organic solvent the crude product was used for the next step without purification.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 bromophenyl acetate from Step A 40 g 176 mmol and NBS 34.5 g 194 mmol in CCl 500 mL was added AIBN 2.89 g 17.6 mmol . Then the mixture was heated to 80 C. overnight. After cooling to rt the mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with brine 50 mL 3 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate then filtered. The organics were concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound which was used in next step without purification.

To a mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole 5 g 31 mmol and potassium carbonate 10.7 g 77.5 mmol in dry acetonitrile 80 mL was added methyl 2 bromo 2 4 bromophenyl acetate from Step B above 8.44 g 37.2 mmol at 0 C. Then the mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The potassium carbonate was removed by filtration and the acetonitrile was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL x 3 . The combined organics were dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by silica gel column chromatography PE EA 8 1 to afford the title mixtures. LC MS m z 392.0 M 1 .

To a solution containing the product of Step C above 4 g 10.3 mmol in THF 40 mL and HMPA 10 mL was added LiHMDS 30.9 mL 30.9 mmol 1 M in THF at 78 C. After stirring at 78 C. for 30 min EtI 4.8 g 30.9 mmol was added to the mixture. Then the resulting mixture was gradually warmed to rt quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with water 15 mL and brine 15 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product was purified by silica gel column chromatography PE EA 30 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 418.0 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 bromophenyl 2 4 nitro 1H indazol 1 yl butanoate from Step D above 2.04 g 4.9 mmol in EA 30 mL was added 10 Pt C 200 mg at rt. The mixture was degassed three times and backfilled with hydrogen and then stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 1 h at rt. The solid was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude title compound which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 386.9 M 1 .

A mixture of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 bromo phenyl butanoate from Step E above 1.85 g 4.78 mmol and BocO 2.06 g 9.56 mmol in t BuOH 20 mL was heated to 80 C. overnight. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography PE EA 5 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 488.0 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 bromophenyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl butanoate from Step F above 1.4 g 2.87 mmol in THF 20 mL was added LiBH 631 mg 28.7 mmol at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was carefully quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 460.0 M l . The racemic product was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column IC Mobile phase SCF 2.4 mL min MeOH 0.1 DEA 0.6 mL min Column Temp 39.3 C. to give the enantiomer A Rt 5.39 min and enantiomer B Rt 6.16 min .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 bromophenyl 1 hydroxybutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 360 mg 0.78 mmol enantiomer B in DCM 20 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 992 mg 2.34 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 0.5 h and the suspension was filtered. The filtrate was washed with water 20 mL and brine 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by silica gel column chromatography PE EA 5 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 458.0 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 bromophenyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate Enantiomer B from Step H above 274 mg 0.6 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 15 mL was added methylmagnesium bromide 0.8 mL 2.4 mmol 3 M in ether at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by PREP TLC PE EA 5 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 476 M 1 .

Trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL was added rapidly dropwise to a stirred solution of tert butyl 1 3 4 bromophenyl 2 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate Diastereomer C and D from Step I above 240 mg 0.51 mmol in DCM 12 mL at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h the reaction was quenched by careful addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 10 mL 2 . The organic layers were washed with brine 15 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 373.8 M 1 .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 66 mg 0.58 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 3 4 bromophenyl pentan 2 ol Diastereomer C and D from Step J above 178 mg 0.48 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 96 mg 0.96 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 0 C. After stirring for 30 min an additional portion of methanesulfonyl chloride 44 mg 0.38 mmol was added to the mixture. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 10 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by PREP TLC PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 452.0 M 1 . The diastereomeric mixture was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column AS H Mobile phase SCF 2.25 mL min MeOH 0.75 mL min Column Temp 40.5 C. to give the diastereomer C Rt 4.34 min and diastereomer D Rt 5.4 min .

Diastereomer C Compound 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.27 s 1H 7.50 s 1H 7.42 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.12 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.01 7.07 m 3H 6.34 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.13 5.18 m 1H 4.33 br 1H 3.12 s 3H 2.44 2.51 m 2H 1.05 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.47 t J 7.2 Hz 3H . Diastereomer D Compound 2 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.26 s 1H 7.46 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.32 s 1H 7.10 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.00 7.05 m 3H 6.25 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.77 4.82 m 1H 3.12 s 3H 2.69 2.76 m 1H 2.47 2.52 m 1H 1.00 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.66 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Using the procedure described in Example 1 in Steps H through K but using enantiomer A from Step G Compounds 3 and 4 of Table 1 were prepared respectively. For Compound 3 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OJ H Rt 4.04 min. For Compound 4 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OJ H Rt 6.08 min.

Using the procedure described in Example 1 in Steps I through K but using ethylmagnesium bromide replacement of methylmagnesium bromide Compounds 5 and 6 of Table 1 were prepared respectively. For Compound 5 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column IC Rt 2.15 min. For Compound 6 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column IC Rt 3.78 min.

Using the procedure described in Example 1 in Steps H through K but using enantiomer A from Step G and ethylmagnesium bromide replacement of methylmagnesium bromide in step I Compounds 7 and 8 of Table 1 were prepared respectively. For Compound 7 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column AD H Rt 3.2 min. For Compound 8 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column AD H Rt 5.72 min.

Compound 2 exhibited good metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 2 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 2 is shown below 

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate Intermediate IA enantiomer A 1 g 2.09 mmol in 2 mL of THF was added ethyllithium 8 mL 10.48 mol 1.3 M in ether at rt. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1.5 h quenched with sat. ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the crude product which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 476.2 M 1 .

A solution of 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl hexan 3 one enantiomer A from Step A above 400 mg 0.84 mmol in HCl MeOH 5 mL was stirred at 0 C. for 3 h. The volatile was removed in vacuo to provide the title product which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 376.1 M 1 .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 78 mg 0.68 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl hexan 3 one enantiomer A from Step B above 200 mg 0.53 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 68 mg 0.68 mmol in DCM 5 mL at 0 C. After stirring 30 min the mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for another 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 10 mL and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL . The layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 10 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 454.1 M 1 .

To a solution of N 1 4 oxo 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl hexan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide enantiomer A from Step C above 150 mg 0.33 mmol in THF 5 mL was added NaBH 60 mg 1.58 mmol at 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 30 min the mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for another 2 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with DCM 10 mL 3 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 10 mL and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by PREP HPLC to afford diastereomer A Rt LCMS TFA 1.77 min and diastereomer B Rt LCMS TFA 1.80 min . LC MS m z 456.1 M 1 .

Diastereomer A Compound 9 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 s 1H 7.58 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.26 7.27 m 2H 7.09 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.02 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.92 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.51 4.54 m 1H 3.11 s 3H 2.54 2.79 m 2H 1.15 1.34 m 2H 0.95 t J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.69 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Diastereomer B Compounds 10 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 s 1H 7.56 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 72.9 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.93 7.11 m 3H 6.26 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.85 4.88 m 1H 3.12 s 3H 2.49 2.79 m 2H 1.63 1.64 m 1H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.82 0.92 m 1H 0.48 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Compound 9 exhibited good metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 9 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 9 is shown below 

Trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL was added rapidly dropwise to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate Intermediate IA enantiomer A 0.95 g 2 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h the reaction was quenched with careful addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by extraction with ether. The organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 378.0 M 1 .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 0.23 g 2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step A above 0.6 g 1.6 mmol and 4 methylmorpholine 0.25 g 2.5 mmol in DCM 8 mL at 0 C. After 30 min an additional portion of methanesulfonyl chloride 0.11 g 1 mmol was added to the mixture. The resulting mixture was stirred for another 1 h and diluted with DCM and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined organics were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 456.00 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step B above 0.5 g 1.1 mmol in THF 5 mL was added dropwise lithium aluminum hydride solution 1.4 mL 1.4 mmol 1 M in THF at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 0.5 hours at 78 C. TLC and LCMS was monitored to determine when the reaction was complete then 3M HCl solution was carefully added into the reaction mixture to adjust the pH to 2 3 under ice bath cooling. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The resulting mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography PE EA 2 1 to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 428.00 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.17 s 1H 7.51 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.15 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.01 7.08 m 3H 6.37 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.46 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 4.03 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 3.06 s 3H 2.51 2.54 m 2H 0.59 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

A solution of methyl 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step B in Example 3 250 mg 0.54 mmol and aqueous LiOH 0.54 mL 1.62 mmol 3M in HO in THF 2 mL was stirred at rt for 3 h. The mixture was acidified with 1M HCl 1.7 mL and extracted with DCM 10 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the title product which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 442.1 M 1 .

To a solution of 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoic acid enantiomer A from Step A above 100 mg 0.23 mmol HOBT 55 mg 0.4 mmol and EDCI 76.5 mg 0.4 mmol in 6 mL of DMF was added N ethyl N isopropylpropan 2 amine 52 mg 0.4 mmol at rt. After stirring 30 min ammonium chloride was added to the mixture and stirred for 8 h. The reaction mixture was taken up in HO and extracted with DCM 10 mL 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by PREP HPLC to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 441.1 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.31 s 1H 7.58 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.52 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.24 br 1H 7.14 7.15 m 2H 6.92 br 1H 6.52 6.55 m 1H 5.67 br 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.97 3.02 m 1H 2.68 2.73 m 1H 0.86 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Using the procedures described in Steps A through F of Example 1 but starting with 2 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid the title compound was provided as a racemate. The racemate was resolved on AD H column using SCF chromatography A CO B MeOH A B 80 20 at 1.0 mL min at 38.3 C. enantiomer A Rt 3.71 min enantiomer B Rt 4.73 min.

Using the procedure described in Steps G through K of Example 1 but starting with methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 chlorophenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step A above the title compound was obtained as a diastereomeric mixture. The individual diastereomers were separated on IC column using SCF chromatography A CO2 B MeOH A B 70 30 at 1.0 mL min at 40 C. enantiomer A Rt 6.39 min enantiomer B Rt 11.71 min.

To a solution of N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide diastereomer A from Step B above 304 mg 0.745 mmol in anhydrous DMA 4.0 mL was added zinc cyanide 96 mg 0.82 mmol zinc dust 56 mg 0.820 mmol 50 micron and chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 29.3 mg 0.037 mmol and the suspension was stirred at 130 C. for 2.5 hrs. under an Natmosphere. The mixture was cooled to rt and diluted with 4 ml of 50 MeCN HO filtered through a 0.45 micron filter and purified by reverse phase C 18 HPLC chromatography. Lyophilization afforded the title compound as a white lyophilizate. LC MS m z 399.4 M Na . IP nM 225.

Using the procedures described above but in Step C substituting with N 1 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylmethanesulfonamide Diastereomer B provides N 1 3 4 cyanophenyl 2 hydroxypentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide Diastereomer B Compound 14 . IP nM 343.

To a solution of N 1 3 4 bromophenyl 4 hydroxyhexan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide diastereomer C Compound 5 as described in Example 1 above 11.4 mg 0.024 mmol in anhydrous DMA 0.20 mL was added zinc cyanide 3.16 mg 0.027 mmol zinc dust 1.75 mg 0.820 mmol 50 micron and chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II 1.92 mg 0.037 mmol and the suspension was stirred at 120 C. for 0.5 hrs. under an Natmosphere. The mixture was cooled to rt and diluted with 1 ml of 50 MeCN HO filtered through a 0.45 micron filter and purified by reverse phase C 18 HPLC chromatography. Lyophilization afforded the title compound as a white lyophilizate. LC MS m z 413.5 M 1 . IP nM 56.

Using the procedures described above but substituting with N 1 3 4 bromophenyl 4 hydroxyhexan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide diastereomer D Compound 6 as described in Example 1 above provides N 1 3 4 cyanophenyl 4 hydroxyhexan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl methanesulfonamide Diastereomer B Compound 16 . IP nM 48.

Following the analogous procedures described in Examples 1 to 6 but substituting the appropriate starting materials the following compounds were prepared 

Following the analogous procedures described in Examples 1 to 6 but substituting the appropriate starting materials the following compounds are prepared 

To a solution of 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetic acid 10.0 g 49 mmol in methanol 250 mL was added concentrated sulfuric acid 2 mL at rt. After stirring for 2 h the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved with ethyl acetate 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL 3 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude title product which was used for the next step without purification.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate 10.7 g 49 mmol and NBS 13.1 g 73.6 mmol in benzene 200 mL was added AIBN 0.8 g 0.49 mmol at rt. Then the mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred overnight. After cooling to rt the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved with ethyl acetate 200 mL . The organic phase was washed with brine 30 mL 3 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 200 300 mesh eluent 5 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the pure product.

4 Fluoro 1 methyl 2 nitrobenzene 35 g 226 mmol was dissolved in fuming sulphuric acid 122 mL at about 5 C. to about 0 C. A mixture of fuming sulphuric acid 61 mL and fuming nitric acid 20 mL was added dropwise to the above solution at about 5 C. to about 0 C. over the period of 45 min. After the addition was completed the reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. The reaction mixture was poured into ice 300 g and extracted with dichloromethane 200 mL 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with water 200 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel 100 200 mesh eluent 2 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the purified compound.

A solution of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 3 dinitrobenzene 8.1 g 40.5 mmol in ethanol 130 mL was treated dropwisely with a solution of sodium sulfide nonahydrate 16.39 g 68 mmol in water 90 mL . The mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 2.5 h then diluted with water 500 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 500 mL 4 . The combined extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 15 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 nitroaniline as a solid.

To a solution of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 nitroaniline 3 g 17 mmol in glacial acetic acid 100 mL and water 15 mL was added a solution of sodium nitrite dropwise 3 g 43.5 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 24 h. After consumption of starting material acetic acid was removed under reduced pressure. The crude was dissolved in ethyl acetate and filtered through a plug of silica gel to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 182.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 6 fluoro 4 nitro 1H indazole 2 g 11 mmol and potassium carbonate 3 g 22 mmol in dry acetonitrile 20 mL was added methyl 2 bromo 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate 3.9 g 13.2 mmol at 0 C. Then the mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. The potassium carbonate was filtered off and the acetonitrile was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organics were dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the mixture of the title products. LC MS m z 398.2 M l .

To a solution containing a mixture of the products from the previous step 0.5 g 1.3 mmol in THF 10 mL and HMPA 2.5 mL was added LiHMDS 3.9 mL 3.9 mmol 1M in THF at 78 C. After stirring for 30 min EtI 2 g 12.8 mmol was added to the mixture. Then the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for another 2 h quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the pure title compound. LC MS m z 426.1 M 1 . The racemic product was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column AD H Mobile phase SCF 2.7 mL min IPA Hexane 1 5 0.1 DEA 0.3 mL min Column Temp 39.6 C. to give the enantiomer A Rt 3.09 min and enantiomer B Rt 3.65 min .

To a solution of methyl 2 6 fluoro 4 nitro 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate 1 g 2.4 mmol enantiomer A in MeOH 20 mL was added Raney Ni 0.1 g at rt. The mixture was degassed and backfilled with hydrogen three iterations then the mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. The catalyst was filtered off and filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude product which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 396.1 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step H above 2.5 g 6.3 mmol in dry DCM 30 mL was added EtN 1.3 g 13 mmol and TrCl 1.9 g 6.8 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 10 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 638.0 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 6 fluoro 4 tritylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate enantiomer A from Step I above 1.6 g 2.5 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 50 mL was added LiBH 0.17 g 7.7 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h carefully quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 30 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with water and brine 15 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 5 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 610.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 2 6 fluoro 4 tritylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butan 1 ol enantiomer A from Step J above 2.3 g 3.8 mmol in dry dimethyl sulfoxide 50 mL was added 1 2 benziodoxol 3 1H one 1 hydroxy 1 oxide 2.64 g 9.1 mmol at rt. The mixture was stirred overnight at rt partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 20 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL 3 dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 608.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 2 6 fluoro 4 tritylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanal 1.0 g 1.6 mmol enantiomer A from Step K above in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was added methylmagnesium bromide 1.1 mL 3.3 mmol 3 M in ether at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for another 1 h quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 3 . The combined organics were washed with water and brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 624.0 M 1 .

A mixture of 3 6 fluoro 4 tritylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 2 ol Diastereomers A and B from Step L above 1.9 g 3 mmol and 4N HCl MeOH 30 mL was stirred at rt for 1 h. Then the reaction mixture was neutralized with saturated NaHCOsolution and the volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water 15 mL and ethyl acetate 30 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL 2 dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 20 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 381.9 M 1 .

To a solution of 3 4 amino 6 fluoro 1H indazol 1 yl 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 2 ol Diastereomers A and B from Step M above 0.9 g 2.4 mmol and EtN 0.73 g 7.2 mmol in dry dichloromethane 20 mL was added MsO 1.2 g 7 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour then partitioned between dichloromethane 20 mL and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 10 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 15 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude product which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 538.0 M 1 .

A mixture of N 6 fluoro 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 yl N methylsulfonyl methanesulfonamide Diastereomers A and B from Step N above 0.85 g 1.58 mmol and NaOH 127 mg 3.2 mmol in MeOH 10 mL and water 1 mL was refluxed for 24 h. Then the volatile was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 20 mL and DCM 20 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 10 mL 2 . The combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel 300 400 mesh eluent 20 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 459.8 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.15 s 1H 7.59 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.28 s 1H 7.09 s 1H 6.98 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 5.91 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 5.17 s 1H 4.24 s 1H 3.17 d J 2.0 Hz 3H 2.52 2.46 m 2H 1.04 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.53 0.49 m 2H . The diastereomeric mixture was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column IB Mobile phase SCF 2.1 mL min MeOH 0.1 DEA 0.9 mL min Column Temp 38.1 C. to give the diastereomer A Rt 2.33 min and diastereomer B Rt 3.7 min .

Diastereomer A Compound 31 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 s 1H 7.61 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.25 7.26 m 2H 6.96 6.99 m 1H 5.85 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 5.08 br 1H 4.82 4.85 m 1H 3.17 s 3H 2.75 2.81 m 1H 2.48 2.54 m 1H 1.0 d J 6.0 Hz 3H 0.7 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Diastereomer B Compound 32 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.79 br 1H 8.24 s 1H 7.69 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.62 m 1H 5.46 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 5.01 5.05 m 1H 4.84 4.85 m 1H 2.9 s 3H 2.55 2.58 m 1H 2.35 2.41 m 1H 0.85 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.49 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Compound 31 exhibited excellent metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 31 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 31 in rats is shown below 

Using the procedures described in Example 1 Steps H through 0 but starting with enantiomer B from Step G Diastereomers C and D Compound 33 and 34 of Table 7 were prepared respectively. For Compounds 33 and 34 the following chiral separation conditions were used Column AD H Mobile phase SCF 2.1 mL min MeOH 0.1 DEA 0.9 mL min Column Temp 39.9 C. . Compound 33 Rt 1.62 min Compound 34 Rt 2.7 min.

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate 2 g 4.45 mmol precursor compound 6 during preparation of Intermediate IA in NMP 5 mL was added CsCO 2.9 g 8.9 mmol and 2 bromo 1 1 difluoroethane 1.3 g 8.9 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. under MW for 2 h and then diluted with HO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL x 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chrotomagraphy petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 to give the target product. LC MS m z 514.1 M 1 . The racemic product was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column OJ H Mobile phase SCF 2.55 mL min IPA MeOH 1 9 0.1 DEA 0.45 mL min Column Temp 40 C. to give the enantiomer A Rt 1.87 min and enantiomer B Rt 2.5 min .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 difluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate 200 mg 0.39 mmol enantiomer B from Step A above in MeOH 5 mL was added NaBH 148 mg 3.9 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then quenched with saturated NHCl solution 20 mL . The aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 486.2 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 4 4 difluoro 1 hydroxy 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 270 mg 0.56 mmol from step B in DCM 4 mL was added Dess Martin Periodinane 472 mg 1.1 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then diluted with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL . The aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude was purified by column chrotomagraphy petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 to give the target product. LC MS m z 484.1 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 4 4 difluoro 1 oxo 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 130 mg 0.269 mmol in THF 2 mL was added CHMgBr 0.2 mL 0.6 mmol 3M in THF at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then quenched with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL x 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound without further purification. LC MS m z 500.2 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 1 1 difluoro 4 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate 120 mg 0.24 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added 4N HCl MeOH 5 mL at rt. After stirring at rt for 2 h the volatile was concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound without further purification. LC MS m z 400.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 3 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 5 5 difluoro 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 2 ol 120 mg 0.30 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added NMM 60 mg 0.6 mmol and MsC1 69 mg 0.6 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then quenched with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL x 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by PREP HPLC Mobile phase acetonitrile water 10 mM NHHCO to give title product as white solid. LC MS m z 478.1 M 1 . The diaseteromeric product was resolved by Prep Chiral SCF Column OD H Mobile phase CO 2.75 mL min MeOH 0.1 EDA 0.25 mL min Column Temp 40 C. to give the diastereomer C Rt 2.59 min and diastereomer D Rt 3.66 min .

Diastereomer C Compound 35 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.42 s 1H 7.63 7.61 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.26 7.25 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.13 7.11 m 1H 7.08 7.06 m 1H 6.45 6.14 m 2H 4.49 4.81 m 1H 3.25 3.11 m 5H 1.05 1.02 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

Diastereomer D Compound 36 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.43 s 1H 7.63 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.29 7.27 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.17 7.15 m 1H 7.11 7.07 m 1H 6.20 6.17 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.23 5.22 m 2H 3.12 s 3H 3.08 3.02 m 2H 1.10 1.09 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

Using the procedures described in Example 10 Steps B F but starting with enantiomer A from Step A Compounds 37 and 38 of Table 8 were prepared respectively. For Compound 37 Diastereomer A the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column AS H Rt 2.93 min. For Compound 38 Diastereomer B the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column AS H Rt 3.35 min. Diastereomer A Compound 37 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.42 s 1H 7.63 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.29 7.27 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.18 7.15 m 1H 7.12 7.08 m 1H 6.20 6.18 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.32 5.18 m 2H 3.05 s 3H 3.09 3.02 m 2H 1.10 1.096 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

Diastereomer B Compound 38 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.42 s 1H 7.59 7.57 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.22 7.20 d J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.05 7.70 m 2H 6.97 6.12 m 2H 4.91 4.86 m 1H 3.25 3.19 m 1H 3.12 3.04 m 4H 1.00 0.96 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

Using the procedure described in Example 10 in Steps D through F but replacing methylmagnesium bromide with ethylmagnesium bromide in step D Compounds 39 and 40 of Table 8 were prepared respectively. For Compound 39 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OD H Rt 4.39 min. For Compound 40 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OD H Rt 5.44 min. Diastereomer C Compound 39 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.35 s 1H 7.62 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.27 7.25 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.23 7.03 m 2H 7.31 7.203 m 2H 4.61 4.58 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 3.19 3.05 m 5H 1.40 1.36 m 1H 1.21 1.12 m 1H 0.98 0.95 t 3H .

Diastereomer D Compound 40 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.38 s 1H 7.62 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.30 7.28 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.16 7.09 m 2H 6.17 6.15 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.18 5.17 m 1H 4.90 4.87 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 4.13 s 1H 3.12 2.96 m 5H 1.62 1.57 m 1H 1.07 0.90 t 3H 0.89 0.86 m 1H .

Using the procedure described in Example 10 in Steps B through F but using enantiomer A from Step A and ethylmagnesium bromide replacement of methylmagnesium bromide in step D Compounds 41 and 42 of Table 8 were prepared respectively. For Compound 41 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OD H Rt 3.15 min. For Compound 42 the following final chiral separation conditions apply SCF column OD H Rt 4.17 min.

Compound 35 exhibited good metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 35 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 35 is shown below 

A mixture of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 difluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate 102 mg 0.2 mmol enantiomer A from Example 10 in step A and 4N HCl MeOH 5 mL was stirred at rt for 1 h. Then the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product which was used for the next step without purification. LC MS m z 414.2 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 4 4 difluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate 79 mg 0.19 mmol from step A in dry dichloromethane 1.5 mL was added 4 methylmorpholine 200 uL 1.88 mmol and MsCl 21 uL 0.282 mmol successively at rt. After stirring at rt for 1 h the mixture was quenched with ice water 5 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 6 mL 5 . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by PREP TLC eluent 35 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 492.1 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 4 4 difluoro 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate from Step B 50 mg 0.1 mmol in methanol 2 mL was added NaBH 20 mg 0.51 mmol at rt. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h then quenched with ice saturated NHCl solution 3 mL MeOH was removed in vacuo and the water layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 5 mL 4 . The organic layer was combined and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by PREP TLC eluent 33 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford the title compound. LC MS m z 464.1 M 1 . Enantiomer A Compound 43 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.31 s 1H 7.63 7.61 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.30 7.26 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.25 7.23 m 2H 7.17 7.12 m 2H 6.38 6.35 m 1H 6.10 5.80 m 1H 4.45 4.43 m 1H 4.30 4.25 m 1H 4.10 4.09 m 1H 3.18 3.09 m 5H .

Using the procedures described in Example 14 Steps A C but starting with enantiomer B in Step A Examples 15 of Table 8 was prepared. Enantiomer B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.38 s 1H 7.77 s 1H 7.63 7.61 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.28 7.23 m 2H 7.18 7.11 m 2H 6.38 6.35 d J 8 Hz 1H 5.93 m 1H 4.43 m 3H 3.18 3.09 m 5H .

Methyl 4 4 difluoro 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate 300 mg 0.61 mmol from Example 14 in step B in MeOH 5 mL was added LiOH 128 mg 3.05 mmol and HO 1 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight then the pH was adjusted to 4. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the combined organics were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give target compound which was used for the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 478.2 M 1 .

To a solution of 4 4 difluoro 2 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoic acid 240 mg 0.50 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added DIPEA 129 mg 1 mmol HATU 380 mg 1 mmol and NHCl 535 mg 10.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt overnight then diluted with saturated NaCl solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by Prep HPLC Mobile phase acetonitrile water 10 mM NHHCO to give the target compound. LC MS m z 477.2 M 1 . Enantiomer B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.35 m 5H 7.20 7.18 m 2H 7.06 7.02 m 1H 6.79 6.78 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 6.63 6.62 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 5.58 5.57 m 3H 3.30 3.08 m 2H 3.04 s 3H .

Using the procedures described in Example 14 Steps A B and Example 16 Steps A B but starting with enantiomer B from Example 10 Step A in Step A of Example 14 Compound 46 of Table 9 was prepared. Enantiomer B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.35 m 4H 7.26 m 1H 7.27 7.26 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.20 7.18 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.05 7.02 m 1H 6.80 6.79 s 1H 6.63 6.62 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 5.94 s 1H 5.82 5.60 m 2H 3.29 3.13 m 2H 3.05 s 3H .

Compound 46 exhibited good metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 46 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 46 is shown below 

To a solution of methyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 1H indazol 1 yl 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butanoate Intermeidate IA enantiomer A 200 mg 0.42 mmol in THF 5 mL was added LiBH 0.63 mL 1.25 mmol 2M in THF at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then quenched with saturated NHCl solution 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the organic phase was washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 450.2 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate from Step A above 300 mg 0.67 mmol in DCM 4 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 310 mg 0.73 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then diluted with saturated NHCl solution 40 mL was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 20 mL 3 and washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by column chrotomagraphy petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 v v to give the target product. LC MS m z 448.1 M 1 .

To a solution of diethyl difluoromethylphosphonate 550 mg 2.9 mmol in anhydrous THF 2 mL was added LDA 2.2 mL 4.4 mmol 2M in heptane THF ethylbenzene at 78 C. After stirring at 78 C. for 0.5 h a solution of tert butyl 1 1 oxo 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl butan 2 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate from Step B above 500 mg 1.1 mmol in THF 2 mL was added to the mixture. The resulting mixture was gradually warmed to rt for 2 h and quenched with HO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the organic phase was washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 636.1 M 1 .

To a solution of tert butyl 1 1 diethoxyphosphoryl 1 1 difluoro 2 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentan 3 yl 1H indazol 4 ylcarbamate from Step C above 450 mg 0.71 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added 4N HCl MeOH 2 mL at rt. After stirring at rt for 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the organic phase was washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 536.1 M 1 .

To a solution of diethyl 3 4 amino 1H indazol 1 yl 1 1 difluoro 2 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentylphosphonate from Step D above 370 mg 0.69 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added NMM 151 mg 1.4 mmol and MsCl 171 mg 1.5 mmol at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h then diluted with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 3 and the organic layer was washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS m z 614.3 M 1 .

To a solution of diethyl 1 1 difluoro 2 hydroxy 3 4 methylsulfonamido 1H indazol 1 yl 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl pentylphosphonate from Step E above 50 mg 0.0815 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added Na 18 mg 0.78 mmol at rt. After stirring at rt for 2 h the reaction was quenched with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 15 mL 3 . The organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by PREP HPLC CHCN HO 10 mM NHHCO to give the diastereomer A Rt LCMS NHHCO 1.91 min and diastereomer B Rt LCMS NHHCO 1.94 min . LC MS m z 478.2 M 1 .

Diastereomer A H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.29 s 1H 7.65 7.63 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.34 7.32 d J 8.0 2H 7.15 7.08 m 2H 6.31 6.29 d J 8.8 1H 5.91 5.63 t 1H 5.08 5.02 m 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.95 2.90 m 1H 2.62 2.56 m 1H 1.25 m 1H 0.65 0.61 t 3H .

Diastereomer B H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.34 s 1H 7.64 7.62 d J 8.4 Hz 3H 7.46 7.45 d J 7.6 2H 7.16 7.14 d J 7.2 1H 7.09 7.05 m 1H 6.21 6.19 d J 8.4 1H 5.25 5.11 m 2H 4.75 s 1H 3.15 s 3H 2.84 2.80 m 1H 2.58 2.55 m 1H 0.54 0.51 t 3H .

Using the procedures similar to those described in Example 18 and substitute ethanesulfonyl chloride for MsCl in Step E Compounds 49 and 50 in Table 11 were prepared. Using procedures similar to those described for Compounds 47 50 and starting with the appropriate fluoroindazole intermediate Compounds 51 54 in Table 11 were prepared.

Compound 47 exhibited good metabolic stability in liver microsome and hepatocytes of multiple animal species. Additionally Compound 47 exhibited a good PK profile in rats. The PK profile for Compound 47 is shown below 

Using procedures similar to those described for Compounds 35 42 in Table 8 the following compounds in Table 12 were prepared

Individual diastereomers or enantiomers of the above racemic compounds can be obtained by using standard separation techniques such as those described in the above Examples with the appropriate columns and conditions.

The activity of the compounds of the present invention regarding mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism can be evaluated using the following assay.

The human MR NH Pro assay is a commercially available PathHunter Protein Protein interaction assay DiscoveRx http www.discoverx.com nhrs prod nhrs.php that measures the ability of compounds to antagonize full length human Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR binding to a coactivator peptide. PathHunter CHO K1 cells that overexpress human MR Cat 93 0456C2 Lot No 09B0913 were cultured in growth media F12K w Glutamine and phenol red Gibco 11765 047 supplemented with 10 HI FBS Gibco 16000 0.25 mg ml Hygromycin in PBS Invitrogen 10687 010 50 mg ml 100 I.U. mL and 100 g mL Pen Strep Gibco 15140 122 0.6 mg mL Geneticin Gibco 10131 027 .

Compounds were assessed for MR antagonist activity by incubating the cells with a titrating dose of compound in F12K w Glutamine and phenol red culture media Invitrogen 11765 047 supplemented with 1 Charcoal Dextran Treated FBS Hyclone SH30068.01 and aldosterone 0.3 nM to about 1 nM for 6 hours at 37 C. Cells were then treated with DiscoveRx detection reagent for 1 hour at rt and read using an Envision luminescence plate reader. activity was measured relative to cells treated with aldosterone alone and ICand IP values were calculated using ADA software. The IP value which is the inflection point of the non linear regression curve and is based on the slope the minimum and the maximum points of the curve. The IP value is equal to the IC50 value when the slope is 1 and the minimum is 0 and the maximum is 100. 

Stock solution was prepared at 10 M in DMSO and stored at 20 C. for assay dilute in assay media to 1.8 or 6 nM 6 of final concentration about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM 

5. Cell line PathHunter CHO K1 MR cells Cat 93 0456C2 Lot No 09B0913 from operation liquid nitrogen stock.

6. Control Antagonist Spironolactone Sigma S 3378 and Eplerenone Sigma 107724 20 9 10 mM stock concentration also prepared in DMSO and stored at 20 C. .

2. Cells are collected with 0.05 trypsin and the cell suspension is spun and resuspended in a volume of F12 1.5 CD FBS and counted.

7. Aldosterone was diluted in assay media to 1.8 nM or 6 nM from 10 M stock final concentration to be about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM 

1. 10K exponentially growing cells well 25 L were resuspended in assay media and plated into each well using the Multidrop Thermo Electron use white wall clear bottom assay plates Costar 3570 and incubated overnight at 37 C. 5 CO.

3. 5 L of 6 agonist final aldosterone concentration should be about 0.3 nM to about 1.0 nM was added to all wells using the PlateMate Plus. ThermoFisher except those wells in columns 23 and 24 

As seen in the Examples above representative compounds of the instant invention were tested in the above assay and had IP values less than about 2000 nM.

