---

title: Methods for assessing modified LDL immune complexes in subjects having or at risk of coronary artery disease
abstract: The present invention relates to the analysis of modified LDL in the context of immune complexes. In particular, ox-LDL and AGE-LDL are shown to predict the development of coronary artery disease and other micro- and macrovascular disorders, particularly in the context of diabetes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08911958&OS=08911958&RS=08911958
owner: Department of Veterans Affairs
number: 08911958
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
This invention was made with government support under grant numbers P01 HL055782 and R01 DK081352 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and a grant from the Veterans Administration BLR D. The United States government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 885 020 filed Sep. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 568 995 which claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 243 770 filed Sep. 18 2009. The entire contents of each of the above referenced disclosures are specifically incorporated herein by reference without disclaimer.

The invention relates to the field of molecular biology particularly to the examination of modified LDL immune complexes to assess human diseases including type 1 diabetes and coronary heart disease and response to therapies therefor.

In the recent decades it has been established that atherosclerosis has a strong chronic inflammatory component Libby 2002 Ross 1999 Steinberg 2002 . Under this perspective a key issue is the definition of factors that may trigger and perpetuate the inflammatory reaction. In a multifactorial disease such as atherosclerosis many candidates have emerged but the understanding of their relative roles is still very incomplete. However it is clear that modified forms of LDL are major factors in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Oxidized LDL oxLDL has been the object of multiple studies pointing to its capacity to trigger proinflammatory events Drake et al. 1991 Kusuhara et al. 1997 Liao et al. 1991 Quinn et al. 1987 Yla Herttuala 1991 . This pro inflammatory activity of oxLDL has been linked to some of the pathways associated with innate immunity Drake et al. 1991 Liao et al. 1991 Terkeltaub et al. 1994 Hazen 2008 but the involvement of modified LDL in pro inflammatory immunological pathways is not limited to innate immunity pathways. There is strong evidence suggesting that adaptive cell mediated immunity pathways are also involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis Virella and Lopes Virella 2008 Andersson et al. 2009 . T cell activation in turn appears to be linked to LDL modification because peptides derived from oxidized LDL oxLDL have been shown to be recognized by T cells Stemme et al. 1995 . However the strongest link between modified LDL and innate immunity involves the activation of the humoral immune system.

Studies previously performed by the inventors examining the role of modified LDL immune complexes mLDL IC in the development of cardiovascular disease in T1D included a prospective study involving 98 diabetic subjects recruited as part of the Pittsburgh EDC study that showed that modified LDL IC using cholesterol as a surrogate marker of modified LDL and oxLDL antibodies correlated with the development of coronary artery disease CAD over a period of seven years Lopes Virella et al. 1999 Orchard et al. 1999 . To further evaluate the validity of the hypothesis that modified LDL play a role in the development of cardiovascular complications in T1D the inventors screened 1050 patients from the DCCT EDIC cohort for mLDL IC and evaluated the impact of these IC in progression of internal and common carotid intima medial thickness IMT a surrogate marker for CAD. They found that after adjustment for age gender IMT at year 1 ultrasonography equipment used to measure IMT DCCT randomization group smoking hypertension HbA1c logarithm of the albumin excretion rate AER and CReactive Protein CRP levels mLDL IC levels were associated with progression of internal carotid IMT Mironova et al. 1997 . However the measurements were made using cholesterol as a surrogate marker for modified LDL and using serum samples collected after enrollment of the patients on the EDIC phase of the study thus several years after enrollment into the DCCT. Furthermore the samples were collected two years after the first carotid IMT measurement and 2 years before the second measurement and therefore the predictive value of the IC could not be adequately assessed.

Thus in accordance with the present invention there is provided a method of predicting risk of coronary artery disease CAD in a subject comprising a providing a modified low density lipoprotein immune complex mod LDL IC containing sample from said subject b measuring oxidized LDL immune complexes ox LDL IC and or advanced glycation endproduct LDL immune complexes AGE LDL IC in said sample c comparing the amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC in said sample to a normal standard and d predicting that said subject is at risk of developing CAD where an elevated amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC as compared to said standard is observed or predicting that said subject is at not risk of developing CAD based where an elevated amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC as compared to said standard is not observed. The mod LDL IC containing sample may be serum or plasma.

Measuring may comprise i isolating mod LDL IC ii separating mod LDL from antibodies in said mod LDL IC and iii determining ox LDL and or AGE LDL from said mod LDL IC levels. Isolating mod LDL IC may comprise precipitation such as PEG precipitation. Separating may comprise affinity chromatography of precipitated mod LDL IC followed by selective elution of mod LDL. Determining may comprise capture immunoassay competitive immunoassay gas chromatography mass spectrometry gel electrophoresis or column chromatography.

The subject may exhibit elevated ox LDL levels elevated AGE LDL levels both elevated ox LDL and AGE LDL levels or does not exhibit elevated ox LDL or AGE LDL levels. The subject may have a family history of CAD may be male or female and may be 5 years of age or less 10 years of age or less 15 years of age or less or 20 years of age or less. The CAD may be secondary to type 1 diabetes type 2 diabetes or to a chronic autoimmune disorder such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of predicting risk of developing a micro and or macrovascular complication of type 1 diabetes T1D in a subject comprising a providing a modified low density lipoprotein immune complex mod LDL IC containing sample from said subject b measuring oxidized LDL immune complexes ox LDL IC and or advanced glycation endproduct LDL immune complexes AGE LDL IC in said sample c comparing the amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC in said sample to a normal standard and d predicting that said subject is at risk of developing micro and or macrovascular complication where an elevated amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC as compared to said standard is observed or predicting that said subject is at not risk of developing micro and or macrovascular complication based where an elevated amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC as compared to said standard is not observed. The mod LDL IC containing sample may be serum or plasma.

Measuring may comprise i isolating mod LDL IC ii separating mod LDL from antibodies in said mod LDL IC and iii determining ox LDL and or AGE LDL from said mod LDL IC levels. Isolating mod LDL IC may comprise precipitation such as PEG precipitation. Separating may comprise affinity chromatography of precipitated mod LDL IC followed by selective elution of mod LDL. Determining may comprise capture immunoassay competitive immunoassay gas chromatography mass spectrometry gel electrophoresis or column chromatography.

The subject may exhibit elevated ox LDL levels elevated AGE LDL levels both elevated ox LDL and AGE LDL levels or does not exhibit elevated ox LDL or AGE LDL levels. The subject may have a familial history of T1D with micro and or macrovascular complications such as one or more of cardiovascular disease peripheral vascular disease neuropathy retinopathy and or nephropathy.

In yet another embodiment there is provided a method of predicting efficacy of a treatment of a type 1 diabetes T1D complication in a subject comprising a providing a first modified low density lipoprotein immune complex mod LDL IC containing sample from said subject b measuring oxidized LDL immune complexes ox LDL IC and or advanced glycation endproduct LDL immune complexes AGE LDL IC in said first sample c treating said subject for said T1D complication d providing a second modified low density lipoprotein immune complex mod LDL IC containing sample from said subject e measuring oxidized LDL immune complexes ox LDL IC and or advanced glycation endproduct LDL immune complexes AGE LDL IC in second said sample f comparing the amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC in said first sample to said second sample and g determining that said treatment is effective when the amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC in said second sample is reduced as compared to said first sample or determining that said treatment is not effective when the amount of ox LDL IC and or AGE LDL IC in said second sample is not reduced as compared to said first sample. The mod LDL IC containing sample may be serum or plasma.

Measuring may comprise i isolating mod LDL IC ii separating mod LDL from antibodies in said mod LDL IC and iii determining ox LDL and or AGE LDL from said mod LDL IC levels. Isolating mod LDL IC may comprise precipitation such as PEG precipitation. Separating may comprise affinity chromatography of precipitated mod LDL IC followed by selective elution of mod LDL. Determining may comprise capture immunoassay competitive immunoassay gas chromatography mass spectrometry gel electrophoresis or column chromatography.

The subject may exhibit elevated ox LDL levels elevated AGE LDL levels both elevated ox LDL and AGE LDL levels or does not exhibit elevated ox LDL or AGE LDL levels. The method may further comprise making a decision to continue or discontinue said treatment of said subject or may further comprise making a decision to provide an additional continued treatment to said subject. The T1D complication may include one or more of cardiovascular disease peripheral vascular disease neuropathy retinopathy and or nephropathy.

It is contemplated that any method or composition described herein can be implemented with respect to any other method or composition described herein.

The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. The word about means plus or minus 5 of the stated number.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating specific embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The pro inflammatory properties of immune complexes have been well characterized for several decades Virella and Tsokos 2007 . In reality the pathogenic potential of autoantibodies depends on two main factors the antibody isotype and the deposition or in situ formation of IC in the extravascular space. Antibodies of the IgG1 and IgG3 isotypes are known to be pro inflammatory because of their easy diffusibility across the endothelial barrier and their capacity to activate the complement system by the classical pathway and of interacting with Fc receptors in phagocytic cells Virella and Tsokos 2007 Virella 2007 . Given that both circulating and complexed human autoantibodies to both oxLDL and AGE LDL are predominantly IgG of the IgG1 and IgG3 isotypes Virella and Lopes Virella 2003 Virella et al. 2008 Saad et al. 2006 Virella et al. 2000 Virella et al. 2003 it would be fully expected that they could play a pathogenic role in chronic inflammatory processes such as atherosclerosis.

However this potential has not been clearly supported by previous clinical trials is a consequence of technical difficulties surrounding the measurement of antibodies to modified lipoproteins and the corresponding IC. In either assay pre formed IC interfere with the assays and any method designed to measure the amounts and characteristics of circulating IC requires isolation of IC followed by dissociation and separation of antigens and antibodies. Antigen measurements have the advantage of identifying the complex of interest because IC of different natures can share antibody isotypes and the isolation steps are usually non specific for any given type of circulating IC. The consequence of these limitations is that reliable assays are complex and time consuming and both exhibit significant difficulties when the objective is the study of large patient cohorts.

In the present study the inventors performed specific measurements of the most prevalent IC in type 1 diabetes oxLDL IC AGE LDL IC and MDA LDL IC in serum samples collected from the DCCT EDIC cohort at the time of enrollment and randomization into the DCCT trial and determined their value compared to other conventional risk factors e.g. lipids lipoproteins HbA1c and albumin excretion rate to predict the development of CAD as assessed by two measurements of carotid IMT performed approximately 10 and 15 years after the samples were collected . This study has shown for the first time that high levels of oxLDL and AGE LDL IC even measured at very young age and when the patient is free of macrovascular disease are strongly predictive of accelerate intima media thickening over a period of 6 12 years first carotid IMT measurement or 11 17 years second carotid IMT measurement the predictive odds for these IC largely exceed classical predictive factors such as age gender smoking AER and LDL cholesterol concentration. Evidently the measurement of modified lipoproteins in IC isolated from peripheral blood is only a surrogate marker for the formation of extravascular IC of the same nature but its is a very reasonable surrogate marker because both modified LDL and the corresponding antibodies have been identified in atheromatous lesions Yla Herttuala et al. 1989 Yla Herttuala et al. 1994 .

Interestingly the levels of MDA LDL IC are not as predictive of CAD as assessed by carotid IMT. This could be a reflection of the fact that MDA LDL prepared in the laboratory is structurally different from oxLDL generated in vivo while copper oxidized LDL is structurally closer. Inhibition studies performed with IgG oxLDL antibodies purified from precipitated IC showed that the reactivity with immobilized copperoxidized LDL was only inhibited to a small extent with MDA LDL Virella et al. 2004 meaning that oxLDL contains additional epitopes besides MDA lysine. It seems clear that the non MDA epitopes of oxLDL are predominantly involved in the formation of pathogenic IC and therefore are responsible for a strong predictive power concerning the development of CAD.

Whether the strong predictive power of oxLDL IC and AGE LDL IC in the development of CAD is unique to T1D cannot be concluded from this study. On one hand the same predominance of IgG1 and IgG3 oxLDL antibodies has been found in non diabetic patients and healthy controls Mironova et al. 1996 . On the other patients with T1D have a complex constellation of genetic factors associated with their autoimmune disease that could very well have an influence on the magnitude of their autoimmune response to modified lipoproteins. It is however quite clear that the measurement of circulating oxLDL IC or AGE LDL IC will be very important to identify subjects with T1D at high risk for developing CAD even at very young age and before the disease is manifested. This finding may help to prevent or delay the development of macrovascular complications in T1D. These and other aspects of the invention are described in detail below.

Coronary artery disease CAD or atherosclerotic heart disease is the end result of the accumulation of atheromatous plaques within the walls of the coronary arteries that supply the myocardium the muscle of the heart with oxygen and nutrients. It is sometimes also called coronary heart disease CHD but although CAD is the most common cause of CHD it is not the only cause. CAD is the leading cause of death worldwide. While the symptoms and signs of coronary artery disease are noted in the advanced state of disease most individuals with coronary artery disease show no evidence of disease for decades as the disease progresses before the first onset of symptoms often a sudden heart attack finally arises. After decades of progression some of these atheromatous plaques may rupture and along with the activation of the blood clotting system start limiting blood flow to the heart muscle. The disease is the most common cause of sudden death and is also the most common reason for death of men and women over 20 years of age. According to present trends in the United States half of healthy 40 year old males will develop CAD in the future and one in three healthy 40 year old women.

As the degree of coronary artery disease progresses there may be near complete obstruction of the lumen of the coronary artery severely restricting the flow of oxygen carrying blood to the myocardium. Individuals with this degree of coronary artery disease typically have suffered from one or more myocardial infarctions heart attacks and may have signs and symptoms of chronic coronary ischemia including symptoms of angina at rest and flash pulmonary edema. An individual may develop a rupture of an atheromatous plaque at any stage of the spectrum of coronary artery disease. The acute rupture of a plaque may lead to an acute myocardial infarction heart attack .

Limitation of blood flow to the heart causes ischemia cell starvation secondary to a lack of oxygen of the myocardial cells. Myocardial cells may die from lack of oxygen and this is called a myocardial infarction commonly called a heart attack . It leads to heart muscle damage heart muscle death and later myocardial scarring without heart muscle regrowth. Chronic high grade stenosis of the coronary arteries can induce transient ischemia which leads to the induction of a ventricular arrhythmia with may terminate into ventricular fibrillation leading to death.

Myocardial infarction usually results from the sudden occlusion of a coronary artery when a plaque ruptures activating the clotting system and atheroma clot interaction fills the lumen of the artery to the point of sudden closure. The narrowing of the lumen of the heart artery before sudden closure is often not severe according to clinical research completed in the late 1990s and using IVUS examinations within 6 months prior to a heart attack. The events leading up to plaque rupture are not understood despite many theories. Myocardial infarction is almost never caused by temporary spasm of the artery wall occluding the lumen a condition also associated with atheromatous plaque and CAD.

CAD is associated with smoking diabetes and hypertension. A family history of early CAD is one of the less important predictors of CAD. Most of the familial association of coronary artery disease are related to common dietary habits. Screening for CAD includes evaluating high density and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and triglyceride levels. Despite much press most of the alternative risk factors including homocysteine C reactive protein CRP Lipoprotein a coronary calcium and more sophisticated lipid analysis have added little if any additional value to the conventional risk factors of smoking diabetes and hypertension.

Angina chest pain that occurs regularly with activity after heavy meals or at other predictable times is termed stable angina and is associated with high grade narrowings of the heart arteries. The symptoms of angina are often treated with betablocker therapy such as metoprolol or atenolol. Nitrate preparations such as nitroglycerin which come in short acting and long acting forms are also effective in relieving symptoms but are not known to reduce the chances of future heart attacks. Many other more effective treatments especially of the underlying atheromatous disease have been developed. Angina that changes in intensity character or frequency is termed unstable. Unstable angina may precede myocardial infarction and requires urgent medical attention. It may be treated with oxygen intravenous nitroglycerin and aspirin. Interventional procedures such as angioplasty may be done.

Typically coronary artery disease occurs when part of the smooth elastic lining inside a coronary artery the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle develops atherosclerosis. With atherosclerosis the artery s lining becomes hardened stiffened and swollen with material such as calcium deposits fatty deposits and abnormal inflammatory cells which form a plaque. Deposits of calcium phosphates hydroxyapatites in the muscular layer of the blood vessels appear to play not only a significant role in stiffening arteries but also for the induction of an early phase of coronary arteriosclerosis. This can be seen in a so called metatstatic mechanism of calcification as it occurs in chronic kidney disease and haemodialysis Rainer Liedtke 2008 . Although these patients suffer from a kidney dysfunction almost fifty percent of them die due to coronary artery disease. Patients with coronary artery disease might have just one or two plaques or might have dozens distributed throughout their coronary arteries.

The following are confirmed independent risk factors for the development of CAD hypercholesterolemia specifically serum LDL concentrations smoking hypertension high systolic pressure seems to be most significant in this regard hyperglycemia due to diabetes mellitus or otherwise and hemostatic factors high levels of fibrinogen and coagulation factor VII hereditary differences in such diverse aspects as lipoprotein structure and that of their associated receptors homocysteine processing metabolism etc. and high levels of Lp a . Significant but indirect risk factors include lack of exercise stress diet rich in saturated fats diet low in antioxidants obesity and age men over 60 women over 65 .

CAD has always been difficult to diagnose without the use of invasive or stressful activities. The development of the Multifunction Cardiogram MCG has changed the way CAD is diagnosed. The MCG consists of a 2 lead resting EKG signal is transformed into a mathematical model and compared against tens of thousands of clinical trials to diagnose a patient with an objective severity score as well as secondary and tertiary results about the patients condition. The results from MCG tests have been validated in 8 clinical trials which resulted in a database of over 50 000 patients where the system has demonstrated accuracy comparable to coronary angiography 90 overall sensitivity 85 specificity . This level of accuracy comes from the application of advanced techniques in signal processing and systems analysis combined with a large scale clinical database which allows MCG to provide quantitative evidence based results to assist physicians in reaching a diagnosis. The MCG has also been awarded a Category III CPT code by the American Medical Association in the July 2009 CPT update.

Coronary artery disease is the most common form of heart disease in the Western world. Prevention centers on the modifiable risk factors which include decreasing cholesterol levels addressing obesity and hypertension avoiding a sedentary lifestyle making healthy dietary choices and stopping smoking. There is some evidence that lowering homocysteine levels may contribute to more heart attacks NORVIT trial . In diabetes mellitus there is little evidence that very tight blood sugar control actually improves cardiac risk although improved sugar control appears to decrease other undesirable problems like kidney failure and blindness. Some recommend a diet rich in omega 3 fatty acids and vitamin C.

An increasingly growing number of other physiological markers and homeostatic mechanisms are currently under scientific investigation. Patients with CAD and those trying to prevent CAD are advised to avoid fats that are readily oxidized e.g. saturated fats and trans fats limit carbohydrates and processed sugars to reduce production of low density lipoproteins triacylglycerol and apolipoprotein B. It is also important to keep blood pressure normal exercise and stop smoking. These measures reduces the development of heart attacks. Recent studies have shown that dramatic reduction in LDL levels can cause regression of coronary artery disease in as many as of patients after just one year of sustained treatment. Menaquinone Vitamin K2 but not phylloquinone Vitamin K1 intake is associated with reduced risk of CAD mortality all cause mortality and severe aortic calcification.

It has been suggested that coronary artery disease is partially reversible using an intense dietary regimen coupled with regular cardio exercise. Vegetarians have been shown to have a 24 reduced risk of dying of heart disease. The consumption of trans fat commonly found in hydrogenated products such as margarine has been shown to cause the development of endothelial dysfunction a precursor to atherosclerosis. The consumption of trans fatty acids has been shown to increase the risk of coronary artery disease. Foods containing fiber potassium nitric oxide in green leafy vegetables monounsaturated fat polyunsaturated fat saponins or lecithin are said to lower cholesterol levels. Foods high in grease salt trans fat or saturated fat are said to raise cholesterol levels.

Diabetes mellitus is a condition in which the body does not produce enough or properly respond to insulin a hormone produced in the pancreas. Insulin enables cells to absorb glucose in order to turn it into energy. In diabetes the body either fails to properly respond to its own insulin does not make enough insulin or both. This causes glucose to accumulate in the blood often leading to various complications.

Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin producing beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas leading to a deficiency of insulin. This type of diabetes can be further classified as immune mediated or idiopathic. The majority of type 1 diabetes is of the immune mediated nature where beta cell loss is a T cell mediated autoimmune attack. There is no known preventive measure which can be taken against type 1 diabetes which contain approximately 10 of diabetes mellitus cases in North America and Europe though this varies by geographical location . Most affected people are otherwise healthy and of a healthy weight when onset occurs. Sensitivity and responsiveness to insulin are usually normal especially in the early stages. Type 1 diabetes can affect children or adults but was traditionally termed juvenile diabetes because it represents a majority of the diabetes cases in children.

The classical symptoms are polyuria and polydipsia which are respectively frequent urination and increased thirst and consequent increased fluid intake. Symptoms may develop quite rapidly weeks or months in type 1 diabetes particularly in children. However in type 2 diabetes symptoms usually develop much more slowly and may be subtle or completely absent. Type 1 diabetes may also cause a rapid yet significant weight loss despite normal or even increased eating and irreducible mental fatigue. All of these symptoms except weight loss can also manifest in type 2 diabetes in patients whose diabetes is poorly controlled although unexplained weight loss may be experienced at the onset of the disease. Final diagnosis is made by measuring the blood glucose concentration.

Prolonged high blood glucose causes glucose absorption which leads to changes in the shape of the lenses of the eyes resulting in vision changes sustained sensible glucose control usually returns the lens to its original shape. Blurred vision is a common complaint leading to a diabetes diagnosis type 1 should always be suspected in cases of rapid vision change whereas with type 2 change is generally more gradual but should still be suspected.

Various hereditary conditions may feature diabetes for example myotonic dystrophy and Friedreich s ataxia. Wolfram s syndrome is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder that first becomes evident in childhood. It consists of diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness hence the acronym DIDMOAD.

Diabetes mellitus is characterized by recurrent or persistent hyperglycemia and is diagnosed by demonstrating fasting plasma glucose level at or above 126 mg dL 7.0 mmol L plasma at or above 200 mg dL 11.1 mmol L two hours after a 75 g oral glucose load as in a glucose tolerance test and or symptoms of hyperglycemia and casual plasma glucose at or above 200 mg dL 11.1 mmol L . A positive result in the absence of unequivocal hyperglycemia should be confirmed by a repeat of any of the above listed methods on a different day. Most physicians prefer to measure a fasting glucose level because of the ease of measurement and the considerable time commitment of formal glucose tolerance testing which takes two hours to complete and offers no prognostic advantage over the fasting test. According to the current definition two fasting glucose measurements above 126 mg dL 7.0 mmol L is considered diagnostic for diabetes mellitus. Patients with fasting glucose levels from 100 to 125 mg dL 6.1 and 7.0 mmol L are considered to have impaired fasting glucose. Patients with plasma glucose at or above 140 mg dL or 7.8 mmol L but not over 200 two hours after a 75 g oral glucose load are considered to have impaired glucose tolerance. Of these two pre diabetic states the latter in particular is a major risk factor for progression to full blown diabetes mellitus as well as cardiovascular disease.

While not used for diagnosis an elevated level of glucose irreversibly bound to hemoglobin termed glycosylated hemoglobin or HbA1c of 6.0 or higher the 2003 revised U.S. standard is considered abnormal by most labs HbA1c is primarily used as a treatment tracking test reflecting average blood glucose levels over the preceding 90 days approximately which is the average lifetime of red blood cells which contain hemoglobin in most patients. However some physicians may order this test at the time of diagnosis to track changes over time. The current recommended goal for HbA1c in patients with diabetes is 6.5 .

Chronic elevation of blood glucose level leads to damage of blood vessels angiopathy . The endothelial cells lining the blood vessels take in more glucose than normal since they don t depend on insulin. They then form more surface glycoproteins than normal and cause the basement membrane to grow thicker and weaker. In diabetes the resulting problems are grouped under microvascular disease due to damage to small blood vessels and macrovascular disease due to damage to the arteries .

However some research challenges the theory of hyperglycemia as the cause of diabetic complications. The fact that 40 of diabetics who carefully control their blood sugar nevertheless develop neuropathy and that some of those with good blood sugar control still develop nephropathy requires explanation. It has been discovered that the serum of diabetics with neuropathy is toxic to nerves even if its blood sugar content is normal. Recent research suggests that in T1D the continuing autoimmune immune disease which initially destroyed the cells of the pancreas may also cause retinopathy neuropathy and nephropathy. One researcher has even suggested that retinopathy may be better treated by drugs to suppress the abnormal immune system of diabetics than by blood sugar control. The familial clustering of the degree and type of diabetic complications indicates that genetics may also play a role in causing complications such as diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy. Non diabetic offspring of type 2 diabetics have been found to have increased arterial stiffness and neuropathy despite normal blood glucose levels and elevated enzyme levels associated with diabetic renal disease have been found in non diabetic first degree relatives of diabetics. Even rapid tightening of blood glucose levels has been shown to worsen rather than improve diabetic complications though it has usually been held that complications would improve over time with more normal blood sugar provided this could be maintained. However. one study continued for 41 months found that the initial worsening of complications from improved glucose control was not followed by the expected improvement in the complications.

The damage to small blood vessels leads to a microangiopathy which can cause one or more of the following diabetic retinopathy diabetic neuropathy diabetic amyotrophy diabetic nephropathy diabetic cardiomyopathy coronary artery disease stroke mainly the ischemic type peripheral vascular disease diabetic myonecrosis diabetic foot carotid artery stenosis and diabetic encephalopathy.

The following autoimmune inflammatory diseases may exhibit a CAD component and thus many be subject to diagnosis treatment according to the present invention rheumatoid arthritis Sj gren s syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus chronic leukocytic leukemia juvenile onset diabetes mellitus Wegener s granulomatosis inflammatory bowel disease polymyositis dermatomyositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt s syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis Graves disease thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia gastric atrophy chronic hepatitis lupoid hepatitis atherosclerosis presenile dementia demyelinating diseases multiple sclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler s syndrome myasthenia gravis autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia arcata pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysmotility sclerodactyl and telangiectasia adult onset diabetes mellitus Type II diabetes male and female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondolytis ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nedosa systemic necrotizing vasculitis juvenile onset rheumatoid arthritis glomerulonephritis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture s syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion anti phospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme post cardiotomy syndrome Cushing s syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung allergic disease allergic encephalomyelitis toxic epidermal necrolysis alopecia Alport s syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum transfusion reaction leprosy malaria leishmaniasis trypanosomiasis Takayasu s arteritis polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis schistosomiasis giant cell arteritis ascariasis aspergillosis Sampter s syndrome eczema lymphomatoid granulomatosis Behcet s disease Caplan s syndrome Kawasaki s disease dengue encephalomyelitis endocarditis endomyocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum et diutinum psoriasis erythroblastosis fetalis eosinophilic faciitis Shulman s syndrome Felty s syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochronic cyclitis Fuch s cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein purpura glomerulonephritis graft versus host disease transplantation rejection human immunodeficiency virus infection echovirus infection cardiomyopathy Alzheimer s disease parvovirus infection rubella virus infection post vaccination syndromes congenital rubella infection Hodgkin s and Non Hodgkin s lymphoma renal cell carcinoma multiple myeloma Eaton Lambert syndrome relapsing polychondritis malignant melanoma cryoglobulinemia Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia Epstein Barr virus infection mumps Evan s syndrome and autoimmune gonadal failure.

Low density lipoprotein LDL is a type of lipoprotein that transports cholesterol and triglycerides from the liver to peripheral tissues. LDL is one of the five major groups of lipoproteins these groups include chylomicrons very low density lipoprotein VLDL intermediate density lipoprotein IDL low density lipoprotein and high density lipoprotein HDL although some alternative organizational schemes have been proposed. Like all lipoproteins LDL enables fats and cholesterol to move within the water based solution of the blood stream. LDL also regulates cholesterol synthesis at these sites.

Each native LDL particle contains a single apolipoprotein B 100 molecule Apo B 100 a protein with 4536 amino acid residues which circulates the fatty acids keeping them soluble in the aqueous environment. In addition LDL has a highly hydrophobic core consisting of polyunsaturated fatty acid known as linoleate and about 1500 esterified cholesterol molecules. This core is surrounded by a shell of phospholipids and unesterified cholesterol as well as a single copy of B 100 large protein 514 kD . LDL particles are approximately 22 nm in diameter and have a mass of about 3 million daltons but since LDL particles contain a changing number of fatty acids they actually have a mass and size distribution.

LDL particles vary in size and density and studies have shown that a pattern that has more small dense LDL particles called pattern B equates to a higher risk factor for coronary heart disease CHD than does a pattern with more of the larger and less dense LDL particles pattern A . This is because the smaller particles are more easily able to penetrate the endothelium. Pattern I meaning intermediate indicates that most LDL particles are very close in size to the normal gaps in the endothelium 26 nm . The correspondence between pattern B and CHD has been suggested by some in the medical community to be stronger than the correspondence between the LDL number measured in the standard lipid profile test. Tests to measure these LDL subtype patterns have been more expensive and not widely available so the common lipid profile test has been used more commonly. There has also been noted a correspondence between higher triglyceride levels and higher levels of smaller denser LDL particles and alternately lower triglyceride levels and higher levels of the larger less dense LDL.

When a cell requires cholesterol it synthesizes the necessary LDL receptors and inserts them into the plasma membrane. The LDL receptors diffuse freely until they associate with clathrin coated pits. LDL particles in the blood stream bind to these extracellular LDL receptors. The clathrin coated pits then form vesicles that are endocytosed into the cell. After the clathrin coat is shed the vesicles deliver the LDL and their receptors to early endosomes onto late endosomes to lysosomes. Here the cholesterol esters in the LDL are hydrolysed. The LDL receptors are recycled back to the plasma membrane.

Because LDLs transport cholesterol to the arteries and can be retained there by arterial proteoglycans starting the formation of plaques increased levels are associated with atherosclerosis and thus heart attack stroke and peripheral vascular disease. For this reason cholesterol inside LDL lipoproteins is often called bad cholesterol. This is a misnomer. The cholesterol transported on LDL is the same as cholesterol transported on other lipoprotein particles. The cholesterol itself is not bad rather it is how and where the cholesterol is being transported and in what amounts over time that causes adverse effects.

Increasing evidence has revealed that the concentration and size of the LDL particles more powerfully relates to the degree of atherosclerosis progression than the concentration of cholesterol contained within all the LDL particles. The healthiest pattern though relatively rare is to have small numbers of large LDL particles and no small particles. Having small LDL particles though common is an unhealthy pattern high concentrations of small LDL particles even though potentially carrying the same total cholesterol content as a low concentration of large particles correlates with much faster growth of atheroma progression of atherosclerosis and earlier and more severe cardiovascular disease events and death.

LDL is formed as VLDL lipoproteins lose triglyceride through the action of lipoprotein lipase LPL and become smaller and denser containing a higher proportion of cholesterol. A hereditary form of high LDL is familial hypercholesterolemia FH . Increased LDL is termed hyperlipoproteinemia type II after the dated Fredrickson classification . LDL poses a risk for cardiovascular disease when it invades the endothelium and becomes oxidized since the oxidized form is more easily retained by the proteoglycans. A complex set of biochemical reactions regulates the oxidation of LDL chiefly stimulated by presence of free radicals in the endothelium. Nitric oxide down regulates this oxidation process catalyzed by L arginine. In a corresponding manner when there are high levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine in the endothelium production of nitric oxide is inhibited and more LDL oxidation occurs.

The use of statins HMG CoA reductase inhibitors is effective against high levels of LDL cholesterol. Statins inhibit the enzyme HMG CoA reductase in the liver the rate limiting step of cholesterol synthesis. To compensate for the decreased cholesterol availability synthesis of LDL receptors is increased resulting in an increased clearance of LDL from the blood.

Niacin B lowers LDL by selectively inhibiting hepatic diacyglycerol acyltransferase 2 reducing triglyceride synthesis and VLDL secretion through a receptor HM74 and HM74A or GPR109A.

Tocotrienols especially and tocotrienols have been shown to be effective nutritional agents to treat high cholesterol in recent research programs. In particular tocotrienol appears to act on a specific enzyme called 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase HMG CoA reductase and suppresses the production of this enzyme which results in less cholesterol being manufactured by liver cells. This decrease in hepatic liver LDL levels causes hepatic LDL receptor up regulation further decreasing plasma LDL levels as it is taken in by the liver.

Insulin induces HMG CoA reductase activity whereas glucagon downregulates it. While glucagon production is stimulated by dietary protein ingestion insulin production is stimulated by dietary carbohydrate. The rise of insulin is in general determined by the digestion of carbohydrates into glucose and subsequent increase in serum glucose levels. Glucagon levels are very low when insulin levels are high.

A ketogenic diet may have similar response to taking niacin lowered LDL and increased HDL through beta hydroxybutyrate a ketone body coupling the niacin receptor HM74A . Lowering the blood lipid concentration of triglycerides helps lower the amount of LDL because VLDL gets converted in the bloodstream into LDL. Fructose a component of sucrose as well as high fructose corn syrup upregulates hepatic VLDL synthesis. Because LDL appears to be harmless until oxidized by free radicals it is postulated that ingesting antioxidants and minimizing free radical exposure may reduce LDL s contribution to atherosclerosis though results are not conclusive.

Chemical measures of lipid concentration have long been the most used clinical measurement not because they have the best correlation with individual outcome but because these lab methods are less expensive and more widely available. However there is increasing evidence and recognition of the value of more sophisticated measurements. To be specific LDL particle number concentration and to a lesser extent size have shown much tighter correlation with atherosclerotic progression and cardiovascular events than is obtained using chemical measures of total LDL concentration contained within the particles. LDL cholesterol concentration can be low yet LDL particle number high and cardiovascular events rates are high. Also LDL cholesterol concentration can be relatively high yet LDL particle number low and cardiovascular events are also low. If LDL particle concentration is tracked against event rates many other statistical correlates of cardiovascular events such as diabetes mellitus obesity and smoking lose much of their additional predictive power.

In the USA the American Heart Association NIH and NCEP provide a set of guidelines for fasting LDL Cholesterol levels estimated or measured and risk for heart disease. As of 2003 these guidelines were 

Over time with more clinical research these recommended levels keep being reduced because LDL reduction including to abnormally low levels has been the most effective strategy for reducing cardiovascular death rates in large double blind randomized clinical trials far more effective than coronary angioplasty stenting or bypass surgery.

For instance for people with known atherosclerosis diseases the 2004 updated American Heart Association NIH and NCEP recommendations are for LDL levels to be lowered to less than 70 mg dL unspecified how much lower. It has been estimated from the results of multiple human pharmacologic LDL lowering trials that LDL should be lowered to about 50 to reduce cardiovascular event rates to near zero. For reference from longitudinal population studies following progression of atherosclerosis related behaviors from early childhood into adulthood it has been discovered that the usual LDL in childhood before the development of fatty streaks is about 35 mg dL.

As discussed above unmodified LDL is not pro atherogenic. Rather it is the modified forms of LDL that induce autoantibodies and contribute to atherosclerosis and CAD. A first form of modified LDL mentioned is oxidized LDL referred to herein as ox LDL. A second form is glycooxidized advanced glycosylation endproducts LDL or AGE LDL. A third form is malondialdehyde modified LDL or MAD LDL.

LDL oxidation affects both the lipid and protein components of LDL. Reactive aldehyde products formed during oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids such as MDA and HNEmalondialdehyde HNE MDA and hydroxynonenal HNE are capable of attaching covalently to the amino groups of lysine residues of ApoB Terkeltaub et al. 1994 Steinbrecher et al. 1984 Steinbrecher 1987 . These modifications are present in oxLDL as well as in LDL isolated from atherosclerotic plaques which reacts with monoclonal antibodies produced in guinea pigs against MDA and HNE lysine Terkeltaub et al. 1994 . It has also been shown that myeloperoxidase MPO induced modifications are immunogenic and the resulting antibodies recognize lipopoproteins deposited in atherosclerotic lesions. Human autoantibodies reacting with oxLDL have also been well characterized Eckel et al. 2002 Game et al. 2003 Binder et al. 2002 . MDA lysine and MPO derived epitopes have been suggested as predominantly involved in the induction of human antibodies Anderson et al. 2002 Palinski et al. 1989 .

Detailed investigations have also been carried out with AGE modified LDL. Advanced glycosylation involves a chain of chemical reactions that starts with the non enzymatic addition of reducing sugars to protein amino groups Schiff base Amadori adducts . If the half life of a protein is sufficiently long additional reactions take place leading to the formation of a heterogeneous family of sugar amino acid adducts AGE Lopes Virella et al. 2005 . LDL like most plasma proteins is susceptible to AGE modification Requena et al. 1997 . AGE modified proteins are immunogenic Schmidt et al. 1995 and the corresponding antibodies raised in laboratory animals have been used for the detection of AGE modified proteins in serum and tissues Ikeda et al. 1998 Onorato et al. 1998 . In humans AGE LDL antibodies have been purified from sera with high antibody titers and characterized as far as isotype distribution avidity and specificity Nakamura et al. 1993 . Of the two best characterized modifications of AGE proteins N carboxymethyl lysine CML and N carboxyethyl lysine CEL CML seems to be the most immunogenic but these data suggest that other epitopes expressed in AGE LDL are immunodominant relatively to CML Anderson et al. 2002 .

Most forms of modified LDL are immunogenic and induce the formation of autoantibodies in humans Virella and Lopes Virella 2003 Virella et al. 2004 . A direct consequence of autoantibody synthesis is the formation of antigen antibody immune complexes IC . detectable both in serum ii and in the atheromatous plaque where both oxLDL and oxLDL antibodies have been found Yla Herttuala et al. 1989 Yla Herttuala et al. 1994 . The antibodies present as part of circulating IC isolated from subjects with type 1 diabetes T1D are predominantly IgG of the pro inflammatory subclasses 1 and 3 Virella et al. 2008 and these auto antibodies preferentially recognize oxLDL MDA LDL and AGE LDL from a large battery of tested LDL modifications unpublished results . In patients with T1D more than 90 of modified LDL circulated as soluble IC not free as previously shown. Only traces of modified lipoproteins were captured in the serum after removal of immune complexes Virella et al. 2005 . In vitro studies have demonstrated that oxLDL IC have pro atherogenic and pro inflammatory properties that greatly exceed those of oxLDL Saad et al. 2006 .

Modified LDL mod LDL are found almost completely in the form of LDL immune complexes in serum and plasma. Thus measurement of mod LDL requires isolation of LDL IC. The present invention can utilize polyethylene glycol PEG precipitation of LDL IC for the isolation of mod LDL followed by column chromatography using a protein G column that binds IC through the antibody moiety. Subsequent to binding of IC mod LDL can be released from the antibodies bound to the column by treatments that disrupt the antibody mod LDL interaction while not disturbing the binding of protein G to the antibody.

Accordingly in one embodiment of the present invention a method for predicting risk of CAD or predicting efficacy of a therapy for CAD is provided. Such methods may rely on the immunologic detection of certain antigenic products within LDL immune complexes namely the modified LDL such as ox LDL and AGE LDL.

Antibodies against modified LDL were prepared in the inventors laboratory and are use to assess the level of these molecules in immune complexes in sample from a subject such as serum or plasma. Both capture immunoassay and competitive immunoassay are useful in assessing LDL content of IC.

In one embodiment antibodies to mod LDL may be immobilized onto a selected surface preferably a surface exhibiting a affinity for this molecule. After washing to remove incompletely adsorbed material it is desirable to bind or coat the assay plate wells with a non specific agent that is known to be antigenically neutral with regard to the test sample e.g. bovine serum albumin BSA casein or solutions of powdered milk. This allows for blocking of non specific adsorption sites on the immobilizing surface and thus reduces the background caused by non specific binding of antibody to the surface. The surface then washed to remove unbound material and the surface is then contacted with the sample to be tested in a manner conducive to specific bidning of the antigen of interest.

Following formation of specific complexes between the immobilized antibodies and mod LDL in the sample and subsequent washing the amount of antigen bound by the immobilized antibody may be determined by subjecting the same to a second antibody having specificity for the mod LDL that is distinct from the first antibody. Appropriate conditions preferably include diluting the sample with diluents such as BSA bovine gamma globulin BGG and phosphate buffered saline PBS Tween . These added agents also tend to assist in the reduction of non specific background. The detecting antibody is then allowed to incubate for from about 2 to about 4 hr at temperatures preferably on the order of about 21 to about 23 C. Following incubation the surface is washed so as to remove unbound reagents. A preferred washing procedure includes washing with a solution such as PBS Tween or borate buffer.

To provide a detecting means the second antibody will preferably have an associated enzyme such as a urease or peroxidase that will generate a color development upon incubating with an appropriate chromogenic substrate. After incubation with the second enzyme tagged antibody and subsequent to washing to remove unbound material the amount of label is quantified by incubation with a chromogenic substrate such as urea and bromocresol purple or 2 2 azino di 3 ethyl benzthiazoline 6 sulfonic acid ABTS and HO in the case of peroxidase as the enzyme label. Quantitation is then achieved by measuring the degree of color generation e.g. using a visible spectrum spectrophotometer. Other potential labels include isotopes fluorescent labels dyes and chemilluminescent molecules e.g. luciferase .

Another format involves the use of the same primary antibody coated surface as above. However rather than provide a secondary antibody for detection purposes known amounts of labeled mod LDL will be included in the mixture containing the target sample. By measuring the amount of bound labeled mod LDL one can determine the amount of unlabeled mod LDL i.e. the test level. Such an assay is termed a competitive immunoassay as the labeled known and unlabeled test mod LDL compete with each other for antibody binding.

By exploiting the intrinsic properties of mass and charge mass spectrometry MS can resolve and confidently identify a wide variety of complex compounds including nucleic acids and proteins. Traditional quantitative MS has used electrospray ionization ESI followed by tandem MS MS MS Chen et al. 2001 Zhong et al. 2001 Wu et al. 2000 while newer quantitative methods are being developed using matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI followed by time of flight TOF MS Bucknall et al. 2002 Mirgorodskaya et al. 2000 Gobom et al. 2000 .

ESI is a convenient ionization technique developed by Fenn and colleagues Fenn et al. 1989 that is used to produce gaseous ions from highly polar mostly nonvolatile biomolecules including lipids. The sample is injected as a liquid at low flow rates 1 10 L min through a capillary tube to which a strong electric field is applied. The field generates additional charges to the liquid at the end of the capillary and produces a fine spray of highly charged droplets that are electrostatically attracted to the mass spectrometer inlet. The evaporation of the solvent from the surface of a droplet as it travels through the desolvation chamber increases its charge density substantially. When this increase exceeds the Rayleigh stability limit ions are ejected and ready for MS analysis.

A typical conventional ESI source consists of a metal capillary of typically 0.1 0.3 mm in diameter with a tip held approximately 0.5 to 5 cm but more usually 1 to 3 cm away from an electrically grounded circular interface having at its center the sampling orifice such as described by Kabarle et al. 1993 . A potential difference of between 1 to 5 kV but more typically 2 to 3 kV is applied to the capillary by power supply to generate a high electrostatic field 10to 10V m at the capillary tip. A sample liquid carrying the analyte to be analyzed by the mass spectrometer is delivered to the tip through an internal passage from a suitable source such as from a chromatograph or directly from a sample solution via a liquid flow controller . By applying pressure to the sample in the capillary the liquid leaves the capillary tip as small highly electrically charged droplets and further undergoes desolvation and breakdown to form single or multicharged gas phase ions in the form of an ion beam. The ions are then collected by the grounded or negatively charged interface plate and led through an the orifice into an analyzer of the mass spectrometer. During this operation the voltage applied to the capillary is held constant. Aspects of construction of ESI sources are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 838 002 5 788 166 5 757 994 RE 35 413 and 5 986 258.

In ESI tandem mass spectroscopy ESI MS MS one is able to simultaneously analyze both precursor ions and product ions thereby monitoring a single precursor product reaction and producing through selective reaction monitoring SRM a signal only when the desired precursor ion is present. When the internal standard is a stable isotope labeled version of the analyte this is known as quantification by the stable isotope dilution method. This approach has been used to accurately measure pharmaceuticals Zweigenbaum et al. 2000 Zweigenbaum et al. 1999 and bioactive peptides Desiderio et al. 1996 Lovelace et al. 1991 . Newer methods are performed on widely available MALDI TOF instruments which can resolve a wider mass range and have been used to quantify metabolites peptides and proteins. Larger molecules such as peptides can be quantified using unlabeled homologous peptides as long as their chemistry is similar to the analyte peptide Duncan et al. 1993 Bucknall et al. 2002 . Protein quantification has been achieved by quantifying tryptic peptides Mirgorodskaya et al. 2000 . Complex mixtures such as crude extracts can be analyzed but in some instances sample clean up is required Nelson et al. 1994 Gobom et al. 2000 .

Secondary ion mass spectroscopy or SIMS is an analytical method that uses ionized particles emitted from a surface for mass spectroscopy at a sensitivity of detection of a few parts per billion. The sample surface is bombarded by primary energetic particles such as electrons ions e.g. O Cs neutrals or even photons forcing atomic and molecular particles to be ejected from the surface a process called sputtering. Since some of these sputtered particles carry a charge a mass spectrometer can be used to measure their mass and charge. Continued sputtering permits measuring of the exposed elements as material is removed. This in turn permits one to construct elemental depth profiles. Although the majority of secondary ionized particles are electrons it is the secondary ions which are detected and analyzed by the mass spectrometer in this method.

Laser desorption mass spectroscopy LD MS involves the use of a pulsed laser which induces desorption of sample material from a sample site effectively this means vaporization of sample off of the sample substrate. This method is usually only used in conjunction with a mass spectrometer and can be performed simultaneously with ionization if one uses the right laser radiation wavelength.

When coupled with Time of Flight TOF measurement LD MS is referred to as LDLPMS Laser Desorption Laser Photoionization Mass Spectroscopy . The LDLPMS method of analysis gives instantaneous volatilization of the sample and this form of sample fragmentation permits rapid analysis without any wet extraction chemistry. The LDLPMS instrumentation provides a profile of the species present while the retention time is low and the sample size is small. In LDLPMS an impactor strip is loaded into a vacuum chamber. The pulsed laser is fired upon a certain spot of the sample site and species present are desorbed and ionized by the laser radiation. This ionization also causes the molecules to break up into smaller fragment ions. The positive or negative ions made are then accelerated into the flight tube being detected at the end by a microchannel plate detector. Signal intensity or peak height is measured as a function of travel time. The applied voltage and charge of the particular ion determines the kinetic energy and separation of fragments are due to different size causing different velocity. Each ion mass will thus have a different flight time to the detector.

One can either form positive ions or negative ions for analysis. Positive ions are made from regular direct photoionization but negative ion formation requires a higher powered laser and a secondary process to gain electrons. Most of the molecules that come off the sample site are neutrals and thus can attract electrons based on their electron affinity. The negative ion formation process is less efficient than forming just positive ions. The sample constituents will also affect the outlook of a negative ion spectra.

Other advantages with the LDLPMS method include the possibility of constructing the system to give a quiet baseline of the spectra because one can prevent coevolved neutrals from entering the flight tube by operating the instrument in a linear mode.

Since its inception and commercial availability the versatility of MALDI TOF MS has been demonstrated convincingly by its extensive use for qualitative analysis. For example MALDI TOF MS has been employed for the characterization of synthetic polymers Marie et al. 2000 Wu et al. 1998 . peptide and protein analysis Roepstorff 2000 Nguyen et al. 1995 DNA and oligonucleotide sequencing Miketova et al. 1997 Faulstich et al. 1997 Bentzley et al. 1996 and the characterization of recombinant proteins Kanazawa et al. 1999 Villanueva et al. 1999 . Recently applications of MALDI TOF MS have been extended to include the direct analysis of biological tissues and single cell organisms with the aim of characterizing endogenous peptide and protein constituents Lynn et al. 1999 Stoeckli et al. 2001 Caprioli et al. 1997 Chaurand et al. 1999 Jespersen et al. 1999 .

The properties that make MALDI TOF MS a popular qualitative tool its ability to analyze molecules across an extensive mass range high sensitivity minimal sample preparation and rapid analysis times also make it a potentially useful quantitative tool. MALDI TOF MS also enables non volatile and thermally labile molecules to be analyzed with relative ease. It is therefore prudent to explore the potential of MALDI TOF MS for quantitative analysis in clinical settings. While there have been reports of quantitative MALDI TOF MS applications there are many problems inherent to the MALDI ionization process that have restricted its widespread use Kazmaier et al. 1998 Horak et al. 2001 Gobom et al. 2000 Desiderio et al. 2000 . These limitations primarily stem from factors such as the sample matrix heterogeneity which are believed to contribute to the large variability in observed signal intensities for analytes the limited dynamic range due to detector saturation and difficulties associated with coupling MALDI TOF MS to on line separation techniques such as liquid chromatography. Combined these factors are thought to compromise the accuracy precision and utility with which quantitative determinations can be made.

Because of these difficulties practical examples of quantitative applications of MALDI TOF MS have been limited. Most of the studies to date have focused on the quantification of low mass analytes in particular alkaloids or active ingredients in agricultural or food products Jiang et al. 2000 Yang et al. 2000 Wittmann et al. 2001 whereas other studies have demonstrated the potential of MALDI TOF MS for the quantification of biologically relevant analytes such as neuropeptides proteins antibiotics or various metabolites in biological tissue or fluid Muddiman et al. 1996 Nelson et al. 1994 Duncan et al. 1993 Gobom et al. 2000 Wu et al. 1997 Mirgorodskaya et al. 2000 . In earlier work it was shown that linear calibration curves could be generated by MALDI TOF MS provided that an appropriate internal standard was employed Duncan et al. 1993 . This standard can correct for both sample to sample and shot to shot variability. Stable isotope labeled internal standards isotopomers give the best result.

With the marked improvement in resolution available on modern commercial instruments primarily because of delayed extraction Bahr et al. 1997 Takach et al. 1997 the opportunity to extend quantitative work to other examples is now possible not only of low mass analytes but also biopolymers such as proteins.

In the context of the present invention it is useful to utilize gas chromatography to measure cholesterol to normalize the amount of LDL is a given quantity of a sample. Gas liquid chromatograpy GLC or simply gas chromatography GC is a common type of chromatography used in analytic chemistry for separating and analyzing compounds that can be vaporized without decomposition. Gas chromatography is also sometimes known as vapor phase chromatography VPC or gas liquid partition chromatography GLPC . Typical uses of GC include testing the purity of a particular substance or separating the different components of a mixture the relative amounts of such components can also be determined . In some situations GC may help in identifying a compound. In preparative chromatography GC can be used to prepare pure compounds from a mixture.

In gas chromatography the moving or mobile phase is a carrier gas usually an inert gas such as helium or an unreactive gas such as nitrogen. The stationary phase is a microscopic layer of liquid or polymer on an inert solid support inside a piece of glass or metal tubing called a column an homage to the fractionating column used in distillation . The instrument used to perform gas chromatography is called a gas chromatograph.

The gaseous compounds being analyzed interact with the walls of the column which is coated with different stationary phases. This causes each compound to elute at a different time known as the retention time of the compound. The comparison of retention times is what gives GC its analytical usefulness.

Gas chromatography is in principle similar to column chromatography as well as other forms of chromatography such as HPLC TLC but has several notable differences. Firstly the process of separating the compounds in a mixture is carried out between a liquid stationary phase and a gas moving phase whereas in column chromatography the stationary phase is a solid and the moving phase is a liquid. Hence the full name of the procedure is gas liquid chromatography referring to the mobile and stationary phases respectively. Secondly the column through which the gas phase passes is located in an oven where the temperature of the gas can be controlled whereas column chromatography typically has no such temperature control. Thirdly the concentration of a compound in the gas phase is solely a function of the vapor pressure of the gas.

Gas chromatography is also similar to fractional distillation since both processes separate the components of a mixture primarily based on boiling point or vapor pressure differences. However fractional distillation is typically used to separate components of a mixture on a large scale whereas GC can be used on a much smaller scale i.e. microscale .

In a GC analysis a known volume of gaseous or liquid analyte is injected into the entrance head of the column usually using a microsyringe or solid phase microextraction fibers or a gas source switching system . As the carrier gas sweeps the analyte molecules through the column this motion is inhibited by the adsorption of the analyte molecules either onto the column walls or onto packing materials in the column. The rate at which the molecules progress along the column depends on the strength of adsorption which in turn depends on the type of molecule and on the stationary phase materials. Since each type of molecule has a different rate of progression the various components of the analyte mixture are separated as they progress along the column and reach the end of the column at different times retention time . A detector is used to monitor the outlet stream from the column thus the time at which each component reaches the outlet and the amount of that component can be determined. Generally substances are identified qualitatively by the order in which they emerge elute from the column and by the retention time of the analyte in the column.

Gel electrophoresis is a technique used for the separation of deoxyribonucleic acid DNA ribonucleic acid RNA or protein molecules using an electric current applied to a gel matrix. DNA Gel electrophoresis is usually performed for analytical purposes but may be used as a preparative technique prior to use of other methods such as mass spectrometry RFLP PCR cloning DNA sequencing or Southern blotting for further characterization.

The term gel in this instance refers to the matrix used to contain then separate the target molecules. In most cases the gel is a crosslinked polymer whose composition and porosity is chosen based on the specific weight and composition of the target to be analyzed. When separating proteins or small nucleic acids DNA RNA or oligonucleotides the gel is usually composed of different concentrations of acrylamide and a cross linker producing different sized mesh networks of polyacrylamide. Agarose is composed of long unbranched chains of uncharged carbohydrate without cross links resulting in a gel with large pores allowing for the separation of macromolecules and macromolecular complexes.

 Electrophoresis refers to the electromotive force EMF that is used to move the molecules through the gel matrix. By placing the molecules in wells in the gel and applying an electric current the molecules will move through the matrix at different rates determined largely by their mass when the charge to mass ratio Z of all species is uniform toward the anode if negatively charged or toward the cathode if positively charged.

After the electrophoresis is complete the molecules in the gel can be stained to make them visible. Ethidium bromide silver or coomassie blue dye may be used for this process. Other methods may also be used to visualize the separation of the mixture s components on the gel. If the analyte molecules fluoresce under ultraviolet light a photograph can be taken of the gel under ultraviolet lighting conditions. If the molecules to be separated contain radioactivity added for visibility an autoradiogram can be recorded of the gel.

If several mixtures have initially been injected next to each other they will run parallel in individual lanes. Depending on the number of different molecules each lane shows separation of the components from the original mixture as one or more distinct bands one band per component. Incomplete separation of the components can lead to overlapping bands or to indistinguishable smears representing multiple unresolved components.

Bands in different lanes that end up at the same distance from the top contain molecules that passed through the gel with the same speed which usually means they are approximately the same size. There are molecular weight size markers available that contain a mixture of molecules of known sizes. If such a marker was run on one lane in the gel parallel to the unknown samples the bands observed can be compared to those of the unknown in order to determine their size. The distance a band travels is approximately inversely proportional to the logarithm of the size of the molecule.

As can be seen below in the Examples Tables 1 9 the normal lower quartile levels for ox LDL IC are 5 89 mg ml for AGE LDL IC are 0.15 2.64 mg ml and for MDA LDL IC are 3 43 mg ml. The concentrations of the modified LDL in these immune complexes are normalized per g of LDL Apolipoprotein B or per g of LDL cholesterol and the total level of IC per ml of serum is calculated by multiplying the modified LDL levels by the total level of cholesterol or Apolipoprotein B in the IC precipitated from one ml of serum.

In other embodiments of the present invention methods for treating CAD are provided either alone or in conjunction with the methods set forth above to assess efficacy of the treatment. Also contemplated are combination therapies see below .

As used herein by an effective amount or a therapeutically effective amount of a drug or active agent e.g. an antibody or antifungal drug is meant a non toxic but sufficient amount of the drug or agent to provide the desired effect i.e. reducing or eliminating fungal cell growth differentiation or dissemination. It is recognized that the effective amount of a drug or active agent will vary depending on the route of administration the selected drug or active agent and the species to which the drug or pharmacologically active agent is administered. It is also recognized that one of skill in the art will determine appropriate effective amounts by taking into account such factors as metabolism bioavailability and other factors that affect plasma levels of the drug or active agent. A drug or active agent may be administered by any route of administration sufficient to achieve the desired effect including by aerosol or intravenous administration.

Therapeutic options for coronary artery disease today are based on three principles medical treatment drugs e.g. cholesterol lowering medications beta blockers nitroglycerin calcium antagonists etc. coronary interventions as angioplasty and coronary stent implantation and coronary artery bypass grafting CABG coronary artery bypass surgery . Recent research efforts focus on new angiogenic treatment modalities angiogenesis and various adult stem cell therapies.

Aspirin in doses of less than 75 to 81 mg d can reduce the incidence of cardiovascular events. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force strongly recommends that clinicians discuss aspirin chemoprevention with adults who are at increased risk for coronary artery disease. The Task Force defines increased risk as men older than 40 years of age postmenopausal women and younger persons with risk factors for coronary artery disease for example hypertension diabetes or smoking are at increased risk for heart disease and may wish to consider aspirin therapy. More specifically high risk persons are those with a 5 year risk 3 .

The principal treatment of type 1 diabetes even in its earliest stages is the delivery of artificial insulin via injection combined with careful monitoring of blood glucose levels using blood testing monitors. Without insulin diabetic ketoacidosis often develops which may result in coma or death. Treatment emphasis is now also placed on lifestyle adjustments diet and exercise though these cannot reverse the progress of the disease. Apart from the common subcutaneous injections it is also possible to deliver insulin by a pump which allows continuous infusion of insulin 24 hours a day at preset levels and the ability to program doses a bolus of insulin as needed at meal times. An inhaled form of insulin was approved by the FDA in January 2006 although it was discontinued for business reasons in October 2007. Non insulin treatments such as monoclonal antibodies and stem cell based therapies are effective in animal models but have not yet completed clinical trials in humans.

Type 1 treatment must be continued indefinitely in essentially all cases. Treatment need not significantly impair normal activities if sufficient patient training awareness appropriate care discipline in testing and dosing of insulin is taken. However treatment is burdensome for patients insulin is replaced in a non physiological manner and this approach is therefore far from ideal. The average glucose level for the type 1 patient should be as close to normal 80 120 mg dl 4 6 mmol L as is safely possible. Some physicians suggest up to 140 150 mg dl 7 7.5 mmol L for those having trouble with lower values such as frequent hypoglycemic events. Values above 400 mg dl 20 mmol L are sometimes accompanied by discomfort and frequent urination leading to dehydration. Values above 600 mg dl 30 mmol L usually require medical treatment and may lead to ketoacidosis although they are not immediately life threatening. However low levels of blood glucose called hypoglycemia may lead to seizures or episodes of unconsciousness and absolutely must be treated immediately via emergency high glucose gel placed in the patient s mouth intravenous administration of dextrose or an injection of glucagon.

Autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders are typically treated by anti inflammatory agents immunosuppressive agents or combinations thereof.

Immunosuppressive agents include glucocorticoids cytostatics alkylating agents cyclophosphamide nitrosoureas platinum compounds antimetabolites folic acid analogues such as methotrexate purine analogues such as azathioprine and mercaptopurine pyrimidine analogues protein synthesis inhibitors cytotoxic antibiotics dactinomycin anthracyclines mitomycin C bleomycin mithramycin humanzied monoclonal antibodies e.g. anti CD20 anti CD25 anti CD3 T cell receptor directed antibodies cyclosporin tacrolimus sirolimus rapamycin trade name Rapamune interferons opioids TNF binding proteins mycophenolate and small biological agents Fingolimod Myriocin .

Anti inflammatory agents include steroids specifically glucocorticoids non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs including aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen.

In order improve the performance of a given therapy one may combine distinct therapeutic modalities with hope of providing additive and possibly synergistic affects or to achieve an effective therapy a doses lower than that required for either agent alone. This process may involve administering both agents at the same time. This may be achieved by administering a single composition or pharmacological formulation that includes both agents or by administering two distinct compositions or formulations at the same time.

Alternatively one agent may precede or follow the other agent treatment by intervals ranging from minutes to weeks. In embodiments where the other agents are applied separately one would generally ensure that a significant period of time did not expire between the time of each delivery such that the agents would still be able to exert an advantageously combined effect. In such instances it is contemplated that one would administer both modalities within about 12 24 hours of each other and more preferably within about 6 12 hours of each other with a delay time of only about 12 hours being most preferred. In some situations it may be desirable to extend the time period for treatment significantly however where several days 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 to several weeks 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 lapse between the respective administrations.

It also is conceivable that more than one administration of either the antibody or the other agent will be desired. Various combinations may be employed where the first agent is A and the second agent is B as exemplified below 

The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

This study was performed on a subgroup of 479 subjects from the DCCT EDIC cohort. The DCCT cohort included 1 441 patients who were 13 39 years of age and had Type 1 diabetes for 1 15 years at study entry The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Res. Group 1993 . None of the patients at entry into the study 1983 89 had hypertension or dyslipidemia and therefore were not on lipid lowering or anti hypertensive therapy.

The DCCT cohort was randomly assigned to intensive or conventional diabetes therapy and followed for an average of 6.5 years. In 1994 after intensive therapy had been demonstrated to have major beneficial effects on microvascular complications the interventional phase of the study was stopped and the observational phase was initiated Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 . During the ongoing EDIC observational phase the patients have been under the care of their personal physicians and encouraged to practice intensive diabetes therapy.

Of the 1441 DCCT participants 90 95 were followed during EDIC and 905 of these individuals had blood collected longitudinally as part of a sub study. From these 905 subjects 518 patients were selected for a case control study of LDL IC and albuminuria. Patients with at least 2 measurements of AER above 60 mg 24 hrs were selected as cases and 3 4 patients without albuminuria per patient with albuminuria were selected as controls. Of the 518 with LDL IC measured 479 had IMT measured during EDIC Hodis et al. 1998 .

Serum samples were obtained after an overnight fast at entry into the DCCT study and assayed at the time or stored at 80 C. The DCCT and EDIC were approved by the Institutional Review Board of all participating DCCT EDIC centers and all participants provided written informed consent.

Carotid ultrasonography was first performed 1 2 years after initiation of EDIC 5 13 years after DCCT baseline and repeated 5 years later. The measurement of IMT in the DCCT EDIC cohort has been described in detail Nathan et al. 2003 Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC Research Group 1999 . In brief a single longitudinal lateral view of the distal 10 mm of the right and left common carotid arteries CCA and three longitudinal views in different imaging planes of each internal carotid artery ICA were obtained by certified technicians at the clinical centers recorded on S VHS tapes and read in a central unit Tufts Medical Center Boston Mass. by a single reader masked to participant characteristics. The maximum IMT mm of the CCA was defined as the mean of the maximum IMT for near and far walls on both right and left sides. The maximum IMT of the ICA was defined in the same way and the results of the three scans i.e. anterior lateral and posterior views of both sides were averaged.

The inventors measured oxLDL MDA LDL and AGE LDL by first precipitating circulating immune complexes from serum and then fractionating these IC by protein G affinity chromatography separating the predominant IgG antibody from modified LDL as previously described Virella et al. 2008 Lopez Virella et al. 2007 . The reactivity of modified LDL separated from LDL IC with antibodies specific for different LDL modifications oxLDL MDA LDL and AGE LDL was then assayed with capture assays developed in the inventors laboratory Virella et al. 2005 . The characteristics of the antibodies used in the assay and the specificity and reproducibility of the capture assays have been previously reported Virella et al. 2004 Virella et al. 2005 . Coefficients of variation for 50 samples measured in two separate assays were 5.2 for oxLDL 0.5 for MDA LDL and 8.3 for AGE LDL. The development of standards for calibration of the oxLDL MDA LDL and AGE LDL assays as well as sensitivity reproducibility and recovery data for the capture assays have been reported elsewhere Virella et al. 2005 . The levels of the different LDL modifications in human circulating IC were expressed in function of the amount of apolipoprotein B contained in the IC and the final values given as the concentration per mL of serum.

At baseline DCCT each participant completed a standardized medical history physical examination electrocardiogram and laboratory testing including hemoglobin A1c Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 fasting lipid profiles and 4 hour urine collections for measurement of AER and creatinine clearance. Covariates for the current analyses were obtained from DCCT baseline history physical examination and laboratory data fasting lipids and renal function . The methodologies to measure conventional CVD risk factors have been described elsewhere Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Retinopathy status at baseline was assessed with stereo fundus photography Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Res. Group 1991 .

Prospective analyses were carried out in which the levels of oxLDL AGE LDL and MDA LDL in LDL IC measured at baseline DCCT functioned as a biomarker for individual s levels of LDL degree of oxidative stress and immune response and internal and common IMT levels 8 14 years later EDIC years 1 and 6 were the outcomes of interest. All modified LDL values were standardized to mg of Apolipoprotein B per L of serum and are expressed as mg L in addition modified LDL values were log transformed due to their skewed non normal distribution. Spearman correlations were determined for modified LDL levels and baseline DCCT variables of interest. Means and proportions adjusted for treatment group retinopathy status age and sex were determined for participant DCCT baseline characteristics stratified by modified LDL quartile using linear and logistic regression as appropriate. Linear regression was used to determine estimates of the coefficient and semi partial Rfor the relationship between the level of each type of modified LDL measured in LDL IC and internal and common IMT ICA and CCA IMT measurements at EDIC years 1 and 6 and to calculate least square means for EDIC year 1 and 6 ICA CCA IMT across quartiles of each modified LDL. Trends in both internal and common IMT across quartiles of each modified LDL were tested using a F statistic obtained from a generalized linear model adjusted for treatment group retinopathy cohort age sex diabetes duration hemoglobin A1c logarithm of AER and ultrasonography equipment.

Logistic regression was used to model the odds ratio associated with being in the upper versus lower measurements of ICA IMT i.e. high versus normal at EDIC year 6. For logistic regression analysis each IC was categorized into quartiles. The association between modified LDL quartiles and being in the upper quintile of ICA IMT was assessed separately for modified LDL after controlling for the covariates included in the linear regression models with the addition of LDL and HDL cholesterol systolic and diastolic blood pressure and current smoking status. Additionally for each IC studied appropriate interaction terms were used to determine whether covariates modified the relationship between each type of modified LDL and having high ICA IMT at EDIC Year 6. Finally the c statistic or area under the receiver operating curve ROC AUC was used to compare the discriminatory power of various multivariate models. Reported p values are two sided with a type I error rate for significance of 0.05. All analysis were performed using SAS v. 9.2 SAS Institute Cary N.C. USA .

At DCCT baseline the mean age of the study population was 27.1 7.0 years the mean duration of diabetes was 6.0 4.2 years 247 51.6 of the 479 subjects studied were males and 45.7 were assigned to the DCCT intensive treatment group. Comparing DCCT baseline characteristics of the 479 subjects with the remaining DCCT cohort show that duration of diabetes was longer they were more likely to have retinopathy at baseline and body mass index and AER were higher. Blood pressure lipid and hemoglobin A1c as well as age gender drinking and smoking status were similar in those included and excluded in this study s subcohort.

At DCCT baseline the levels of oxLDL AGE LDL and MDA LDL in isolated LDL IC were significantly correlated with diabetes duration BMI lipid and blood pressure levels but not with age. Correlations with LDL cholesterol while statistically significant were of moderate magnitude r 0.15 to 0.23 p

The percentage of men increased with increasing quartiles of oxLDL in LDL IC Table 1 . After adjusting for treatment group retinopathy status age and gender the duration of diabetes remained similar while BMI hemoglobin A1c LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels increased across quartiles of oxLDL in LDL IC. HDL cholesterol levels decreased across increasing quartiles of oxLDL in LDL IC. Systolic blood pressure diastolic blood pressure AER and creatinine clearance did not increase or decrease across increasing oxLDL quartiles. Finally neither current smoking status nor alcohol consumption appeared to be associated with oxLDL quartiles.

After adjusting for covariates the concentrations of modified LDL in isolated IC were each significantly associated with EDIC year 1 and EDIC year 6 ICA IMT with higher modified LDL levels predicting higher internal carotid artery IMT Table 2 . For common carotid artery IMT associations were slightly weaker with log MDA LDL failing to predict higher CCA IMT at EDIC year 1 or EDIC year 6. Focusing on mean internal carotid artery IMT levels as the outcome and stratifying by oxLDL quartiles ICA IMT levels increased across oxLDL quartiles at EDIC year 1 Linear Trend Test P

Multivariate logistic regression models were used to further examine the ability of the concentrations of oxLDL and AGE LDL in isolated LDL IC to predict internal carotid artery IMT Table 3 . The outcome high internal carotid artery IMT was defined as being in the upper quintile as compared to the lower 4 quintiles of ICA IMT at EDIC year 6 high IMT defined as 0.845 mm . Individuals in the highest quartile of oxLDL in isolated LDL IC had a 7 fold increased odds 7.72 95 CI 3.27 18.3 of having high versus normal internal carotid artery IMT relative to those in the lowest quartile of oxLDL after controlling for treatment group retinopathy cohort age sex diabetes duration hemoglobin A1c logarithm of AER and ultrasonography equipment. Additionally adjusting for LDL cholesterol HDL cholesterol diastolic blood pressure and smoking status attenuated the odds ratios somewhat to 6.11 95 CI 2.51 14.8 . Parallel analyses for AGE LDL resulted in odds ratios of 7.82 95 CI 3.17 19.3 and 6.40 95 CI 2.53 16.2 respectively. Parallel analyses for MDA LDL not shown in Table 3 resulted in odds ratios of 2.74 95 CI 1.27 5.92 and 2.39 95 CI 1.06 5.38 respectively. None of the covariates examined were found to modify associations between oxLDL or AGE LDL levels in isolated LDL IC and having high internal carotid artery IMT at EDIC year 6.

Finally comparing the discriminatory power of oxLDL and AGE LDL concentrations in isolated LDL IC to that of LDL cholesterol diastolic blood pressure AER and hemoglobin A1c the adjusted odds ratios for having high versus normal internal carotid artery IMT comparing those in the highest versus lowest quartile of LDL cholesterol diastolic blood pressure AER and hemoglobin A1c were 2.62 95 CI 1.24 5.55 1.45 95 CI 0.69 3.03 1.61 95 CI 0.73 3.56 and 2.33 95 CI 1.09 4.99 respectively . Furthermore the areas under the receiver operating curve ROC AUC used as mentioned in methods to compare the discriminatory power of the various multivariate models were 0.750 0.740 0.739 respectively for LDL cholesterol diastolic blood pressure and AER models and 0.747 for the hemoglobin A1c model. In comparison the ROC AUC for the analogous models for oxLDL and AGE LDL in LDL IC were 0.794 and 0.790 respectively.

This study has shown that high levels of oxLDL and AGE LDL in circulating IC even when measured at a very young age and when the patient is completely free of macrovascular disease are strongly predictive of increased intima media thickening over a period of 8 14 years. The associations of the modified lipoprotein levels in circulating IC with internal carotid artery IMT were generally larger than those of classical predictive factors such as albumin excretion rate LDL cholesterol hemoglobin A1c or blood pressure.

The inter correlation between the levels of MDA LDL AGE LDL and oxLDL in circulating IC was to be expected since the precipitated IC are not necessarily made of LDL molecules with single modifications but rather of LDL molecules with multiple epitopes formed by different mechanisms recognized by antibodies of different specificities. Furthermore some of the epitopes such as CML are shared by AGE LDL and oxLDL Virella et al. 2004 . Therefore the inventors measurements reflect the relative distribution of epitopes related to copper oxidation MDA and AGE modifications in the population of modified LDL molecules involved in IC formation. Interestingly the levels of MDA LDL were not as predictive of internal carotid artery IMT. The inventors have shown that copper oxidized LDL contains non MDA epitopes recognized by human antibodies Virella et al. 2004 . This observation suggests that although MDA epitopes are present in modified LDL from isolated IC the antibodies involved in IC formation react predominantly with non MDA epitopes and this could explain why the measurement of oxLDL in isolated LDL IC is a better predictor of CVD.

The pro inflammatory properties of LDL immune complexes have been well characterized Virella and Tsokos 2007 . Their pathogenic potential result from the fact that human modified LDL antibodies are predominantly of the IgG isotype which can diffuse easily across the endothelial barrier. In addition modified LDL antibodies are predominantly of the IgG1 and IgG3 isotypes Virella and Lopes Virella 2003 Virella et al. 2008 Virella et al. 2000 Virella et al. 2003 able to activate the complement system by the classical pathway Michalesen et al. 2009 and to interact with Fcg receptors in phagocytic cells Burton and Woof 1992 specifically macrophages in the vessel wall and therefore promote cell activation and inflammation. Given that both circulating and complexed human autoantibodies to both oxLDL and AGE LDL are predominantly IgG of the IgG1 an IgG3 isotypes Virella and Lopes Virella 2003 Virella et al. 2008 Saad et al 2006 Virella et al. 2000 Virella et al. 2003 it would be fully expected that they could play a pathogenic role in chronic inflammatory processes such as atherosclerosis.

A limitation of this study is that the measurement of modified lipoproteins in IC isolated from peripheral blood is only a surrogate marker for the formation of extravascular IC however it is very likely that these peripheral IC levels are reasonable surrogate markers since both modified LDL and the corresponding antibodies have been identified in atheromatous lesions Yla Herttuala et al. 1980 Yla Herttuala et al. 1994 . A second limitation of the study is that the 479 participants with IC measurements available because selected for a case control study of albuminuria were not a random sample of the entire DCCT EDIC study population. To overcome this selection bias the inventors have controlled for DCCT retinopathy cohort AER diabetes duration and hemoglobin A1C and the inventors determined that covariates including DCCT treatment group were not acting as effect modifiers of associations of interest indicating that the predictive ability of modified LDL IC was similar across different levels of these variables.

The measurement of LDL modifications in isolated IC reflects three important steps in the development of the arteriosclerotic process increased levels of LDL cholesterol clearly associated with the development of atherosclerosis increased oxidation and glycoxidative modification of LDL in diabetes and the impact of the humoral immune response in the inflammatory process associated with atherosclerosis.

While AGE LDL modification is more accentuated in hyperglycemic patients LDL oxidation seems to be a universal event affecting the general population. Also the same predominance of IgG1 and IgG3 oxLDL antibodies has been found in non diabetic patients and healthy controls Mironova et al. 1996 . Therefore the pathogenic role of modified LDL in circulating IC should not be limited to diabetic patients. However it is possible that patients with type 1 diabetes not only generate higher levels of modified LDL through glyco oxidative processes but given the complex constellation of genetic factors associated with their autoimmune disease they could have an enhanced and more potent autoimmune response to modified lipoproteins. It is therefore quite important to investigate whether the same high predictive value of modified LDL in circulating IC for CVD events is also present in type 2 diabetes and in the general population.

Regardless of the results of such studies it is however quite clear that high levels of oxLDL and AGE LDL in circulating IC have a major impact on the progression of carotid IMT in type 1 diabetes and they help to identify patients at high risk for CVD events when the other conventional CVD risk factors are still within or close to normal levels.

The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial DCCT was a randomized controlled trial of 1 441 patients who were 13 39 years of age and had Type 1 diabetes for 1 15 years at study entry The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Tes. Group 1993 . The participants were randomized to intensive or conventional insulin therapy and followed for an average of 6.5 years before the study was stopped early for efficacy by the study s Data and Safety Monitoring Board in 1993. In 1994 approximately 95 of the DCCT participants enrolled into the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC study. EDIC was initiated Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 to assess the development of macrovascular disease in Type 1 diabetes. During the EDIC observational phase all patients were under the care of their personal physicians and encouraged to practice intensive insulin therapy however each EDIC participant underwent a standardized annual history physical examination resting ECG and routine laboratory analysis that included HbAc levels Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Lipid profiles and 4 hour urine collections to measure albumin excretion rates AER were obtained in alternate years Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 .

This study was performed on a subgroup of DCCT EDIC participants to test the hypothesis that DCCT baseline values of modified LDL IC would be associated with subsequent development of albuminuria. To be included in this study participants needed normal 60 mg 24 hr. Participants with normal AER 40 at DCCT baseline or with one single AER measurement over 60 mg 24 hr were excluded from the sampling frame denoted as indeterminate nephropathy status in . A total of 384 patients 82 21 of them considered nephropathy prone met sampling criteria and were included in this analysis.

Fasting serum samples obtained during DCCT EDIC were sent to the DCCT EDIC central laboratory for standard lipid analysis. Aliquots of these samples were archived for future research purposes. In 1999 2000 serum samples collected during DCCT were sent to Medical University of South Carolina by the DCCT EDIC Coordinating Center and NIDDK to complement the serum sample collected during EDIC as part of a Medical University of SC Program Project Grant funded by the NIH JDF. Since sample collection the serum samples collected have been stored at 70 C. and refreezing effects have been minimized by preparing aliquots of the serum when thawed for the first time and using a new frozen aliquot for each new test performed. The Institutional Review Boards at Medical University of South Carolina and all participating DCCT EDIC centers approved the sample collection procedures. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants.

The inventors measured the content of oxLDL and AGE LDL in circulating IC by first precipitating the IC from serum and then fractionating these IC by protein G affinity chromatography separating the predominant IgG antibody from modified LDL as previously described Lopes Virella et al. 2007 Virella et al. 2008 . The reactivity of modified LDL separated from LDL IC with antibodies specific for different LDL modifications oxLDL and AGE LDL was then assayed with capture assays developed in the inventors laboratory Virella et al. 2005 . The characteristics of the antibodies used in the assay and the specificity and reproducibility of the capture assays have been previously reported Virella et al. 2004 . Coefficients of variation for 50 samples measured in two separate assays were 5.2 for oxLDL and 8.3 for AGE LDL. The development of standards for calibration of the oxLDL and AGE LDL assays as well as sensitivity reproducibility and recovery data for the capture assays have been reported elsewhere Virella et al. 2005 . The levels of the different LDL modifications in human circulating IC were expressed in function of the amount of cholesterol contained in the IC and the final values given as the concentration per mL of serum.

Other methods. At the baseline DCCT examination each participant completed a physical examination medical history electrocardiogram and laboratory testing including serum creatinine lipid profile and hemoglobin A1c Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Four hour urine collections for measurement of albumin excretion rate and creatinine clearance were also obtained during EDIC in alternate years Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Baseline covariates for the current analyses were obtained from DCCT baseline history physical examination and laboratory data fasting lipids and renal function . The methodology used to perform all the routine measurements used as conventional risk factors in this study have been performed as part of the DCCT EDIC study and have been described elsewhere as mentioned above Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 The Diabetes Care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1986 .

Standard descriptive statistics were used to summarize the general demographic and clinical data. A Wilcoxon Rank Sum test was used to compare continuous demographic and clinical measures between nephropathy prone and resistant subjects. Pearson chi square test was used to compare categorical variables between the nephropathy prone and resistant groups.

From the 1441 subjects randomized at the DCCT baseline two subsets were selected post hoc to comprise the sample of the 302 nephropathy resistant and the 82 nephropathy prone and thus there was the potential that confounding had been introduced into the study sample by the selection process. To minimize the effects of confounding on the analysis conditional stratified logistic regression was used to quantify the association of modified LDL IC levels with subsequent development of albuminuria nephropathy Agresti 2002 . Baseline AERs values were grouped into deciles and the deciles were used as a stratification variable in the conditional logistic regression model. It should be noted that in conditional logistic regression the effects of baseline AER levels have been removed conditioned out of the estimation process in a manner similar to a stratified Cox regression Prentice and Pyke 1979 . The primary parameter of interest in the conditional logistic regression models was the change in the log odds with 95 Wald CI for the development of albuminuria diabetic nephropathy for the main effect of baseline natural log transformed modified LDL IC levels after controlling for DCCT randomized treatment retinopathy cohort at DCCT baseline DCCT primary versus secondary cohort duration of diabetes months at DCCT baseline as well as LDL and HbA1c also at DCCT baseline. The modified LDL IC levels were natural log transformed to normalize the distribution of the IC levels. Without the transformation the distributions of IC levels were highly skewed to the right.

To further measure the effect of the modified LDL IC measurements on the development of albuminuria diabetic nephropathy the strength of the association of the covariates was quantified using the change in the 2 log likelihood indices as well as the entopy R squared R Lachin 2000 . Statistical significance for the change was computed using likelihood ratio tests for nested regression models.

All statistical analyses were performed using the SAS System version 9.2. The type I error rate was controlled at 0.05 for all analysis and p values have not been adjusted for multiple comparisons.

Demographic and clinical differences between nephropathy groups at baseline measurement are summarized in Table 4. There were statistically significant differences in several clinical factors such as duration of diabetes at study entry albumin excretion rate HbA1C and mild retinopathy at DCCT Baseline DCCT primary vs. secondary cohort indicator and HDL at DCCT Baseline. Many of these findings were expected since both primary and secondary prevention retinopathy cohorts were enrolled and the secondary prevention cohort had a longer duration of DM as well as mild disease at time of randomization. Duration was restricted to 1 5 years duration in the primary and 1 15 in the secondary cohorts. There was also a statistically significant difference in the length of follow up between those deemed nephropathy prone as compared to those deemed nephropathy resistant. The difference however is roughly one half of a year and is not considered clinically relevant. It is also noted that the mean time to be considered nephropathy prone was found to be 8.45 years SD 4.05 IQR 5.0 11.3 and 64 78.1 of the event times were at less than 12 years of follow up.

There were also mild differences in total cholesterol LDL cholesterol and gender. Both Oxidized LDL IC levels and AGE LDL IC at DCCT baseline were higher in the nephropathy prone group than the resistant group 5.1 0.8 vs. 4.6 0.9 p

In unadjusted conditional logistic analysis an increase of 0.9 1 SD in the log transformed oxLDL IC increased the odds of subsequent development of nephropathy by a factor of 2 OR 2.0 1.5 2.7 p

A trend towards a significant interaction of the DCCT treatment group and oxLDL IC levels was observed. The p value of the interaction term was variable depending on which main effects were included in the regression model but the point estimates of the interaction terms remained relatively stable across models. In a conditional logistic regression model that consisted of the DCCT treatment group oxLDL levels in IC and their interaction p 0.09 . The magnitude of the parameter estimate decreased after the addition of the baseline factors p 0.17 which is an indication of weak confounding. However the results do still convey an important moderation effect of treatment . A 1 SD increase in oxLDL IC yielded a significant increase for the odds of nephropathy in the group on conventional diabetes therapy OR 2.3 1.5 3.5 p

In order to determine the strength of association of the covariates in the model with the nephropathy outcome likelihood ratio tests were performed for the full models against the model with only the three adjustment variables included as well as a model with only DCCT Treatment group assignment as a predictor Table 6 . The model with only DCCT treatment group assignment predicting nephropathy outcomes attained a 2 log likelihood of 307.1 1 parameter estimated while that of the model with the addition of primary retinopathy at baseline baseline diabetes duration baseline LDL and HbA1C had a significantly lower value of 240.4 5 parameters estimated p

The effect of lipids and lipoproteins in the development of nephropathy has recently been the object of close attention and the contribution of dyslipidemia to the development of nephropathy is well established Lopes Virella et al. 2008 Seliger 2006 . The role of immune complexes in the pathogenesis of nephropathy is also well established although most of the examples have been in glomerulopathies other than diabetic nephropathy Ambrus and Sridhar 1997 Mann and Neilson 1985 . The possible involvement of IC in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy had been suggested by us Virella et al. 1981 and others Nicoloff et al. 2004 in studies based on non specific assays for IC later supported by data generated using assays in which the LDL content of isolated IC was measured Atchley et al. 2002 Yishak et al. 2006 . The data presented in this study clearly shows that higher baseline AGE and oxLDL levels in isolated IC were associated with increased odds to develop diabetic nephropathy in the DCCT EDIC cohort.

Several points need to be considered in this study. Approximately equal numbers of patients from a primary and a secondary cohort were enrolled in the DCCT study. The primary cohort had no complications and the secondary cohort had mild to moderate retinopathy and AER values between 41 and 200 mg 24 hr. Also there was a difference in diabetes duration between the two groups 1 5 years in the primary group and 1 15 years in the secondary group . Since the inventors could not examine the whole cohort and the number of patients who developed abnormal albuminuria up to EDIC year 9 was relatively small they studied all the patients with albuminuria cases defined as having an AER 60 mg 24 hr at least in two successive determinations and studied 3 4 patients with normal AER controls per case. The selection was random but due to the pre selection criteria the subgroup of cases included more patients enrolled as part of the secondary prevention in the DCCT study. Patients with albuminuria approximately 20 years later included as expected a larger number of patients enrolled as part of the secondary prevention group. Therefore the frequency of retinopathy AER values and duration of diabetes were higher at baseline in the group considered prone to nephropathy compared to the group resistant to nephropathy. This analysis was appropriately adjusted for all these factors.

Interestingly a lower level of HDL cholesterol and a higher level of triglycerides and total cholesterol as well as elevated HbA1c were observed in the group prone to nephropathy although at entrance into the study the levels of these parameters in the primary and secondary prevention subgroups were similar. As part of the DCCT design lipid levels were normal to qualify for enrollment. However even at baseline a slight but significant increase of triglycerides and total cholesterol as well as a lower HDL cholesterol level was observed in the patients prone to nephropathy. No significant difference was however observed in LDL C levels. Interestingly both cholesterol and triglycerides as well as HDL cholesterol levels are well within normal limits in both groups. LDL Cholesterol was by present guidelines slightly elevated in both groups although not significantly different. This is not the case for HbA1c were the levels are quite abnormal in the group prone to nephropathy and the difference in absolute levels between the two groups is considerably higher than that observed in lipid levels. When the interaction of DCCT treatment group and oxLDL concentration in isolated IC was considered a significant increase in the odds to develop nephropathy was clearly observed in the group of patients treated conventionally but not in the group treated intensively. The interaction between DCCT treatment and AGE LDL levels in IC was less marked. Thus higher baseline oxLDL levels in IC were associated with increased odds to develop abnormal albuminuria and eventually progression to nephropathy in the conventionally treated patients and the increase in odds to develop abnormal albuminuria was quite similar to that observed with high levels of HbA1c. In contrast higher baseline LDL C levels were not associated with increased odds to develop abnormal albuminuria. In other words the level of oxLDL in IC measured in conventionally treated patients is as good predictor for the development of nephropathy as HbA1c. Interestingly the predictive value of oxLDL in IC appears to be moderated by intensive therapy during DCCT suggesting that optimization of glycemia impacts the formation of oxLDL IC likely due to a reduction in oxidative stress and therefore reduction of LDL modification.

The fact that patients with IDDM have circulating IC containing AGE modified and oxidized LDL strongly suggests a new mechanism by which AGE modification and oxidation of LDL can be significantly involved in the early stages of diabetic nephropathy. These circulating oxLDL and AGE LDL IgG antibodies can easily diffuse to the extravascular space thus favoring the formation of pro inflammatory IC in the vessel walls both in the kidneys and in other areas of the systemic circulation.

The deposition of AGE modified proteins starts very early in the evolution of diabetes McCance et al. 1993 and perhaps as a consequence of local oxidative stress oxidized proteins are also generated and co localize with AGE modified proteins in the expanded mesangium and glomerular capillary walls of patients with diabetic nephropathy Horie et al. 1997 . Among all the modified proteins that can emerge as a consequence of glycooxidation and lipid peroxidation LDL seems to be particularly important. Studies in animal models and humans suggested that macrophages and hypercholesterolemia played a key role in the evolution of the glomerulosclerosis Diamond 1991 . The obvious implication would be that hyperlipidemia common in patients with diabetes was linked to the development of diabetic nephropathy. It seems likely that hyperlipidemia will facilitate the infiltration of LDL into the extravascular space including the glomerular mesangium. Activated mesangial cells have been shown to oxidize LDL in vitro Wheeler et al. 1994 . This observation has significant implications because in situ oxidation of LDL would create the necessary conditions for the formation of oxLDL IC in the glomeruli. The activation of mesangial cells by IC containing modified LDL is particularly significant in the context of diabetic nephropathy in IDDM because mesangial expansion seems to be the earliest morphological evidence of the transition to microalbuminuria Fioretto et al. 1995 . As the lesions progressed inflammatory cells would be recruited and activated leading to the release of pro inflammatory cytokines and growth factors followed by a self perpetuating cycle of mesangial cell activation and proliferation of mesangial cells and expansion of the extracellular matrix resulting in glomerulosclerosis Diamond 1991 French et al. 1967 Gin et al. 2000 .

Further studies are needed to clearly detail the pathogenic mechanisms by which oxLDL and AGE LDL IC lead to diabetic nephropathy but the present study provides strong clinical evidence that a link may likely exist between the formation and or deposition in the glomeruli of IC containing AGE or ox LDL and the initiation and perpetuation of renal disease in patients with type 1 diabetes.

This study was performed on a subgroup of 476 subjects from the DCCT EDIC cohort who had oxLDL IC levels measured on samples obtained at entry into the DCCT as well as coronary artery calcification CAC scores performed during the EDIC phase of the study 11 20 years after enrollment in the DCCT as a marker for coronary artery disease CAD Cleary et al. 2006 . The original DCCT cohort included 1 441 patients who were 13 39 years of age and had type 1 diabetes for 1 15 years at study entry The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Res. Group 1993 . The DCCT cohort was randomized to intensive or conventional insulin therapy and followed for an average of 6.5 years. In 1993 the interventional phase of the study was stopped and in 1994 the observational phase of the DCCT EDIC study EDIC phase was initiated Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 aimed at assessing the development of macrovascular disease in type 1 diabetes. During the EDIC phase all of the patients were under the care of their personal health care provider and were encouraged to practice intensive insulin therapy. At DCCT Baseline 1983 1989 none of the patients had hypertension defined as 140 and or 90 mmHg or dyslipidemia defined as total cholesterol 200 and or LDL 160 mg dl .

Of the 1 441 DCCT participants 90 95 entered the EDIC study and 905 of these individuals had blood collected longitudinally as part of a sub study on biomarkers of macrovascular disease. From these 905 subjects 518 patients were selected for measurement of oxLDL IC. In the selection of these 518 patients cases of albuminuria elevated carotid artery intima media thickness and retinopathy were oversampled i.e. all available cases were sampled resulting in 157 of the 518 patients having one of these three endpoints and 361 of the 518 patients having none of these endpoints. Of the 518 with oxLDL IC measured 476 also had CAC measured during EDIC Hodis et al. 1998 .

Serum samples were obtained after an overnight fast at entry into the DCCT study between 1983 89 . The DCCT and EDIC studies were approved by the Institutional Review Board of all participating DCCT EDIC centers and all participants provided written informed consent.

CAC was determined by computed tomography CT performed 7 9 years after the end of the DCCT in 1 205 86 of the surviving 1 404 participants. CT was performed using a C 150 cardiac gated electron beam CT scanner n 9 Imatron San Francisco Calif. a Lightspeed n 7 General Electric Medical Systems Waukesha Wis. or a Volume Zoom Siemens Erlanger Germany multidetector CT system a Lightspeed Marconi MX 8000 GE or a Somatom 4 Siemens n 3 . All participants were scanned twice over calibration phantoms of known physical calcium concentration. Scans were read centrally at the Harbor UCLA University of California Los Angeles Research and Education Institute Torrance Calif. to identify and quantify CAC. The average score from the two scans was used in the analysis. Readers were masked to subject identity and prior treatment assignment. Details concerning standardization and reliability of the CAC measurement have been previously published Cleary et al. 2006 .

The inventors measured oxLDL by first precipitating circulating immune complexes from serum and then fractionating these IC by protein G affinity chromatography separating the predominant IgG antibody from modified LDL as previously described Atchley et al. 2002 Virella et al. 2004 . The concentration of OxLDL in the IC was then assayed with a capture assay developed in the inventors laboratory using a specific oxLDL antibody Virella et al. 2005 . The development of standards for calibration of the oxLDL assay as well as sensitivity reproducibility and recovery data for the capture assay have been reported elsewhere Virella et al. 2005 . The effect of long term freezing at 70 C. was carefully assessed and found to have no effect in the measurements performed. The levels of oxLDL in human circulating IC were expressed in function of the amount of apolipoprotein B contained in the IC and the final values were given as the concentration per mL of serum

At the baseline DCCT examination each participant completed a physical examination medical history electrocardiogram and laboratory testing including serum creatinine and hemoglobin Atchley et al. 2002 The Diabetes care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Lipid profiles and 4 hour urine collections for measurement of AER and creatinine clearance were also obtained. Covariates for the current analyses were obtained from DCCT baseline history physical examination and laboratory data fasting lipids renal function and hemoglobin A1c . The methodology used to perform the routine measurements used as conventional risk factors in this study were guided by the DCCT EDIC study protocols and have been described elsewhere as mentioned above Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications EDIC 1999 The Diabetes care and Complications Trial DCCT Research Group 1987 . Retinopathy was assessed by obtaining stereo fundus photographs in all participants Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Res. Group 1991 .

In the analyses performed oxidized LDL IC at DCCT baseline was used to determine a person s exposure status and CAC levels 11 20 years later were the outcomes of interest. Values of oxLDL IC were log transformed due to their skewed non normal distribution. The study population was divided into those with minimal to moderate CAC scores Low Group 

Due to the skewed nature of the CAC scores unadjusted and multivariable log binomial Relative Risk regression models with robust error variance estimates Zou 2004 were used to estimate the risk ratios associated with the prevalence of high CAC scores with an increase of one standard deviation of the natural logarithm of oxLDL IC 1 SD 0.9137 mg L . Risk Models were analyzed both unadjusted and adjusted for DCCT randomized treatment group baseline age gender duration of type 1 diabetes HbA1C CT scanning location DCCT baseline retinopathy cohort primary vs. secondary and AER mg 24 hr . Further multivariable models looked at the addition of baseline systolic blood pressure baseline smoking status and baseline LDL Cholesterol.

Multivariable Tobit regression models were used to examine the association of the observed continuous CAC scores with oxLDL IC. Calcification scores of zero were assumed immeasurable but present and censored. All non zero CAC scores were natural log transformed and decreased by subtracting the natural logarithm of the lowest detectable CAC score prior to model fitting. Tobit models were implemented using maximum likelihood methods to adjust for this apparent left censoring of the CAC distribution Tobin 1958 . This method provided a single association measure between oxLDL IC measures and CAC scores Reilly et al. 2004 . Tobit regression models used in the analysis were fit using the QLIM Procedure in SAS 9.2 and were adjusted for the same covariates as in the risk ratio models.

All statistical analyses were performed using the SAS System version 9.2 SAS Institute Cary N.C. USA . A type I error rate was controlled for significance at 0.05 for all analysis and p values have not been adjusted for multiple comparisons.

For descriptive purposes oxLDL IC was broken into tertiles and Table 7 shows the baseline demographics and clinical data of the patients in each tertile. Increases in oxLDL IC were associated with increases in the duration of type 1 diabetes length of DCCT follow up cholesterol s and baseline AER. Those with higher oxLDL IC were more likely to have been in the standard treatment group and to be male. The correlation of oxLDL IC with LDL cholesterol level while statistically significant was of moderate magnitude Rho 0.22 p

Demographic and clinical differences between CAC groups 0 100 and 100 are summarized in Table 8. At DCCT baseline the mean age of the study population n 476 was 27.2 7.0 years the mean duration of diabetes was 5.8 4.1 years 52.3 n 249 were males 97.3 n 463 were Caucasian and 45.6 n 217 were assigned to the DCCT intensive treatment group. In the high CAC group duration of type 1 diabetes was higher 5.7 4.1 vs. 6.9 4.5 p

The overall prevalence of high CAC scores was 14.5 69 476 . The prevalence of having high CAC across oxLDL IC tertiles is shown in . Prevalence of high CAC scores increases as the levels of oxLDL IC increase. Trend P value 

Table 9 presents the unadjusted and multivariable risk ratios for significant CAC associated with a one standard deviation increase in the natural logarithm of oxLDL IC. In the unadjusted analysis those with a one SD change in oxLDL IC at DCCT baseline had a 51 percent increase in the risk of having a high CAC score RR 1.51 95 CI 1.20 1.88 p

The results of the Tobit regression models were stronger than those from the risk models. In the unadjusted analysis a one standard deviation increase in oxLDL IC level resulted in a nearly 3 fold increase in CAC scores 2.98 95 CI 1.59 5.59 X 11.68 p

Increased levels of oxLDL IC at DCCT baseline are associated with an increased risk of having clinically significant coronary artery calcification 11 to 20 years later in patients with type 1 diabetes. When adjustments for different variables were introduced particularly LDL level the effect of an increase in oxLDL IC level was attenuated the relative risk decreasing from 1.51 to 1.23 but remained statistically significant. As expected the degree of dyslipidemia and in particular the levels of LDL cholesterol did correlate with the levels of oxLDL IC because higher levels of LDL will inevitably result in higher levels of oxLDL the necessary antigen for the formation of oxLDL IC. In a previous study the inventors demonstrated that the total LDL particle number as well as the concentrations of both small LDL and large LDL particles assessed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy were responsible for LDL IC formation in the DCCT EDIC cohort Klein et al. 2010 .

In the full model LDL itself remained significant suggesting not surprisingly that it also has an effect on coronary calcification independent of oxLDL IC. A limitation of the study is the lack of a random sampling. To increase the statistical power available participants were oversampled i.e. all available cases were sampled for one of three endpoints none of which are the endpoint for the current report albuminuria elevated carotid artery intima media thickness and retinopathy. To overcome this selection bias throughout all analyses the inventors have controlled for baseline markers of diabetes severity i.e. DCCT retinopathy status diabetes duration and hemoglobin A1C and albuminuria i.e. the case control selection criteria . Additionally the inventors determined that neither markers of diabetes severity albuminuria nor DCCT treatment group were acting as effect modifiers of associations of interest thus indicating that the predictive ability of IC was similar across different levels of these variables.

Previous publications from the inventors group and others had pointed to the potential pathogenic role of oxLDL IC. Orchard et al. reported that levels of LDL containing IC measured at baseline were directly related to subsequent CAD Orchard et al. 1999 . In a nested case control study including 49 incident cases of myocardial infarction angina or death attributed to CAD and 49 control subjects matched for age gender and duration of diabetes using multivariate analysis modified LDL IC assessed by measuring the cholesterol content in isolated immune complexes were shown to be independent predictors of CAD. In addition a complementary study from the inventors group using the same patient cohort showed that the IC from the patients that developed CAD contained higher LDL concentrations and higher concentrations of IgG than those measured in IC isolated from control cases Lopes Virella et al. 1999 . A later study carried out in 1050 patients from the DCCT EDIC cohort showed that LDL IC measured by the concentration of cholesterol and ApoB in precipitated IC were present in higher levels in patients that showed progression of the intima media thickening IMT over a follow up period of 4 to 6 years Lopes Virella et al. 2007 .

Using capture assays for modified LDL the inventors have also revisited the correlation between modified LDL IC levels and IMT in a DCCT EDIC cohort of 479 patients who had levels of oxLDL and AGE LDL IC at DCCT Baseline and for whom IMT was measured 8 4 years later. After adjusting for treatment group retinopathy status age sex diabetes duration hemoglobin A1c and ultrasonography equipment oxLDL IC and AGE LDL IC each significantly predicted internal and common carotid IMT at EDIC year 1 and 6 unpublished results .

In conclusion the humoral immune response to modified LDL in humans appears to be a prime factor in the progression of atherosclerosis in humans. The demonstration that increased levels of oxLDL IC predict the development of coronary artery calcification is a very significant finding supporting previous evidence and pointing to a pathogenic role of modified LDL immune complexes.

All of the compositions and or methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following references to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

