---

title: Combining user profile information maintained by various social networking systems
abstract: A social networking system generates an augmented user profile for a user. The augmented user profile includes information from user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems that correspond to the user of the social networking system. For example, user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems having a threshold similarity to a user profile maintained by the social networking system are identified, and characteristics of the user in the identified user profiles are included in the augmented user profile along with characteristics from the user profile maintained by the social networking system. Characteristics of the user from the augmented user profile are used to identify content, such as advertisements, for presentation to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380128&OS=09380128&RS=09380128
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09380128
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This disclosure relates generally to social networking systems and more specifically to combining information in user profiles maintained by various social networking systems.

A social networking system allows its users to connect to and communicate with other social networking system users. Users may create profiles on a social networking system that are tied to their identities and include information about the users such as interests and demographic information and share this information with other social networking system users by posting content on the social networking system or otherwise allowing other users to access this information. The users may be individuals or entities such as corporations or charities. Because of the increasing popularity of social networking systems and the increasing amount of user specific information maintained by social networking systems a social networking system provides an ideal forum for advertisers to increase awareness about products or services by presenting advertisements to social networking system users. The increasing amount of user specific information maintained by social networking systems also allows advertisers to gather information about users characteristics to more effectively target advertisements to social networking system users subject to privacy settings of social networking system users.

Users of a social networking system often post content to the social networking system for presentation to other social networking system users allowing the other users to interact with the posted content. Based on interactions by a user with content posted other users the social networking system may determine characteristics of the user such as the user s interest in other users or types of content. The social networking system may use characteristics of a user to select content such as advertisements for the user to increase the likelihood of interacting with content that the social networking system presents to the user.

Conventionally a social networking system presents content to a user based on information associated with the user by social networking system. For example the social networking system selects content for presentation to a user based on demographic information in a user profile associated with the user actions performed by the user and captured by the social networking system connections between the user and other users of the social networking system or other suitable information. However users of a social networking system are often users of additional social networking systems and provide different or additional demographic information or perform different actions when interacting with an additional social networking system. Hence information associated with a user by a single social networking system may incompletely reflect characteristics of the user.

A social networking system generates an augmented user profile for a user that includes information associated with the user by additional social networking systems. For example the augmented user profile includes information from the user profile for the user maintained by the social networking system and information from additional user profiles associated with the user by additional social networking systems. Information in the augmented user profile is used by the social networking system to select content for presentation to the user allowing the social networking system to account for information about the user maintained by additional social networking systems to provide content better tailored to the user.

To generate the augmented user profile the social networking system retrieves a user profile associated with the user and retrieves additional user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems. Characteristics of the user from the user profile are compared to characteristics of the user from each of the additional user profiles to generate similarities between the user profile and the additional user profiles. For example a score describing the similarity between a user profile and an additional user profile is generated based on the characteristics in the user profile that match characteristics in the additional user profile. The similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile may be affected by the types of characteristics in a user profile matching those in an additional user profile as well as whether characteristics in the user profile and in the additional user profile fully or partially match. Additional user profiles with at least a threshold similarity to the user profile are selected and characteristics in the selected additional user profile are combined with characteristics in the user profile to generate the augmented user profile. Additionally information associated with the additional user profiles such as content or actions associated with an additional user profile by an additional social networking system may be included in the augmented user profile.

Using information in the augmented user profile the social networking system selects content for presentation to the user. For example characteristics of the user in the additional user profile are compared to targeting criteria associated with advertisements to identify advertisements eligible for presentation to the user. As another example objects maintained by the social networking system with which the user has a threshold likelihood of interacting are identified based on characteristics of the user from the augmented user profile and identified to the user.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a Smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with one or more social networking systems A B C. For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and a social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with a social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with one or more social networking systems A B C which are further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to a social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

One or more social networking systems A B C are coupled to the network and communicate with the client device . While shows three social networking systems A B C in other embodiments any number of social networking systems may be included in the system environment . As further described below in conjunction with a social networking system maintains a user profile for each of its users and allows users to establish connections with other users. Users of a social networking system provide content to the social networking system which presents the provided content to other users based on connections between users and or information in user profiles. Using interactions between a user and content presented to the user connections between the user and other users as well as information in a user profile associated with the user a social networking system selects content for presentation to the user. A user of a social networking system A may also have user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems B C with user profiles maintained by different social networking systems A B C including different characteristics.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

A user profile may include one or more direct characteristics that uniquely identify a user associated with the user profile. Examples of direct characteristics include an e mail address or a phone number. Additionally a connection between a user profile and a user profile maintained by an additional social networking system may be stored in the user profile and is a direct characteristic. For example a social networking system A may leverage connections between users maintained by an additional social networking system B by sharing login credentials between the social networking system A and the additional social networking system B. This sharing of login credentials establishes a connection between a user profile associated with the user maintained by the social networking system A and a user profile associated with the user by the additional social networking system B. A connection between a user profile maintained by a social networking system A and an additional user profile maintained by an additional social networking system B indicates that the user profile and the additional user profile are associated with the same user.

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Social networking system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence social networking system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object or another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest for an object interest or other user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

One or more advertisement requests ad requests are included in the ad request store . An advertisement request includes advertisement content and a bid amount. The advertisement content is text image audio video or any other suitable data presented to a user. In various embodiments the advertisement content also includes a landing page specifying a network address to which a user is directed when the advertisement is accessed. The bid amount is associated with an advertisement by an advertiser and is used to determine an expected value such as monetary compensation provided by an advertiser to the social networking system if the advertisement is presented to a user if the advertisement receives a user interaction or based on any other suitable condition. For example the bid amount specifies a monetary amount that the social networking system receives from the advertiser if the advertisement is displayed and the expected value is determined by multiplying the bid amount by a probability of the advertisement being accessed.

Additionally an advertisement request may include one or more targeting criteria specified by the advertiser. Targeting criteria included in an advertisement request specify one or more characteristics of users eligible to be presented with advertisement content in the advertisement request. For example targeting criteria are used to identify users having user profile information edges or actions satisfying at least one of the targeting criteria. Hence targeting criteria allow an advertiser to identify users having specific characteristics simplifying subsequent distribution of content to different users.

In one embodiment targeting criteria may specify actions or types of connections between a user and another user or object of the social networking system . Targeting criteria may also specify interactions between a user and objects performed external to the social networking system such as on a third party system . For example targeting criteria identifies users that have taken a particular action such as sending a message to another user using an application joining a group leaving a group joining an event generating an event description purchasing or reviewing a product or service using an online marketplace requesting information from a third party system or any other suitable action. Including actions in targeting criteria allows advertisers to further refine users eligible to be presented with content from an advertisement request. As another example targeting criteria identifies users having a connection to another user or object or having a particular type of connection to another user or object.

The profile association module retrieves a user profile from the user profile store and accesses one or more additional social networking systems B C to identify additional user profiles maintained by the additional social networking systems B C associated with the user profile from the user profile store . For example the profile association module retrieves a user profile associated with a user from the user profile store and accesses additional user profiles maintained by additional social networking systems B C that are associated with users of at least one of the additional social networking systems B C. The profile association module compares characteristics in the user profile from the user profile store to characteristics in additional user profiles maintained by the additional social networking systems B C. Based on characteristics in the user profile from the user profile store matching at least a portion of characteristics in an additional user profile maintained by an additional social networking system B C the profile association module determines a similarity between the user profile from the user profile store and each of the additional user profiles as further described below in conjunction with .

If the user profile from the user profile store has at least a threshold similarity with an additional user profile maintained by an additional social networking system B C an augmented user profile including characteristics from the additional user profile from the additional social networking system B C and characteristics from the user profile from the user profile store is generated and stored in the user profile store . Hence an augmented user profile includes characteristics associated with a user by a social networking system A as well as characteristics associated with the user by one or more additional social networking systems B C. An augmented user profile may be associated with a corresponding user profile maintained by the social networking system . As further described below in conjunction with content may be selected for presentation to a user based on characteristics associated with the user by an augmented user profile for the user. This allows content selection to account for characteristics associated with the user by additional social networking systems to increase the likelihood of the user having an interest in content selected by a social networking system .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

The social networking system A accesses one or more additional social networking systems B C and retrieves additional user profiles maintained by the additional social networking systems B C that describe characteristics of users of at least one of the additional social networking systems B C. In one embodiment characteristics included in the user profile are compared to characteristics included in each of the additional user profiles to determine similarities between the user profile and each of the additional user profiles. For example a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile provides a measure of the number or percentage of characteristics included in the additional user profile that match at least a portion of a characteristic included in the user profile. In one embodiment the characteristics from the user profile and from the additional user profile compared to each other to determine a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile are subject to one or more privacy settings maintained by the corresponding social networking system limiting the compared characteristics to those indicated by a privacy setting as capable of being accessed.

The determined similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile may be based at least in part on a degree with which characteristics in the user profile match characteristics in the additional user profile. For example a value associated with a characteristic in the user profile matching characteristics in the additional user profile is modified by a weight that is based on whether the characteristic in the user profile partially or fully matches the characteristic in the additional user profile. Hence a characteristic in the user profile partially matching a characteristic in the additional user profile may contribute less to the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile than a characteristic in the user profile fully matching a characteristic in the additional user profile.

One or more additional user profiles having at least a threshold similarity to the user profile are selected . For example when determining a similarity between the user profile and an additional user profile direct characteristics in the user profile are identified and compared to direct characteristics in the additional user profile. As described above in conjunction with a direct characteristic includes information uniquely identifying a user. Examples of direct characteristics include an e mail address a phone number and a connection between the user profile and the additional user profile. If the user profile and the additional user profile have a matching direct characteristic the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile is specified to be a value that equals or exceeds the threshold similarity. As an example if an open authentication standard is used by a social networking system A including the user profile and an additional social networking system B including the additional user profile a user s login credentials are shared by the social networking system A and the additional social networking system B so the user profile and the additional user profile are linked to each other. This linking indicates the user profile and the additional user profile are associated with the same user so the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile is specified to be at least the threshold value.

However if at least one direct characteristic included in the user profile does not match a direct characteristic included in the additional user profile additional types of characteristics in the user profile and in the additional user profile are compared to determine a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. In one embodiment primary characteristics in the additional user profile matching at least a portion of a primary characteristic in the user profile are identified. While a primary characteristic does not uniquely identify a user it provides information closely associated with a user. Examples of primary characteristics include a proper name a username and a profile photograph. Additionally secondary characteristics in the additional user profile matching at least a portion of a primary characteristic in the user profile are identified. Secondary characteristics provide descriptive information about a user but are less specific to individual users than primary characteristics. Examples of secondary characteristics include connections between the user profile and other user profiles and media content e.g. photographs video data etc. associated with the user profile.

Primary characteristics or secondary characteristics included in the user profile at least partially matching primary characteristics or secondary characteristics are identified and used to determine a similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. For example a value is associated with matching primary characteristics between the user profile and the additional user profile and an additional lower value is associated with matching secondary characteristics between the user profile and the additional user profile and the values combined to generate a score representing the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. Thus whether a matching characteristic is a primary or a secondary characteristic affects the matching characteristic s contribution to the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. In one embodiment the values are modified by a weight that is proportional to the amount of matching hence the value of partially matching primary or secondary characteristics is attenuated by a weight when determining the similarity between the user profile and the additional user profile. For example a weight of 1.0 is associated with fully matching primary characteristics a weight of 0.5 is associated with partially matching primary characteristic a weight of 0.6 is associated with matching secondary characteristics and a weight of 0.25 is associated with partially matching secondary characteristics.

An additional user profile having at least a threshold similarity to the user profile is selected and an augmented user profile including characteristics from the user profile and the selected user profile is generated by the social networking system A including the user profile. The augmented user profile is stored by the social networking system A and associated with the user profile. In some embodiments information associated with the selected additional user profile and maintained by the additional social networking system B is identified and associated with the augmented user profile. For example actions associated with the additional user profile and stored by the additional social networking system B are identified and associated with the augmented user profile. In one embodiment actions associated with the additional user profile are analyzed and information describing the actions associated with the additional user profile e.g. most frequent actions associated with the additional user profile actions associated with the additional user profile within a threshold time of a current time etc. is associated with the augmented user profile.

Additionally content associated with the additional user profile and stored by the additional social networking system may be identified and information describing the content included in the augmented user profile. For example posts comments or other content associated with the additional user profile and maintained by the additional social networking system B are analyzed and subject matter associated with the content is stored in the augmented user profile store generated by the social networking system A. For example text included in various content items associated with the additional user profile is analyzed to determine the subject of the content items or metadata e.g. tags location information associated with content items are analyzed to determine a subject or a location associated with the content. The subject matter and or location determined from the analysis may be included in the augmented user profile. Similarly images associated with the additional user profile may be analyzed to identify the subject associated with the image for inclusion in the augmented user profile. In some embodiments one or more interests are inferred from the analysis of content associated with the additional user profile with the interests stored in the augmented user profile to provide additional information about the user.

In some embodiments if conflicting characteristics are included in the user profile and the selected additional user profile both characteristics from the user profile and from the selected additional user profile are included in the augmented user profile. Alternatively if a characteristic conflicts between the user profile and the selected additional user profile the characteristic maintained by the social networking system most recently accessed by the user is included in the augmented user profile alternatively the characteristic maintained by the social networking system most frequently accessed by the user is included in the augmented user profile. In another embodiment information associated with the user profile and the additional user profile is compared to characteristics stored by the user profile and or the additional user profile and a characteristic included in a user profile consistent with information associated with the user profile is included in the augmented user profile. For example if the user profile indicates that the user resides in San Francisco Calif. and the additional user profile indicates that the user resides in Miami Fla. if information associated with the user profile and the additional user profile includes check in actions proximate to San Francisco Calif. the residence from the user profile is included in the augmented user profile.

The social networking system A selects one or more content items for presentation to the user based at least in part on characteristics from the augmented user profile associated with the user. For example targeting criteria associated with ad requests are compared to information in the augmented user profile to identify ad requests having one or more targeting criteria satisfied by the user. The identified ad requests may then be ranked based on their bid amounts with one or more advertisements selected based on the ranking of ad requests. Because the augmented user profile includes characteristics of the user from one or more additional social networking systems additional ad requests may be identified than those identified by comparing the ad requests to user characteristics included in the user profile. This increases the number of advertisements eligible for presentation to the user. Additionally characteristics in the augmented user profile may be used to rank content items or to recommend actions for presentation to a user. In one embodiment the social networking system determines the user s likelihood of interacting with an object maintained by the social networking system by determining the user s affinity for the object based on characteristics or other information in the augmented user profile. For example interests included in the augmented user profile based on information associated with the additional user profile are compared to objects maintained by the social networking system and used to identify objects with which the user has at least a threshold likelihood of interacting i.e. objects with which the user has a threshold affinity based on information in the augmented user profile . One or more of the identified objects are presented to the user. In one embodiment a recommendation to interact with an identified object is presented to the user along with the identified object.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Some embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Some embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the following claims.

