---

title: Enterprise smart grid and demand management platform and methods for application development and management
abstract: A computer-implemented platform server and method is provided for energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment. The platform server includes an application module configured to operate any of a plurality of Smart Grid Applications. A consumer-side module is configured for bi-directional communication with a plurality of consumer-side intelligent appliances. An Operations Technology (OT) module is configured for communication with an electrical grid Energy Management System (EMS). A translation module is coupled to, and configured to translate data received from, the application, consumer-side, and OT modules, so that the platform is configured to selectively receive, translate, and transmit data from and among any of said application, consumer-side, and OT modules, to facilitate automated energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954612&OS=08954612&RS=08954612
owner: BRIDGE Energy Group, Inc.
number: 08954612
owner_city: Marlborough
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
This application claims priority and is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 831 371 entitled Enterprise Smart Grid and Demand Management Platform and Methods for Application Development and Management filed on Jul. 7 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 223 544 entitled Enterprise Smart Grid and Demand Management Platform with Ready Applications and Development Kit filed on Jul. 7 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This invention relates to the Smart Grid and more particularly to a platform configured to manage and integrate various heretofore disparate operations associated with conventional power grid operations to provide intelligent various new capabilities.

There is currently a lack of systems and methods capable of facilitating the systematized management of Demand Response and Smart Grid Programs and Applications and to integrate them with their organizational Information Technology IT systems. There is also a lack of Enterprise Architecture that can be leveraged by Energy clients as reference architecture to achieve their Smart Grid objectives. Still further there lacks a platform which enables convenient development and deployment of SOA Service Oriented Architecture type applications for Smart Grid applications.

Up to now within an energy company integration of energy grid applications has generally been an afterthought and primarily driven by whatever technology a particular application vendor offered. Energy companies tended to implement their project focused integration objectives using one off approaches in which an application was integrated with another application through a point to point and often proprietary approach. This point to point and organic growth over the years has generally resulted in an Accidental Architecture that provides little interoperability little scalability and often an interdependence which requires an all or none approach to application upgrades. Moreover application data tends to be locked in silos and cannot be shared or integrated easily. Furthermore although a market for energy trading exists the so called energy value chain which refers to the various energy industry participants and stakeholders is not connected through any unified automated technology making it difficult for the fluctuation in energy prices to be leveraged for the benefit of the consumer and for more efficient delivery of power to consumers. Without an integrated market the consumer typically ends up paying a pre defined rate generally higher than the optimal rate thereby denying the consumer complete benefits of the energy market which can typically result in lower prices variable prices discounts and more value that equates to transparency to the energy market and greater grid reliability. With less competition in the energy market grid reliability also suffers. Additionally unlike the electrical grid that is highly integrated from generation to the consumer the information technology and systems of various energy industry participants who are responsible for the energy generation transmission distribution and market operation are generally not integrated or at least communicating in a manner that would enable the implementation of Smart Grid services such as automated self healing of the grid leveraging of price and market signals from the market increasing grid reliability consumer empowerment and others.

Thus a need exists for a system and method capable of addressing one or more of the foregoing drawbacks.

In one aspect of the present invention a computer implemented platform server is provided for energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment. The platform server includes a server having a processor memory and computer readable media. An application module communicably coupled to the server is configured to operate any of a plurality of Smart Grid Applications. A consumer side module is communicably coupled to the server and configured for bi directional communication with a plurality of consumer side intelligent appliances. An Operations Technology OT module is communicably coupled to the server and configured for communication with an electrical grid Energy Management System EMS . A translation module is coupled to and configured to translate data received from the application consumer side and OT modules so that the platform is configured to selectively receive translate and transmit data from and among any of said application consumer side and OT modules to facilitate automated energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment.

In another aspect of the invention a computer implemented method for energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment includes using the OT and Consumer Side modules of the above described platform to receive and capture energy data from OT and Consumer side devices substantially in real time. The platform is used to translate the captured data and to actuate the application module to process the captured data. The application module generates a control command based on the processed data which is translated into a protocol associated with the Consumer Side module and transmitted to the Consumer Side device. A feedback communication from the Consumer Side device is received at the platform which is translated and forwarded to the application module for further processing substantially in real time.

In yet another aspect of the invention an article of manufacture for energy management operations in a Smart Grid environment includes a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein for implementing the above described method.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized. It is also to be understood that structural procedural and system changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. In addition well known structures circuits and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

A method and apparatus for providing automated Smart Grid service development and operation management are described. Embodiments of the invention provide for a Integration of energy specific applications and other systems within an energy organization such as companies that generate power transmission companies that transmit power distribution companies that distribute power and other similar organizations such as those in the business of providing delivering and or distributing other utilities such as water or gas b Interoperability amongst these utility organizations across multiple domains such as the Generation domain Transmission domain Distribution domain Market domain Operations domain Service Provider domain and Customer domain and c End to end integration and interoperability amongst participants within the foregoing domains e.g. within the Power and Utility industry to provide a real time transactional environment to integrate the entire energy value chain. Such integration and interoperability amongst participants provides for inter domain and intra enterprise level integration of applications and islands of data to improve information flow throughout the enterprise and amongst participants in a secure manner. These embodiments provide for effectively leveraging existing functionalities from numerous distribution transmission asset management and other enterprise systems such as advanced metering infrastructures meter data management systems customer information systems billing systems outage management systems geographic information systems work management systems energy and distribution automation management systems SCADA mobile workforce systems supply chain management systems and other enterprise applications.

Particular embodiments provide real time integration to provide a a unified and consistent view of information and data throughout the organization to facilitate the development of new processes and capabilities such as load curtailment self healing fault location detection and restoration remote connect and disconnect advance billing time of usage and variable rate billing and other demand management programs b capability to optimally manage the supply and demand of power through real time integration of the energy value chain from the generation to consumer for e.g. higher grid reliability and c leverage real time integration of the aforementioned domains participants and their applications systems and data to harness market and price signals and integrate them with available real time data for delivering more value to consumers such as in terms of variable rates lower prices and greater reliability of electricity water and gas. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Where used in this disclosure the terms computer and end user device are meant to encompass a workstation personal computer personal digital assistant PDA wireless telephone or any other suitable computing device including a processor a computer readable medium upon which computer readable program code including instructions and or data may be disposed and a user interface. Terms such as server application engine and the like are intended to refer to a computer related component including hardware software and or software in execution. For example an engine may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor including an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. The terms real time and on demand refer to sensing and responding to external events nearly simultaneously e.g. within milliseconds or microseconds with their occurrence or without intentional delay given the processing limitations of the system and the time required to accurately respond to the inputs. Terms such as component module and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server or control related devices can be components. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers or control devices. The term transaction or transactional shall be taken to include any communications between two or more entities and shall be construed to include but not be limited to industrial or commercial transactions including data transfers for general informational closed loop control and sale and purchase transaction purposes and the like.

The system and method embodying the present invention can be programmed in any suitable language and technology such as but not limited to C Visual Basic Java VBScript Jscript BCMAscript DHTM1 XML and CGI. Alternative versions may be developed using other programming languages including Hypertext Markup Language HTML Active ServerPages ASP and Javascript. Any suitable database technology can be employed such as but not limited to Microsoft SQL Server or IBM AS 400.

Referring now to the Figures embodiments of the present invention will be more thoroughly described. Embodiments of the present invention include an Enterprise Smart Grid platform e.g. platform integration server that may be deployed by substantially any of various participants in the energy chain including quasi governmental entities such as ISOs Independent System Operators or RTOs Regional Transmission Operators and Utilities including power generation and power delivery organizations including substantially any entities within the aforementioned Generation Transmission Distribution Market Operations Service Provider and or Customer domains to achieve Smart Grid objectives such as load curtailment efficient operations management and real time energy market response etc. This platform is flexible and scalable to provide the foundation for launching Smart Grid applications that may be both currently available and developed in the future. As will be described in greater detail hereinbelow various alternate embodiments of the Smart Grid Platform of the present invention are configured to enable Utility clients to integrate AMI AMR Advanced Metering Infrastructure Automated Meter Reading Smart Meter data with other enterprise applications including industrial control systems such as EMS Energy Management Systems SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition CIS Customer Information System GIS Geographic Information System and others while optionally conforming to NERC CIP North American Reliability Corp. Critical Infrastructure Protection security standards and requirements. This integrated data may then be used in real time to effect operations such as managing consumer demand and providing load curtailment capability down to the Smart Meter level. Smart Meters may thus be used to curtail load based upon real time load and on each customer s actual energy use. These embodiments may be similarly used for remote connects disconnects to achieve on demand load reductions etc.

Once deployed the platform may also enable various other demand management programs to be launched by utilities and or other users. Some of these programs such as identified by NERC may include non dispatchable DR Demand Response programs such as Time of Use Critical Peak Pricing Real Time Pricing etc. and dispatchable DR programs such as Critical Peak Pricing with Control Energy Price Demand Bidding and Buyback. Utilities may also deliver customer dashboards e.g. in the form of web pages and the like that may be used to monitor current usage. Customers may be conveyed clear price signals that they may use to decide whether they want to continue to use electricity or curtail their usage during peak hours. A market driven approach may promote efficiencies in the energy usage improve demand management and increase grid reliability.

Turning now to in particular a block diagram is shown which illustrates an exemplary network based transaction facility which may form the basis of a Smart Grid Platform of the present invention. This Smart Grid Platform includes one or more of a number of types of front end servers such as a page server that delivers pages e.g. markup language reports and a picture server that together may dynamically deliver text and graphical information to be displayed within a Graphical User Interface e.g. Web pages and the like to users on client machines communicably coupled via a network to platform . As also shown platform may also include one or more CGI Common Gateway Interface servers that provide an intelligent interface to the back end of facility and a translation server which may maintain and facilitate access to a translation database to handle translations of between the various protocols associated with communications to the facility from the various users parties modules of platform as discussed in greater detail hereinbelow. A communication server provides inter alia automated handling e.g. receipt and generation of communications e.g. email and or other protocols associated with particular applications users to users of the facility . The back end servers may include an application engine server e.g. to run various applications containing business logic etc. and a validation server e.g. to enforce permissions for the various users each of which may maintain and facilitate access to a database or other information storage device shown respectively as and . Facility may also include an administrative application server configured to provide various administrative functions.

As mentioned above the network based Smart Grid Platform may be accessed by a client program such as a browser e.g. the Internet Explorer distributed by Microsoft that executes on a client machine and accesses the facility via a network such as for example the Internet. Other examples of networks that a client may utilize to access the Smart Grid Platform include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network e.g. a cellular network or the Plain Old Telephone Service POTS network. It should be recognized that client programs machines may be substantially any intelligent device or system ranging for example from handheld computers PDAs to industrial control systems e.g. SCADA and intelligent electric power meters etc. with or without their own user interfaces as will be discussed in greater detail hereinbelow.

Turning now to a particular exemplary embodiment of the Smart Grid Platform of the present invention is shown at . This platform includes a server having a processor memory and computer readable media such as a database or other storage device such as shown and described with respect to . This server s supports an application module which may include at least one Application Programming Interface API configured to enable integration with any of a plurality of Smart Grid Applications as will be described in greater detail hereinbelow. As shown application module may be communicably coupled e.g. via network to a client machine which may be used to upload and or monitor operation of the various applications being executed on platform . Platform also includes a consumer side module configured for bi directional communication e.g. via network with a plurality of consumer side intelligent devices e.g. appliances . In a particular non limiting example appliances may include smart meters and or internet enabled home appliances etc. Still further platform includes an Operations Technology OT module which is configured for communication e.g. via network with an industrial process control system such as an electrical grid Energy Management System EMS . Particular examples of an EMS capable of being communicably coupled to platform via OT module include the aforementioned SCADA systems. Platform also includes a translation module configured to translate data being passed between the application consumer side and OT modules. Platform is thus configured to selectively receive translate and transmit data from and among the application consumer side and OT modules to facilitate automated Smart Grid operations such as may be dictated by the various applications running via application module .

In particular embodiments the translation module is configured to operate using the conventional CIM Common Information Model standard.

Optionally platform may also include an external stakeholder module shown in phantom which is communicably coupled to the other modules and via translation module . Stakeholder module is configured to provide bi directional communication between platform and one or more Smart Grid Stakeholders which may be located remotely from the platform. Examples of such external stakeholders may include both internal energy supply chain participants such as ISOs Power Generation entities Power Transmission entities and Utility Operators etc. and external energy supply participants such as those involved in financial aspects of the energy market. It should be recognized that these external stakeholders may be substantially any entity within the aforementioned Generation Transmission Distribution Market Operations Service Provider and or Customer domains.

Platform including the optional External Stakeholder module may thus provide end to end automated integration across substantially the entire energy value chain from power generation to transmission and ISO to consumer. In this regard it should be noted that individual platforms or portions thereof may be deployed at substantially any point in the energy value chain to facilitate this end to end integration. Such deployment will be discussed in greater detail hereinbelow with respect to .

It should be noted that in particular embodiments application module is configured to employ a Service Oriented Architecture SOA or other Loosely Coupled Architecture LCA such as known to those skilled in the art of platform architecture. By employing such architecture module enables individual Smart Grid Applications to be conveniently integrated without being dependent upon one another. Individual applications may thus be conveniently added to or removed from the platform without adversely affecting other applications. It should be recognized that this aspect tends to provide platform with robustness and with flexibility which facilitates migration from older applications to new applications on an application by application basis as new applications are developed in the future. Examples of Smart Grid Applications that may be usable with platform both currently and in the future may include Outage Management Systems OMS Interactive Voice Response IVR systems Customer Information Systems CIS Workforce Management Systems WMS Grid Self Healing Systems demand based connect disconnect and load curtailment AMI AMR Advanced Metering Infrastructure Automated Meter Reading GIS Geographic Information System and others as necessary while conforming to security and safety standards such as NERC CIP North American Reliability Corp. Critical Infrastructure Protection security standards and requirements e.g. in real time based upon real time load on the grid and each customer s actual energy use such as provided via consumer module .

In this regard application module may be optionally configured with a series of sub modules in order to optimize the foregoing functionality. For example application module may be provided with an integration module a development module and an application services module such as shown in phantom. The integration module may be configured to communicate with the other modules including the Consumer OT and External Stakeholder modules and . The development module may essentially take the form of a kit or suite of development tools APIs etc. to enable developers to conveniently create applications and or services to run on the platform . The application service module may be configured to manage and run the various applications whether or not those applications were developed using development module .

With reference to the aforementioned real time capture of customer energy use the consumer side module is configured to communicate with intelligent appliances such as smart meters and or internet enabled appliances. For example module may be configured to facilitate communication between a Metering Automation or Meter Data Management System e.g. running on module or on a remote server and a smart meter appliance located at customer premises. This communication may thus be used to facilitate automated meter reading and or meter control e.g. as part of the automation provided by the various embodiments disclosed herein.

It should also recognized that the connectivity and integration provided by platform enables an entity s EMS e.g. SCADA system to communicably interact via OT module with various IT systems e.g. via application module and or consumer side module . In this regard it should be recognized that any one or more of the applications discussed herein as potentially running via application module may alternatively or additionally run on a separate IT System communicably coupled to module via network as shown.

It should also be recognized that embodiments of platform are platform independent being operable on various operating systems including Microsoft Apple and Linux systems etc. Still further the platform integration server may be deployed on a local user s infrastructure and or remotely in a cloud computing or SaaS Software as a Service environment.

Turning now to an alternate embodiment of platform is substantially similar to platform but for the following distinctions. As shown OT Module is a SCADA Integration module configured to integrate a SCADA with a Load Curtailment Application running on Application Module . Depending upon the type of SCADA this module provides the capability to receive a SCADA message authenticate it e.g. using validation server and database decipher it based upon Bilateral tables or other predefined protocol e.g. using translation server and database and ensure that appropriate security constraints server database are met prior to acting on the message. The Load Curtailment Application interprets the command and applies appropriate filters so that only those commands associated with load curtailment are implemented. In particular embodiments the platform may be configured to operate and or translate between any one of the following protocols 

As also shown Consumer Side Module is configured as an MAS and MDMS Integration Module running in combination with an MAS MDMS which may be located remotely from platform as shown. The MDMS Meter Data Management System Integration module integrates the Load Curtailment Application with the MDMS. The Load Curtailment Application may receive data from the MDMS e.g. using translation server database and is capable of sending commands to the MDMS based upon instructions by the Load Curtailment Application and its associated business logic.

The MAS Metering Automation Server collects data from various smart meters . Depending upon the type of MDMS and MAS either one may only need to be integrated with the Load Curtailment Application. The level of integration may thus be dependent upon the particular type of MAS and MDMS.

As shown Application Module is configured with other applications such as CIS and GIS Integration Modules. The CIS module is configured to integrate the Load Curtailment Application with a user s Customer Information System CIS e.g. via network . This integration for example may permit utilities to connect their CIS systems to help automate customer billing. This integration with CIS may also enable the Load Curtailment Application to integrate the customer data with real time load usage consumption AMI AMR data from the MDMS MAS of module for real time demand management program capability.

The GIS Integration module integrates a user s GIS system with the Load Curtailment Application. This integration may integrate telemetry data with the curtailment programs providing easy visualization such as via the Graphical User Interface of client machine for demand management.

The Load Curtailment Application may also include other pre built modules for logging tracing security transactional integrity compliance and other pre defined components that may be leveraged in real time during operation of platform .

As also shown the Application Module may be configured to provide users with an LCA Control Manager which may run on the user s client machine . The CM allows administration of the LCA application. An optional Customer Service Application may also be deployed on Module to provide users via client machine with real time access to their energy usage. This may be provided over the network such as via password protected access from a thin client web browser or other client program running on client machine . Other applications may include Advance Billing and Connect Disconnect applications as discussed hereinabove.

It should be recognized that platforms may be implemented using conventional tools configured in accordance with the teachings disclosed herein. For example ODBC databases such as provided by Oracle and the SQL Server development tools like Java and C Service Oriented Architecture tools like IBM WebSphere Oracle Fusion TIBCO active Matrix and others from major vendors and tool providers may be used to build applications and provide various functionality described herein. The resulting embodiments as disclosed herein provide a unique configuration which is specific to the Energy industry. These embodiments may be leveraged by a great majority of the Energy clients thereby saving them design and development cost as a set of ready modules that can be deployed with configuration and minimal development. Moreover particular embodiments may include a platform which may be based upon open standards such as IEC 61968 IEC 61970 Common Information Model CIM XML Service Oriented Architecture SOA and Web Services. Particular embodiments may also conform to NERC CIP 002 2 to 009 2 security standards and compliance requirements. Still further embodiments of the platform are tool agnostic and will work with a user s current investment in SOA technology databases and infrastructure while providing Smart Transitioning flexibility for future growth and modifications as mentioned hereinabove.

Also the use of SOA as described herein with respect to application modules in combination with the various APIs associated therewith enable use of a wide range of third party applications in connection with platform . Indeed the configuration of these embodiments tends to enable non SOA developers to conveniently develop services and functionality usable with these platforms with minimal need for knowledge of the underlying SOA technology. This enables users to leverage existing resources in their organization and leverage them for new Smart Grid Development activity.

Embodiments of the invention also enable the use of a wide range of potential Smart Grid Applications which may be used in combination with smart appliances such as smart transformers and meters to achieve specific functional objectives. One such application in particular namely a Load Curtailment Application has been described herein. However those skilled in the art will recognize that this description was merely included as a non limiting example with the understanding that the breadth and depth of possible applications is essentially unlimited.

Referring now to an example showing how the Smart Grid Platform may be deployed within a Smart Grid Network Topology will be shown and described. For the purpose of explanation will be shown and described with respect to platforms deployed for the purposed of implementing a Load Curtailment Application. It should be understood however that this description may be similarly applied to substantially any embodiment of the Smart Grid Platform shown and described herein running substantially any application via its Application Module . The example of illustrates how a load curtailment message from an ISO may be leveraged by utilities to trigger load curtailment at the retail customer premises level. As shown a relatively large utility e.g. a utility large enough to justify having its own SCADA system may deploy its own Smart Grid Platform running a Load Curtailment Application. This Platform may be coupled substantially and shown and described with respect to hereinabove. In particular this platform may be connected to a local MDMS MAS which in turn is communicably coupled to retail Smart Meters . It is noted that the level of integration may depend upon the type of MDMS and the type of MAS used by the utility . Depending upon the MDMS MAS and the architecture of each Utility the MDMS or the MAS may be incorporated within connected directly or connected indirectly to the platform .

In operation an ISO may send a message e.g. a load curtailment message in the ICCP protocol from its SCADA to the SCADA at utility . At the utility the message is passed to platform where it is translated and passed to MDMM MAS and Smart Meters to effect the desired operations e.g. load curtailment .

As also shown a relatively small utility e.g. one which does not have its own full SCADA capability may employ an intermediary to host various functions such as a SCADA system and or a platform on behalf of the utility . This hosted approach which may also be referred to as a cloud computing approach such as in the event communication is Internet based enables the utility to achieve the benefits of the platform without installation and maintenance responsibilities. In this hosted model as shown the intermediary may also provide hosted MDMS MAS e.g. to read and operate Smart Meters at the customers of the utility . Alternative hosted approaches may also be used such as in the event one or more of the foregoing components are deployed by the utility itself. For example the remotely hosted platform may be configured to remotely control an MDMS MAS deployed by the utility .

In this hosted model the SCADA at the ISO may send a SCADA ICCP message to the SCADA hosted by the Intermediary . The message is then passed to the hosted platform for processing and control via the e.g. hosted MDMS MAS for control of customer Smart Meters .

In either of these larger or smaller utility approaches a SCADA message e.g. of load curtailment may be sent from the ISO to a platform . By virtue of its integration with the MDMS MAS the platform has knowledge of current energy demand and usage substantially in real time. Platform may also be aware of customer information and optionally the GIS data based upon its integration with CIS and GIS systems respectively. At any given time based upon the amount of energy load that needs to be curtailed a predetermined set of business rules logic may be implemented e.g. via Application Module to curtail load on the Smart Meters at the customer premises to achieve the desired reduction. Different levels of curtailment may be effected e.g. based on prior customer agreement and or incentives.

In addition it should be recognized that substantially any participant in the energy chain and or third parties may be provided with secure access to the platform e.g. via client machine of to view a dashboard that provides real time information regarding current energy usage and cost etc. This access and the various platforms configured to provide this access as discussed herein may thus provide a unified and consistent view of information and data throughout the organization to facilitate the development of new processes and capabilities such as load curtailment self healing fault location detection and restoration remote connect and disconnect advance billing time of usage and variable rate billing and other demand management programs. These embodiments may thus also provide the capability to optimally manage the supply and demand of power through real time integration of the energy value chain from the generation to consumer as discussed hereinabove for e.g. higher grid reliability. These embodiments may further provide for leveraging real time integration of the aforementioned domains participants and their applications systems and data to harness market and price signals and integrate them with available real time data for delivering more value to consumers such as in terms of variable rates lower prices and greater reliability of electricity water and gas etc.

In addition to the foregoing any of the embodiments disclosed herein may be provided with any of a variety of additional optional characteristics. For example any of the Smart Grid Platforms may be compliant with NERC CIP 002 2 though NERC CIP 009 2. Each SCADA message received may be authenticated. Bilateral tables are the like may be used to control access. In various embodiments multiple platforms may be deployed in zones e.g. each with maximum predetermined capacities of curtailment. Multiple platforms may also be used to provide geographic redundancy to ensure high availability etc.

Having described various embodiments of the platform of the present invention an exemplary method of operation thereof will now be described in connection with . As shown at the platform uses OT and Consumer Side modules to receive and capture energy data from OT and Consumer side Smart Grid devices substantially in real time. Optionally at the platform also uses an External Stakeholder module to receive and capture energy data from an External Stakeholder. At the platform translates the captured data and at actuates the application module in combination with processor to process the captured data. At application module and processor generates a control command based on the processed data and at actuates translation module to translate the control command into a protocol associated with the Consumer Side module . Optionally at the control command is configured to be a load curtailment command. The Consumer Side module then transmits the translated control command at . At the Consumer Side module receives a feedback communication from the Consumer Side device. The feedback communication is translated and forwarded to application module for further processing substantially in real time.

It should be recognized that the foregoing method is merely illustrative and that substantially any combination of data capture and command generation may be effected such as determined by any number of applications being executed by application module without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The computer system includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD plasma cathode ray tube CRT etc. . The computer system may also include an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard or touchscreen a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a drive e.g. disk flash memory etc. unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored a set of instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described above. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received via the network interface device . For the purposes of this specification the term computer readable medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the computer and that cause the computer to perform any one of the methodologies of the present invention. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic disks and carrier wave signals.

Thus an apparatus and method for a Smart Grid Platform have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Furthermore embodiments of the present invention include a computer program code based product which includes a computer readable storage medium having program code stored therein which can be used to instruct a computer to perform any of the functions methods and or modules associated with the present invention. The computer storage medium includes any of but not limited to the following CD ROM DVD magnetic tape optical disc hard drive floppy disk ferroelectric memory flash memory ferromagnetic memory optical storage charge coupled devices magnetic or optical cards smart cards EEPROM EPROM RAM ROM DRAM SRAM SDRAM and or any other appropriate static or dynamic memory or data storage devices.

It should be noted that the various modules and other components of the embodiments discussed hereinabove may be configured as hardware as computer readable code stored in any suitable computer usable medium such as ROM RAM flash memory phase change memory magnetic disks etc. and or as combinations thereof without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It should be further understood that any of the features described with respect to one of the embodiments described herein may be similarly applied to any of the other embodiments described herein without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In the preceding specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

The above systems are implemented in various computing environments. For example the present invention may be implemented on a conventional IBM PC or equivalent multi nodal system e.g. LAN or networking system e.g. Internet WWW wireless web . All programming and data related thereto are stored in computer memory static or dynamic or non volatile and may be retrieved by the user in any of conventional computer storage display e.g. CRT flat panel LCD plasma etc. and or hardcopy i.e. printed formats. The programming of the present invention may be implemented by one skilled in the art of computer systems and or software design.

