---

title: Boundary layer flow disruptors for delaying transition to turbulent flow
abstract: An apparatus delays the transition of a boundary layer flow from laminar to turbulent. Flow disruptors are positioned to be in contact with a boundary layer flow moving in a flow direction over a surface. Each flow disruptor generates fluctuations in the boundary layer flow such that the frequency of the fluctuations is a damping region frequency defined by an amplification rate curve associated with the boundary layer flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08939410&OS=08939410&RS=08939410
owner: 
number: 08939410
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130709
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 761 278 with a filing date of Feb. 6 2013 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the United States Government for United States Government purposes without payment of royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to delaying the onset of turbulent flow over an aerodynamic surface and more particularly to the use of flow disruptors on an aerodynamic surface to delay a boundary layer s flow transition from laminar flow to turbulent flow.

The design of aircraft is highly dependent on the dynamics of fluid flow around the aircraft. For nearly 100 years the field of aerodynamics has recognized that the flow in a thin boundary layer on the surface is critical to the efficient design of an aircraft. The flow in the boundary layer is initially smooth i.e. laminar but at some point transitions to a turbulent flow. Transition to turbulent flow in flight is due to many factors including surface condition and acoustical noise. Turbulent flow is undesirable since it brings about increased drag and heat transfer to the aircraft. Thus systems and methods to delay the laminar to turbulent flow transition are a major objective of aerodynamic research.

Decades of research in aerodynamics have shown little progress in delaying a boundary layer s transition to a turbulent condition. Early attempts to modify the boundary layer characteristics have included very thin modifications of the surface such as the addition of sandpaper tape or flapping layers. More recent and sophisticated attempts include the addition of small isolated protrusions or trips as they are known near the leading edge of an aircraft s wing span. Prior efforts have emphasized the separation of the trips or alignment of the trips along the stream wise direction of the flow in which case the trips are referred to as riblets . Unfortunately to date trip based modification of a boundary layer flow has only achieved modest amounts of success.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for modifying a boundary layer flow in order to delay a laminar to turbulent flow transition.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a flow disruptor based approach for delaying a laminar to turbulent flow transition.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more obvious hereinafter in the specification and drawings.

In accordance with the present invention an apparatus for delaying the transition of a boundary layer flow from laminar to turbulent is provided. A plurality of flow disruptors are positioned to be in contact with a boundary layer flow moving in a flow direction over a surface. Each flow disruptor generates fluctuations in the boundary layer flow. Specifically the flow disruptors are configured such that the frequency of the fluctuations is a damping region frequency defined by an amplification rate curve associated with the boundary layer flow.

Prior to describing the boundary layer flow disruptors of the present invention reference will be made to where a generalized form of an amplification rate curve for a boundary layer flow over a surface e.g. an aerodynamic surface is depicted. Briefly the curve is a plot of the relative amplification rate versus the dimensional frequency of fluctuations or disturbances in the boundary layer flow. These fluctuations or disturbances arise from many natural influences such as surface imperfections or acoustical influences. While a particular plot is derived from the theoretical stability considerations for a particular speed or range of speeds over a surface the generalized form is the same for all speeds.

Experimental measurements have verified this general form in the amplification region which is above a relative amplification rate of zero depicted by the horizontal dashed line. The dotted line curves are extrapolations into the damping region lying below the relative amplification rate of zero. Between the amplification region frequencies denoted fand f natural fluctuations are amplified causing the flow to become unstable and ultimately resulting in the transition of laminar flow to turbulent flow. Natural fluctuations occurring at damping region frequencies lower than frequency for above frequency fhave a negative amplification rate that damps the flow s natural fluctuations thereby causing the flow to be stable.

The method and apparatus of the present invention involve embedding passive or active flow disruptors in a boundary layer flow. Flow disruptors that are passive in nature are known in the art as trips. The dimensions i.e. height of passive trips in the present invention are a fraction of the boundary layer thickness thereby keeping them fully immersed and only partially extending into the boundary layer. Passive trips are physical structures mounted on an aerodynamic surface and are sized and shaped in accordance with the present invention to create strong dominant instabilities in the negative amplification rate or damping region of the amplification rate curve i.e. at frequencies less than for greater than f . Active flow disruptors are mounted flush with an aerodynamic surface and are operated to generate strong dominant instabilities in the negative amplification rate or damping region of the amplification rate curve i.e. at frequencies less than for greater than f .

Passive or active flow disruptors generate instabilities fluctuations in the boundary layer at a specific forced frequency such that the instabilities fluctuations act as boundary layer stabilizers. That is the flow disruptors either passive or active create strong dominant instabilities in the negative amplification rate or fluctuation damping region of the amplification rate curve. The specific forced frequencies will be referred to herein as damping region frequencies or f. By forcing the frequency of the fluctuations in the boundary layer into the damping region of the amplification rate curve flow disruptors in accordance with the present invention will delay laminar to turbulent flow transition for a selected speed or range of speeds. For example flow disruptors for an aircraft could be designed to provide a damping region frequency associated with the aircraft s cruise regime of flight thereby saving fuel during the aircraft s longest window of operation. The flow disruptors could also be used on supersonic hypersonic missiles to increase the operational range thereof.

As mentioned above flow disruptors in accordance with the present invention can be passive or active. However in all cases the flow disruptors are aligned along a direction that is perpendicular or approximately perpendicular to the flow direction of a boundary layer flow in which the flow disruptors are embedded and or in contact with.

Referring now to an aerodynamic surface is shown with a row of isolated spherical passive trips mounted thereon and aligned substantially perpendicular to the flow direction of a boundary layer flow moving over aerodynamic surface . The shape of each trip can be spherical as shown but the present invention is not so limited as a variety of other geometrically shaped trips e.g. inverted conical or triangular in rectangular in polygonal in etc. could be used without departing from the scope of the present invention. It is to be understood that the orientations of such geometrically shaped trips i.e. relative to aerodynamic surface and or flow direction could be different than those shown without departing from the scope of the present invention. Further although one row of trips is shown it is to be understood that additional rows are contemplated by the present invention.

The isolated trip design illustrated in generates damping region frequencies via vortex shedding from each individual trip. The damping region frequency frelationship for the isolated trip embodiment is given by where S is the Strouhal number typically S 0.185 

d is the effective diameter of the trip. Thus for a given flow velocity within the boundary layer that can be readily determined for an aircraft speed e.g. the aircraft s cruise regime the trip can be sized to generate flow induced fluctuations at the desired damping region frequency. Since there will be some frequency overlap in the damping region frequencies of amplification rate curves associated with a range of operating speeds passive trips can be designed for a damping frequency fthat is common for a range of operating speeds.

Another type of passive trip design is the corrugated surface trip illustrated in where aerodynamic surface incorporates a corrugated surface region defined by similarly sized shaped longitudinally extending and parallel ridges A each of which has a peak P that extends up partially into boundary layer . The cross sectional shape of ridges A in region is not a limitation of the present invention. In this embodiment the damping region frequency frelationship is given by where U is the local flow velocity across the top of the corrugated surface region and

The corrugation interval could be fixed or varied along a chord of aerodynamic surface without departing from the scope of the present invention. Varying the corrugation interval in a corrugated surface region could be used to completely prevent the laminar to turbulent flow transition.

As mentioned above the present invention can also utilize active flow disruptors to generate the desired damping region fluctuations. By way of example depict a region of spaced apart active flow disruptors A that can be realized by microwave antennas or high voltage electrodes embedded in an aerodynamic surface to be flush therewith and in contact with boundary layer flow . For example each active flow disruptor A can be the end of a monopole antenna B whose length L as shown in determines the antenna s resonance frequency. Flow disruptors A can be arranged longitudinally along aerodynamic surface such that they are perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the flow direction of boundary layer flow as shown. However the present invention is not so limited as flow disruptors A can be staggered as shown along aerodynamic surface or otherwise positioned thereat to achieve optimum performance.

The surface discharges or plasmas C generated by active flow disruptors A e.g. the end of monopole antenna B can be electronically programmed e.g. via a controlled power source coupled thereto to generate damping fluctuations whose frequency can be varied if desired. Each antenna B could be powered individually or sympathetically i.e. unconnected antennas siphoning power from adjacent powered antennas without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Active flow disruptors can be used alone as shown or used to supplement passive trips. For example alternating rows of passive trips and active flow disruptors could be used. Another option would be to use a single active flow disruptor in combination with multiple passive trips to tweak the generated induced fluctuations to improve the operational range of the present invention. Active flow disruptors can also be employed on surface areas that are difficult to access or where variability in the frequency is desired. Active flow disruptors can operate at any desired frequency add no drag to the flow and may provide the ultimate in programmable flow control. In this case the damping region frequency fis simply the disruptor s discharge or plasma frequency.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Specifically sized passive trips e.g. isolated corrugated surface etc. generate instabilities in boundary layer flow at specific forced frequencies in the damping region of the amplification rate spectrum. The result is a stabilization of the boundary layer flow and delay of its transition from laminar to turbulent flow. Forced instabilities using active flow disruptors may be particularly useful in augmenting passive trips. Application of the concept to shaped wings and fuselages will result in increased fuel efficiency and flight control while application of the concept to missiles will result in increased operational range.

Although the invention has been described relative to specific embodiments thereof there are numerous variations and modifications that will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

