---

title: Systems and methods for communicating notifications and textual data associated with applications
abstract: Embodiments are provided for communicating notifications and other textual data associated with applications installed on an electronic device. According to certain aspects, a user can interface with an input device to send () a wake up trigger to the electronic device. The electronic device retrieves () application notifications and converts () the application notifications to audio data. The electronic device also sends () the audio data to an audio output device for annunciation (). The user may also use the input device to send () a request to the electronic device to activate the display screen. The electronic device identifies () an application corresponding to an annunciated notification, and activates () the display screen and initiates the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400634&OS=09400634&RS=09400634
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09400634
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131204
---
This application generally relates to improving the user experience during interaction with electronic devices. In particular the application relates to platforms and techniques for communicating notifications and other textual data associated with applications installed on an electronic device.

As electronic devices such as smart phones continue to evolve and offer more diverse functionalities users continue to increase the amount of time they interact with these electronic devices. For example current smart phones and tablet computing devices offer movie viewing and music playback email support social networking applications and various productivity features that collectively make the electronic devices a singular hub for a variety of entertainment and productivity uses. Some applications of existing electronic devices support notifications that generally provide a condensed summary of various features updates or communications associated with the applications. For example a social networking application may support notifications associated with new friend requests a new message or interaction an available update and others.

However current electronic devices offer few options for communicating or otherwise indicating application notifications. For example some electronic devices display notifications on a home screen or similar interface. Further some electronic devices merely indicate available notifications via an icon or graphic. Accordingly a user of the electronic device must physically interact with the electronic device to access or view the notifications and then must then perform various additional steps to initiate a corresponding application if desired. Additionally displaying the notifications causes the electronic devices to quickly lose battery life because the display screen is often the component that requires the most battery power. Moreover current notification communication techniques do not account for the increasing prevalence of peripheral devices and components configured to interface with electronic devices such as smart watches wireless external speakers and the like.

Accordingly there is an opportunity to implement embodiments for effectively and efficiently communicating notifications and other textual data associated with applications installed on an electronic device while reducing the required user interaction for both consuming the notifications and initiating any corresponding applications. Additionally there is an opportunity to implement embodiments for leveraging peripheral devices and components to facilitate the communication of notifications and textual data.

Embodiments as detailed herein enable effective and efficient communication of application notifications and other textual data. An electronic device supports a set of applications that individually have notification capabilities. For example a weather application may support notifications for severe weather and a map application may support notifications for turn by turn directions estimated time of arrival and others. The electronic device is configured to generate speech synthesized audio data that corresponds to the notifications and textual data. The embodiments may also include an audio output device such as an external speaker as well as an input device such as a peripheral hardware component that includes input selectors. According to aspects the audio output device and the input device may be included as part of the electronic device or may be separate from and connectable to the electronic device via various communication channels.

The input device enables a user to initiate the generation and annunciation or playback of the audio data. In particular the electronic device may receive a request from the input device to generate the audio data corresponding to one or more notifications and textual data and send the generated audio data to the audio output device for audible annunciation. The user may further use the input device to control the playback of the generated audio data such as if the user wishes to skip one or more notifications. In some cases the user may wish for the electronic device to initiate a particular application based on one of the annunciated notifications. For example if the user hears the subject line of an unread email the user can cause the input device to send a request to the electronic device to cease outputting the notifications activate the display screen and initiate an email application that navigates to the unread email.

The embodiments as discussed herein offer benefits to users by annunciating application notifications for the user without the user having to physically view the electronic device. Accordingly the embodiments enable the user to perform other tasks while the audio output device annunciates the notifications. Further by leveraging the audio output device to annunciate the notifications the electronic device need not turn on its display screen and will therefore conserve battery life. Moreover the embodiments enable users to leverage peripheral devices such as smart watches to consume the notifications such as in cases in which the electronic device is not easily accessible. It should be appreciated that additional benefits and improvements may be realized by the embodiments.

Although some portions of this Detailed Description describe generating audio data corresponding to one of application notifications or textual data it should be appreciated that the various embodiments as described herein support generating audio data corresponding to either or both of the application notifications and the textual data.

The electronic device can be configured to connect to one or more audio output devices via a network . According to embodiments the electronic device is configured to transmit or send the speech synthesized audio data to one or more of the audio output devices for audible annunciation via an audio output component e.g. a speaker of the respective audio output devices . Each audio output device may be a Bluetooth headset a watch a desktop or notebook computer a mobile phone a PDA a smart phone a tablet computer a multimedia player an MP3 player a digital broadcast receiver a remote controller or any other electronic apparatus that includes an audio output component. Although illustrates two 2 audio output devices it should be appreciated that other amounts and types of audio output devices are envisioned.

The electronic device can also be configured to connect to one or more input devices via a network . Each of the input devices is configured to send commands to the electronic device to initiate the notification identification and audio data generation as well as send commands to control some of the display based functions of the electronic device . For example a command can instruct the electronic device to turn off or otherwise obscure its display screen. Further each of the input devices via the electronic device is configured to control the playback annunciation e.g. rewind fast forward skip etc. of the speech synthesized audio data on the corresponding audio output device . Each of the input devices can include an input selector or other type of actuator component button rocker touch screen touch pad camera infrared sensor or other component or input configured for selection by a user that causes the corresponding input device to send the commands to the electronic device . Each of the input devices may be a Bluetooth headset a watch a desktop or notebook computer a mobile phone a PDA a smart phone a tablet computer a multimedia player an MP3 player a digital broadcast receiver a remote controller or any other electronic apparatus. Although illustrates three 3 input devices it should be appreciated that other amounts and types of input devices are envisioned.

Although not illustrated in it should be appreciated that an audio output device and an input device may be combined into a single device. For example a smart watch may include both an external speaker configured to annunciate audio as well as an input selector configured for actuation by a user to initiate sending a command to the electronic device . Further although not illustrated in it should be appreciated that an audio output device and an input device may be combined into the electronic device . For example a smart phone may have a set of applications installed therein as well as an external speaker for annunciating audio and an input selector e.g. a power button or a volume up button for actuation by a user to initiate audio generation and or control audio playback.

The networks as described herein can each be a wired or wireless local area network LAN WLAN or personal area network PAN WPAN . It should be appreciated that each of the networks may facilitate any type of data communication via various standards or technologies e g infrared ZigBee near field communication NFC Z Wave Wireless USB IEEE 802 including Ethernet WiMAX WiFi Bluetooth and others .

The functionalities can begin with the input device sending a wake up trigger to the audio generation module . The wake up trigger can be initiated by a user of the input device via a selection of an input selector e.g. a key hardware button software button or other selectors . In some cases the wake up trigger may be an audio command. Although not illustrated in the audio generation module may process the wake up trigger differently based on the type of trigger which will be discussed later with respect to .

Responsive to receiving the wake up trigger the audio generation module can request the notification module for one or more notifications or other textual data associated with one or more applications executing on or otherwise installed on the electronic device . In embodiments the audio generation module may communicate with the notification module using an application programming interface API of an operating system of the electronic device . The notification module can retrieve any notifications associated with the application s . In some cases the notification module can be a component of an operating system of the electronic device whereby the notification module communicates with the applications at the operating system level and requests the notifications. In some embodiments the audio generation module may retrieve the notifications via directly communicating with the applications.

The notification module can send or provide the notifications to the audio generation module . The audio generation module can open a connection with or can discover the audio output device for example via a PAN WPAN LAN WLAN or other type of connection. In some cases the audio generation module can open the connection in response to receiving the wake up trigger at . The audio generation module can also convert one or more of the notifications received from the notification module to audio data. In particular the audio generation module may generate speech synthesized audio data text to speech data based on the notifications or portions thereof. The audio generation module can send the audio notification data to the audio output device and the audio output device can audibly annunciate the audio notification data for example via an external speaker or other audio output component. According to embodiments a display screen of the electronic device may be powered off or otherwise obscured after sending the audio notification data.

According to embodiments the input device may also facilitate the playback annunciation of the audio notification data on the audio output device . For example the input device can send a next command to the audio generation module such as if a user of the input device selects a designated input selector e.g. a volume up button . The next command can instruct the audio generation module to send a subsequent audio notification to the audio output device . In response to receiving the next command the audio generation module can send a stop command to the audio output device that instructs the audio output device to stop annunciating audio data corresponding to the current notification. The audio output device can send a finished response to the audio generation module that indicates that the audio output device stopped annunciating the current notification. Although not illustrated in it should be appreciated that the input device audio generation module and audio output device may support other playback commands such as for example pause rewind fast forward replay stop and others.

Although not depicted in it should be appreciated that the devices may dynamically change roles. For example a Bluetooth headset i.e. audio output device may annunciate certain audio notification data sent from a smart phone i.e. electronic device and then a user may select e.g. via an input selector to have the smart phone annunciate additional audio notification data thus enabling the smart phone to have the audio output device role. Similarly if the smart phone speaker is annunciating audio notification data the user may use the Bluetooth headset to request that the Bluetooth headset be the audio output device. Further in embodiments one or more additional input devices may connect to the electronic device and send various triggers and playback commands to the electronic device . For example a user may use both a smart watch and an external headset as input devices for audio notification playback. The electronic device can queue the received commands according to time of receipt and then process the commands sequentially.

The audio generation module can also determine if there are additional notifications that need to be annunciated as audio data. If there are additional notifications YES processing can return to at which the audio generation module can convert an additional notification to audio data and then facilitate the audio notification annunciating via the audio output device . If there are not additional notifications NO processing can proceed to at which the audio generation module may receive a display on request from the input device . According to embodiments a user of the input device may trigger the display on request if the user wishes to have the electronic device initiate an application. In particular the application may correspond to the currently annunciating or most recently annunciated audio notification. For example if the audio output device annunciates a notification that indicates a new text message the user can cause the electronic device to initiate a corresponding text messaging application via the display on request from the input device . In some embodiments the audio generation module may receive the display on request before determining if there are additional notifications at .

In an optional embodiment the audio generation module can send a stop output request to the audio output device and the audio output device can cease from annunciating any audio notification data. The audio output device can optionally send a finished response to the audio generation module indicating that the audio output device has stopped annunciating audio notification data. Further the audio output device can optionally enter into a sleep mode.

Responsive to receiving the display on request the audio generation module can identify an application that corresponds to the currently annunciating or most recently annunciated audio notification. For example if the audio generation module sends audio data to the audio output device corresponding to a new friend request notification for a social networking application and then receives a display on request from the input device the audio generation module may identify the social networking application as the application to initiate. Further the audio generation module can send a command to the notification module to initiate the application. Responsive to receiving the command the notification module can activate a display screen of the electronic device and initiate the application.

The first illustration of depicts the electronic device with a display screen powered off. The input device sends the wake up trigger to the electronic device . The second illustration of depicts the electronic device responding to the wake up trigger . In particular the electronic device connects to the audio output device and sends audio data to the audio output device . In particular the audio data is speech synthesized audio data corresponding to notifications and or other types of textual data associated with one or more applications installed on the electronic device . Further the audio output device audibly annunciates the audio data via a component such as a speaker . The display screen of the electronic device remains powered off or otherwise obscured during the audio data annunciation.

The third illustration of depicts the input device sending a display on request to the electronic device . Responsive to receiving the request the electronic device sends a stop output request to the audio output device after which the audio output device can cease annunciating the audio data and optionally send a finished response to the electronic device . The electronic device can identify the application corresponding to the currently annunciating or most recently annunciated notification or textual data . For example as shown in the fourth illustration of the most recently annunciated notification may correspond to the Google application. Accordingly the electronic device can power on or activate the display screen and initiate the Google application for interaction with the user.

The functionalities can begin with the display screen of the electronic device activated . The input device sends a notification output trigger to the audio generation module . The notification output trigger can be initiated by a user of the input device via a selection of an input selector e.g. a key hardware button software button or other selectors . In some cases the notification output trigger may be an audio command. Although not illustrated in the audio generation module may process the notification output trigger differently based on the type of trigger which will be discussed later with respect to .

The audio generation module can request the notification module for an identification of the foreground application. For purposes of explanation the foreground application is the application that is currently displayed on the display screen of the electronic device . The foreground application is in contrast to one or more background applications that may be executing on the electronic device but are not displayed on the display screen. The notification module can send or provide the identification of the foreground application and a status thereof. For example the foreground application may be the Gmail application and the status may indicate two 2 unread emails. Although not illustrated in the audio generation module may also retrieve from the notification module notifications associated with one or more background applications if the display screen is not displaying a foreground application. This functionality is discussed later with respect to .

The audio generation module determines if the foreground application has audio user interface support. In particular the foreground application has audio user interface support if the audio generation module is able to generate speech synthesized audio data corresponding to notifications or other textual data associated with the foreground application. If the foreground application does not have audio user interface support NO the audio generation module may send a display off command to the notification module . Upon receipt of the display off command the notification module can obscure the display screen. It should be appreciated that obscuring the display screen may include turning off or dimming part or all of the display screen entering a standby mode or performing other actions to modify the display screen. The audio generation module can also send a display off announcement to the audio output device and the audio output device can annunciate the display off announcement for example to inform the user that there is no application audio data to annunciate. Processing may then proceed to or to other processing at which the audio generation module can enter a sleep mode.

If the application does have audio user interface support YES the audio generation module may send a display off command to the notification module . Upon receipt of the display off command the notification module can obscure the display screen according to various techniques as discussed above. The audio generation module can also open a connection with or can discover the audio output device for example via a PAN WPAN LAN WLAN or other type of connection. The audio generation module can also retrieve a text stream for the application and convert the text stream to an audio data stream e.g. as speech synthesized audio data . In embodiments the text stream may be any sort of textual data associated with the application e.g. the body of an email any notifications associated with the application e.g. a sports score or any combination thereof. Further in some embodiments at least some of the retrieved text stream may be displayed on the display screen when the audio generation module receives the notification output trigger. For example if the display screen displays a series of sports scores when the input device sends the notification output trigger the retrieved text stream may include the series of displayed sports scores. Although not illustrated in the audio generation module may interface with the notification module or directly with the application itself to retrieve the text stream for the application.

The audio generation module can send the audio data stream to the audio output device and upon receipt the audio output device can annunciate the audio data stream via an external component such as a speaker or other audio output component. When the audio output device completes annunciating the audio data stream the audio output device can send a finished response to the audio generation module . Next the audio generation module can determine if there is an additional text stream. For example the additional text stream may correspond to additional textual data of the application an additional notification or a combination thereof. If there is an additional text stream YES processing can return to or to other processing at which the audio generation module may process the additional text stream and send an additional audio data stream to the audio output device for annunciation. If there is not an additional text stream NO processing may proceed to or to other processing at which the audio generation module can enter a sleep mode.

The first illustration of depicts the electronic device with a display screen powered on and displaying the Google application. The input device sends the notification output trigger to the electronic device to request audio data for any notifications or textual data associated with the foreground application i.e. Google . The second illustration of depicts the electronic device responding to the notification output trigger. In particular the electronic device obscures the display screen and connects to the audio output device . Further the electronic device retrieves a text stream or any type of textual data or notification associated with the Google application and converts the text stream to audio data . In some embodiments at least some of the text stream may correspond to textual data that is displayed on the display screen in .

The third illustration of depicts the electronic device sending the audio data e.g. speech synthesized audio data corresponding to notifications or other types of textual data to the audio output device . The fourth illustration of depicts the audio output device audibly annunciating the audio data via a component such as a speaker . The display screen of the electronic device remains powered off during the audio data annunciating.

The electronic device determines whether its display screen is OFF or ON. If the display screen is OFF NO processing can proceed to . If the display screen is ON YES the electronic device determines whether there is a foreground application. In particular a foreground application corresponds to an application installed on the electronic device that is currently executing and displaying on the display screen. If there is a foreground application YES processing can proceed to . If there is not a foreground application NO the electronic device determines the type of the trigger received at . In embodiments the trigger may initiate from a selection of a hardware button e.g. a power button a volume up or down button a home button etc. a soft button or any other type of selector. Generally if the trigger initiates from a power button and there is no foreground application the user may desire to simply power off or otherwise obscure the display screen without any audio annunciation. Otherwise if the trigger initiates from a selection other than the power button the user may desire to listen to audio notifications or textual data associated with one or more applications.

Accordingly if the type of trigger is a power button POWER BUTTON the electronic device obscures the display screen and processing may end or proceed to any other processing. If the type of trigger is not a power button NON POWER BUTTON the electronic device obscures the display screen and retrieves one or more notifications associated with the foreground application if there is a foreground application and or any non foreground applications i.e. background applications executing on the electronic device. To retrieve the one or more notifications the electronic device may directly communicate with the application s or indirectly communicate with the application s via an operating system level module such as a notification module. The electronic device may then communicate with an audio output device and send audio data corresponding to the notification s to the audio output device. In some cases the electronic device itself may include the audio output device e.g. a speaker component . The audio output device annunciates as audio data a current notification.

The electronic device then determines if a display on request to launch an application has been received. The display on request may correspond to a user activation of an input selector of the electronic device itself or of a separate input device. If the display on request has been received YES the electronic device turns on or otherwise activates the display screen. Further the electronic device identifies the application that corresponds to the currently annunciating or most recently annunciated notification and launches that application. Processing can then end or proceed to any other functionality. If the display on request has not been received NO the electronic device determines if there are more notifications to annunciate. If there are more notifications YES processing can return to at which the electronic device converts an additional notification to audio data and facilitates the audio annunciation of the additional notification. If there are not more notifications NO processing can end or proceed to any other functionality.

Referring back to if there is a foreground application YES the electronic device determines whether the foreground application has audio user interface support for example via the application programming interface API of the operating system of the electronic device. If the foreground application does not have audio user interface support NO processing can proceed to at which the electronic device examines the type of trigger. In contrast if the foreground application does have audio support YES the electronic device obscures the display screen. Further the electronic device identifies any notifications or textual data associated with the foreground application and generates audio data based on the notification s or textual data. The electronic device may then communicate with an audio output device and send audio data corresponding to the notification s or textual data to the audio output device. In some cases the electronic device itself may include the audio output device e.g. a speaker component . The audio output device annunciates as audio data a current application element i.e. notification or textual data .

The electronic device then determines if a display on request to return to the foreground application display has been received. The display on request may correspond to a user activation of an input selector of the electronic device itself or of a separate input device. If the display on request has been received YES the electronic device turns on or otherwise activates the display screen. Further the electronic device expands the corresponding application element for the foreground application. For example if the foreground application is an email application and the audio output device recites a subject of an email the electronic device can cause the email application to display that email for review by the user. Processing can then end or proceed to any other functionality. If the display on request has not been received NO the electronic device determines if there are more foreground application elements to annunciate. If there are more application elements YES processing can return to at which the electronic device converts an additional application element to audio data and facilitates the audio annunciation of the additional application element. If there are not more application elements NO processing can end or proceed to any other functionality.

The electronic device can further include a communication module configured to interface with one or more external ports to communicate data via one or more networks . For example the communication module can leverage the external ports to establish a personal area network and secure channels associated therewith for connecting the electronic device to other components such as an audio output device and an input device. According to some embodiments the communication module can include one or more transceivers functioning in accordance with IEEE standards 3GPP standards or other standards and configured to receive and transmit data via the one or more external ports . More particularly the communication module can include one or more WLAN and or WPAN transceivers configured to connect the electronic device to local area networks and or personal area networks. For example the electronic device can connect to an audio output device via a Bluetooth network.

The electronic device can further include one or more sensors such as for example imaging sensors accelerometers touch sensors and other sensors as well as NFC components such as an NFC chip and or an NFC tag for pairing the electronic device with one or more other electronic devices. The electronic device may include a user interface to present information to the user and or receive inputs from the user. As shown in the user interface includes a display screen and I O components e.g. capacitive or resistive touch sensitive input panels keys buttons lights LEDs cursor control devices haptic devices and others . In embodiments the display screen is a touchscreen display using singular or combinations of display technologies and can include a thin transparent touch sensor component superimposed upon a display section that is viewable by a user. For example such displays include capacitive displays resistive displays surface acoustic wave SAW displays optical imaging displays and the like. The user interface may further include an audio module including hardware components such as a speaker for annunciating audio data and a microphone for detecting or receiving audio. For example the microphone can detect audio tones or commands used in a discovery routine. For further example the speaker can annunciate speech synthesized audio data corresponding to notification s of one of the set of applications and generated by the audio generation module .

In general a computer program product in accordance with an embodiment includes a computer usable storage medium e.g. standard random access memory RAM an optical disc a universal serial bus USB drive or the like having computer readable program code embodied therein wherein the computer readable program code is adapted to be executed by the processor e.g. working in connection with the operating system to facilitate the functions as described herein. In this regard the program code may be implemented in any desired language and may be implemented as machine code assembly code byte code interpretable source code or the like e.g. via C C Java Actionscript Objective C Javascript CSS XML and or others .

Thus it should be clear from the preceding disclosure that the systems and methods offer improved application notification communication techniques. The embodiments advantageously enable users to easily control the playback of audio notifications without requiring the users to physically interact with user interfaces or requiring the electronic devices to power their display screens. Additionally the embodiments advantageously enable users to leverage peripheral devices to facilitate the application notification communication.

This disclosure is intended to explain how to fashion and use various embodiments in accordance with the technology rather than to limit the true intended and fair scope and spirit thereof. The foregoing description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to the precise forms disclosed. Modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment s were chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principle of the described technology and its practical application and to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the technology in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the embodiments as determined by the appended claims as may be amended during the pendency of this application for patent and all equivalents thereof when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

