---

title: Communication protocol preferences
abstract: Systems and methods for the management of communications related to telecommunications-based devices are provided. Telecommunications-based devices initiate requests to gateway computing devices corresponding to a radio communication network to establish data communications. The gateway computing device accepts the communication request and specifies an ordered preference of one or more communication protocols that will be used telecommunications-based devices accessing the wireless communication network. The telecommunications-based device processes the acceptance and selects a communication protocol from the ordered preference provided by the gateway computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226131&OS=09226131&RS=09226131
owner: T-Mobile USA, INC.
number: 09226131
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 770 632 entitled COMMUNICATION PROTOCOL PREFERENCES and filed Apr. 29 2010 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Generally described computing devices and communication networks facilitate the collection and exchange of information. Utilizing a communication network and relevant communication protocols a computing device can engage in data communications with a wide variety of computing devices. For example in accordance with an addressing protocol a computing device can interact with specific computing devices by specifying data packets intended for specific network based addresses. Prior to initiating connectivity to the communication network however the external computing devices must have some type of agreement with the computing devices associated with communication networks often referred to as gateway computing devices as to the communication protocols that will be utilized to facilitate communication.

In accordance with a telecommunications based environment telecommunications based devices such as mobile terminals establish communications with gateway computing devices via a wireless communication network. The gateway computing devices provide data communication to data networks such as the local area network or wide area networks e.g. the Internet . Typically a service provider maintains the wireless access communication network and gateway computing device for telecommunications based devices that are associated with subscribers customers of the service provider often referred to as a home network. Additionally multiple service providers have business relationships that allow telecommunications based devices that are not associated with subscribers customer of the particular service provider to use a foreign visitor radio access network to access other data networks. The non subscribers telecommunications based devices are often referred to as roaming telecommunications based devices from the perspective of the service provider and the wireless communication network are often referred to as visiting networks foreign networks from the perspective of the non subscriber telecommunications based device.

Subscriber telecommunications based devices are often configured with software applications configurations or other settings that specify the type of communication protocols that will be utilized to establish communications with the home network gateway computing devices. For example a home network service provider can provision subscriber telecommunications based device with the specification of the specific type of addressing protocol that will be utilized to transmit data via the home network. In contrast visiting network service providers typically have not ability to configure roaming telecommunications based devices prior to the roaming telecommunications based devices attempting to establish communications with the visiting network. Moreover these non subscriber telecommunications based devices e.g. roaming telecommunications based devices may be configured in accordance with their respective home network configurations that may be incompatible or non optimal with the corresponding configurations for the visiting network.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure relate to the management of communications related to telecommunications based devices. In an illustrative embodiment gateway computing devices corresponding to a radio communication network can specify an ordered preference of one or more communication protocols that will be used telecommunications based devices accessing the wireless communication network. Additionally by integrating the specification of the ordered preference of the one more communication protocols into a response to initial access request the requesting telecommunications based device can mitigate the need for repeating access requests. Illustratively the present disclosure will be discussed with regard to the specification of an ordered preference for various addressing protocols utilized in conjunction with data packet delivery via the wireless communication networks including the Internet Protocol version 4 IPv4 and the Internet Protocol version 6 IPv6 addressing protocols.

Although aspects of the present disclosure will be described with regard to an illustrative telecommunication environment and component interactions communication protocols and flow diagrams one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting. Specifically although the present disclosure will be described with regard to the two above referenced addressing protocols the systems and methods in the present disclosure may utilized in conjunction with various communication protocols including additional or different addressing protocols. Additionally although the term telecommunication device is used in this document the term represents any type of device having a component for communicating with one or more other devices via one or more communication paths. Such communication paths can include wireless communication paths via infra red RF optical terrestrial or satellite communication media and wired communication paths. Still further although the present disclosure references a telecommunications based device one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a telecommunications based device may also be referred to as a wireless computing device a mobile communication device a mobile terminal or a computing device. Examples of telecommunication devices are described below with regard to . Accordingly reference to a telecommunication device should not be interpreted as including any particular functionality or operation not described in the present disclosure.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrative of a telecommunication environment will be described. The telecommunication device communication environment can include a number of telecommunications based device associated with a user. The telecommunications based device can correspond to a wide variety of devices or components that are capable of initiating receiving or facilitating communications over a radio communication network including but not limited to personal computing devices electronic book readers e.g. e book readers hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices home electronics appliances vehicles machinery landline telephones network based telephones e.g. voice over IP VoIP cordless telephones cellular telephones smart phones modems personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices media devices and the like. In an illustrative embodiment the telecommunications based device include a wide variety of software and hardware components for establishing communications over one or more communication networks including wireless communication network or a wired communication network not shown . Illustrative components of a telecommunications based device will be described in greater detail with regard to .

With continued reference to in communication with the telecommunications based devices are a number of computing devices generally referred to as gateway computing devices. Specifically as illustrated in the gateway computing devices can include a mobility management anchor computing device for obtaining requests for connectivity to communication networks from telecommunications based devices via the wireless communication network . Illustratively the mobility management anchor computing device may correspond to a Mobility Management Entity MME key control node as specified for the Long Term Evolution LTE air interface protocol. In another example the mobility management anchor computing device may correspond to the Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN node in according the General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS air interface protocols. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the mobility management anchor computing device is not limited to any specific structure or component of any one air interface protocol.

As will be discussed in greater detail below the mobility management anchor computing device can maintain data such as in the form of data tables that facilitate the selection of an ordered preference of communication protocols to be utilized by telecommunications based device . Specifically the mobility management anchor computing device can maintain one or more communication protocol data stores for maintaining the data for determining the ordered preference of communication protocols. The communication protocol data stores may correspond to a single data store or a set of data stores maintain either locally or in a distributed manner. Still further at least some portion of the communication protocol data stores may correspond to service provider home networks. Additionally at least some portion of the communication protocol data stores may correspond to service provider visited networks. The telecommunication device communication environment can further include one or more access gateway computing devices that facilitate or otherwise provider data connectivity to the communication network .

In an illustrative embodiment the telecommunication device communication environment can include a number of additional components systems and or subsystems for facilitating communications with the telecommunications based devices and or the mobility management anchor computing device or other devices. The additional components can facilitate wireless communication network such as a cellular radio access network a wireless network based on the family of IEEE 802.11 technical standards WiFi a wireless network based on IEEE 802.16 standards WiMax a converged wireless telecommunication network such as Unlicensed Mobile Access UMA or General Access Network GAN and other wireless networks. The operation of mobile communication networks such as wireless communication network are well known and will not be described in greater detail. Additionally although the wireless communication network is illustrated as a single communication network one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the communication network can be made up of any number of public or private communication networks and or network connections.

With reference now to illustrative components of a telecommunication device such as telecommunications based device for use in the creation and display of group based information displays will be described. The telecommunications based device may include one or more processing units such as one or more CPUs. The telecommunications based device may also include system memory which may correspond to any combination of volatile and or non volatile storage mechanisms. The system memory may store information which provides an operating system component various program components program data and other components. The above enumerated list of components is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed or components implemented by the telecommunications based device . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative components may also be included in the telecommunications based device to carry out other intended functions such as a mobile telephone functions. The telecommunications based device performs functions by using the processing unit s to execute instructions provided by the system memory . The telecommunications based device may also include one or more input devices keyboard mouse device specialized selection keys etc. and one or more output devices displays printers audio output mechanisms etc. .

With continued reference to the telecommunications based device may also include one or more types of removable storage and one or more types of non removable storage . Still further the telecommunications based device can include communication components for facilitating communication via wired and wireless communication networks such as the wireless communication network and data network . Examples of various communication protocols include but are not limited to Bluetooth the family of IEEE 802.11 technical standards WiFi the IEEE 802.16 standards WiMax short message service SMS voice over IP VoIP as well as various generation cellular air interface protocols including but not limited to air interface protocols based on CDMA TDMA GSM WCDMA CDMA2000 TD SCDMA WTDMA LTE OFDMA and similar technologies .

With reference now to an illustrative example of an embodiment for the specification of communication protocols between a mobile telecommunications based device and a gateway computing devices such as the mobility management anchor computing device will be described. With reference to in a traditional embodiment a telecommunications based device transmits a request to establish communications via the wireless communication network . In this traditional embodiment the request from the telecommunications based device includes a specification of the addressing protocols to be utilized by the telecommunications based device in data communications.

For purposes of illustration assume that the telecommunications based device request included a specification by the telecommunications based device of the IPv6 addressing protocol. If the receiving mobility management anchor computing device does not support IPv6 addressing or otherwise does not wish the requesting telecommunications based device to utilize the IPv6 addressing protocol the mobility management anchor computing device would process and reject the request submitted by the telecommunications based device .

With reference now to in the same traditional embodiment upon receipt of the rejection to the IPv6 based request the telecommunications based device would have to transmit a new communication request. In this second request the telecommunications based device would specify a different addressing protocol illustrative IPv4. Assuming the mobility management anchor computing device supports IPv4 addressing for the requesting telecommunications based device the mobility management anchor computing device would process and accept the request. However as illustrated in this traditional approach can be inefficient in requiring at least two or more requests from the telecommunications based device . The embodiment illustrated in may be especially predominant in situations in which the telecommunications based device is roaming and the mobility management anchor computing device corresponding to a visited network.

With reference now to an illustrative example of another embodiment for the specification of communication protocols between a mobile telecommunications based device and a gateway computing devices such as the mobility management anchor computing device will be described. With reference to in an illustrative embodiment a telecommunications based device transmits a request to establish communications via the wireless communication network . In this illustrative embodiment however the request from the telecommunications based device does include a specification of the addressing protocols to be utilized by the telecommunications based device in data communications. In one embodiment the request does not include any specification of the addressing protocol to be utilized. In another embodiment the request can include preferences for addressing protocols or a specification of an addressing protocol can be treated as a preference for an addressing protocol.

In contrast to the embodiment of the mobility management anchor computing device processes the initial communication request and transmits and acknowledgement notification to the telecommunications based device . Included in the acknowledgement notification is an ordered set of addressing protocols the mobility management anchor computing device is specifying for the requesting telecommunications based device . The ordered set of addressing protocols is determined at least in part on attributes of the telecommunications based device and can include the specification of a single specified addressing protocol.

With reference now to in this illustrative embodiment upon receipt of the acknowledgment notification the telecommunications based device processes the ordered set of addressing protocols to select an addressing protocol. The telecommunications based device then utilizes the selected addressing protocol to establish data communications via the mobility management anchor computing device . Additionally in the event that more than one addressing protocol is specified in the ordered set of addressing protocols the telecommunications based device may attempt to establish data connection multiple times in the order of the ordered set of preferences until it can achieve data communications via the mobility management anchor computing device .

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrative of a communication request processing routine implemented by a gateway computing device in telecommunication environment such as the mobility management anchor computing device will be described. At block the mobility management anchor computing device obtains a request to establish data communications from a computing device such as telecommunications based device via the wireless communication network . For example the request to establish data communications can correspond to an attach request transmitted from the telecommunications based device . In an illustrative embodiment the request from the telecommunications based device can include one or more attributes of the telecommunications based device or user of the telecommunications based device that will be utilized by the mobility management anchor computing device as described below. The attributes of the telecommunications based device may specifically be included in the request such as via an application programming interface API or inferred from the communication request.

At block the mobility management anchor computing device processes the request to determine the ordered set of communication protocols to be utilized in data communications with the requesting telecommunications based device . In an illustrative embodiment the ordered set of set communication protocols includes an ordered set of addressing protocols which can include the specification of a single addressing protocol. Still further the ordered set can be specified such that the first specified addressing protocol is considered a primary addressing protocol and any additional specified addressing protocols are considered secondary addressing protocols.

In an illustrative embodiment the determination of the ordered set of communication protocols can be facilitated through data tables maintained by the mobility management anchor computing device in the communication protocol data stores . Specifically in an illustrative embodiment the data tables correspond to static tables that define the ordered set of addressing protocols or other communication protocols in accordance with one or more attributes associated with the telecommunications based device . Illustratively the attributes utilized in the selection of the ordered set can include telecommunications based device device type roaming status e.g. in home network vs. in visiting network roaming plan e.g. what is the home network and country associated with the telecommunications based device supported operating system user descriptors e.g. type of use or amount of data used supported applications or applications being executed by the telecommunications based device and the like. The attributes can correspond to information that can assist in the optimization of the performance of the telecommunications based device or in the level of service being provided to the user of the telecommunications based device . In an alternative embodiment the mobility management anchor computing device can dynamically determine the ordered set of communication protocols in accordance with the above referenced attributes. Additionally the mobility management anchor computing device can dynamically modify a static specification of the ordered set of communication protocols.

At block the mobility management anchor computing device transmits an acceptance of the communication request such as an attach accept or other acknowledgement notification to the requesting telecommunications based device . The transmitted acceptance includes the specification either directly or indirectly of the ordered set of communication protocols. The processing of the ordered set of communication protocols will be described with regard to . Thereafter at block the mobility management anchor computing device obtains an initiation of communications from the requesting telecommunications based device such as a receive attach acknowledgement with a selected communication protocol from the ordered set of communication protocols. At block the routine ends.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrative of a communication requesting routing implemented by a telecommunications based device will be described. At block the telecommunications based device transmits a communication request to the mobility management anchor computing device via the wireless communication network . Illustratively the communication request can correspond to an attach request. As previously discussed the communication request can include attribute information utilized by the mobility management anchor computing device to process the request and specify an ordered set of communication protocols in reply. The attribute information may be specifically provided as part of the communication request. Alternatively the attribute information may be included indirectly provided such as embedded in addressing information.

At block the telecommunications based device obtains a reply from the mobility management anchor computing device . In an illustrative embodiment the reply from the mobility management anchor computing device corresponds to an acceptance of the communication request or other notification acknowledgement. As previously discussed the reply includes the specification of an ordered set of communication protocols the telecommunications based device may utilize in data communications. At block the telecommunications based device processes the ordered set of communication protocol to select a communication protocol such as to select an addressing protocol. An example of the processing of the ordered set of communication protocols will be described with regard to sub routine . At block the telecommunications based device initiates communications with the selected communication protocol. At block the routine terminates.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrative of a communication protocol selection sub routine implemented by the telecommunications based device will be described. At block the telecommunications based device obtains the ordered set of communication protocols such as addressing protocols. As previously discussed the ordered set of protocols can include a specification of a single communication protocol. Additionally the ordered set of protocols can designate primary and secondary communication protocols. Accordingly at decision block a test is conducted to determine whether a single communication protocol has been specified in the ordered set of communication protocols. If so at block the specified communication protocol is selected and the sub routine terminates such that the telecommunications based device will attempt to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol.

With continued reference to if at decision block multiple communication protocols are specified at block the telecommunications based device selects the primary designated communication protocol and then attempts to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol. At decision block a test is conducted to determine whether the telecommunications based device was able to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol. If so the sub routine terminates at block . Alternatively if the telecommunications based device was not able to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol at block the telecommunications based device selects the secondary communication protocol and then attempts to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol. At decision block a test is conducted to determine whether the telecommunications based device was able to establish communications in accordance with the selected communication protocol. If so the sub routine terminates at block . Alternatively the sub routine terminates in an error at block or repeats decision block for additional secondary designated communication protocols.

All of the processes described herein may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. As such reference in the disclosure to actions performed by a module or component relates to the execution of executable instructions by a processing device or devices to cause the referenced action to be performed.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

