---

title: Voice based automation testing for hands free module
abstract: An electronic control unit (ECU) of a hands-free module may be tested by an automated voice based testing tool in a first device. The tool reads test input data from an Excel input file. The tool generates simulated audible voice commands in a specified language, accent, pitch, volume or speed to test the hands-free module. The voice commands are transmitted via a speaker to a hands-free module microphone. The hands-free ECU is coupled to a CAN bus and the tool receives CAN bus information corresponding to hands-free module operations. The tool outputs test verdict information and/or CAN bus message logs as text in an Excel file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349365&OS=09349365&RS=09349365
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09349365
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130314
---
This disclosure relates to voice based testing of an electronic control unit ECU . In particular this disclosure relates to voice based testing of electronic equipment such as hands free systems in motor vehicles.

Hands free systems for example voice based systems may respond to audible commands and perform specified actions without manual or touch control by a user. Some hands free systems may work with one or more other devices to complete an action such as making a phone call changing a radio station interacting with a navigation system or interacting with other telematics services. In some systems a hands free module may communicate with another device via a communications bus such as a control area network CAN bus. For example a hands free module installed in a vehicle may respond to a user s voice command to change a radio station and may transmit a message over a control area network to a radio and or a display screen to change the station. In another example a hands free module may respond to a user s voice command such as call Smith. The hands free module may communicate via Bluetooth technology or another wireless or wired technology with a mobile phone to initiate a phone call. While the phone is being controlled by the hands free module a microphone speaker and or display unit of the hands free module may function in place of such interfaces of the mobile phone. In instances when the hands free module is installed in an automobile the microphone may be located in a rear view mirror or the display and speaker unit may be installed in a dashboard for example. Other controls may also interact with the hands free module for example manual controls in a steering wheel or associated with a display unit may be utilized to activate the hands free module. As voice based systems become more sophisticated and numerous improved automated testing techniques are desirable.

An automated testing tool hosted in a first computer device may test operations of an electronic control unit ECU in a hands free module second device. The automated testing tool may read test input data from text data in an input file. The automated testing tool may generate one or more simulated audible voice commands for the hands free module testing. The hands free second device may be communicatively coupled to a control area network CAN bus. The automated testing tool may receive information from the CAN bus where the CAN bus information may correspond to operations of the hands free second device. The automated testing tool may output text in file including verdict information corresponding to the testing. Moreover the output file may include all or a portion of the information from the CAN bus such as message logs corresponding to the testing.

An automated test solution may communicate with an electronic control unit ECU and instruct the ECU to perform one or more actions in order to perform a test of the ECU. Responses to the instructions may include communication by the ECU over a control area network CAN bus. The responses may be logged by the automated test system and the system may determine success or failure of the test. In some systems input to the automated test solution may be provided by an Excel spreadsheet which may be read by the automated test solution. Test results may be provided by the automated test solution in an Excel spread sheet.

In a first aspect one embodiment of the invention is a method for testing a hands free device by an automated testing tool hosted by a first device. Test input may be read from text in an input file and utilized for testing operations of a hands free second device. The hands free second device may be communicatively coupled to a control area network CAN bus. One or more simulated audible voice commands may be generated for testing operations of the hands free second device based on the read test input. The automated testing tool may read information from the CAN bus. The CAN bus information may correspond to the operations of the hands free second device which may be responsive to the generated simulated audible voice commands. The automated testing tool may output text in an output file comprising one or both of verdict information corresponding to testing the operations of the hands free second device and all or a portion of the information received from the CAN bus. The text in the test input file may indicate the one or more simulated audible voice commands and one or more expected responses by the hands free second device. One or more simulated audible voice commands for the testing operations of the hands free second device may be generated by the automated testing tool based on text to speech logic and may comprise one or more of a specified language pronunciation regional accent volume pitch and speed. The automated testing tool may compare expected responses from the text in the read test input file to the information received from the CAN bus to determine the verdict information. Furthermore the first device and the second device may be communicatively coupled via a first mobile phone and a second mobile phone. The automated testing tool may be operable to receive the information from the CAN bus corresponding to a call initiated in the first mobile phone to the second mobile phone by the generated one or more simulated audible voice commands or a call initiated automatically by the automated testing tool in the second mobile phone to the first mobile phone based on the read test input. Generating one or more simulated audible voice commands may comprise transmitting the simulated audible voice commands from the first device via a speaker positioned to be sensed by a microphone communicatively coupled to the hands free second device. The hands free second device may comprise an electronic control unit ECU for a vehicle. The operations of the hands free second device may include communicating messages onto a CAN bus for communication to a display unit after one or more of receiving an audible voice command via an audio port reorganizing the voice command and comparing the voice command to a programmed voice grammar. Moreover the hands free second device may communicate messages onto the CAN bus for communication to the display unit after receiving one or more of a command via a wireless interface a command via an optical interface and a command via a wire line interface. The first device and the hands free second device may be communicatively coupled by a control area network CAN message processor. The automated testing tool may be operable to one or both of enable audible voice command operations in the hands free second device by transmitting a command to the hands free second device via the CAN message processor and receive the CAN bus information from the hands free second device via the CAN message processor.

In a second aspect another embodiment of the invention is a system for testing a hands free device. The system may comprise one or more circuits or processors in a first device. The one or more circuits or processors may be operable to read test input from text in an input file for testing operations of a hands free second device. The hands free second device may be communicatively coupled to a control area network CAN bus. One or more simulated audible voice commands may be generated for testing operations of the hands free second device based on the read test input. The automated testing tool may read information from the CAN bus. The CAN bus information may correspond to the operations of the hands free second device which may be responsive to the generated simulated audible voice commands. The automated testing tool may output text in an output file comprising one or both of verdict information corresponding to testing the operations of the hands free second device and all or a portion of the information received from the CAN bus. The text in the test input file may indicate the one or more simulated audible voice commands and one or more expected responses by the hands free second device. One or more simulated audible voice commands for the testing operations of the hands free second device may be generated by the automated testing tool based on text to speech logic and may comprise one or more of a specified language pronunciation regional accent volume pitch and speed. The automated testing tool may compare expected responses from the text in the read test input file to the information received from the CAN bus to determine the verdict information. Furthermore the first device and the second device may be communicatively coupled via a first mobile phone and a second mobile phone. The automated testing tool may be operable to receive the information from the CAN bus corresponding to a call initiated in the first mobile phone to the second mobile phone by the generated one or more simulated audible voice commands or a call initiated automatically by the automated testing tool in the second mobile phone to the first mobile phone based on the read test input. Generating one or more simulated audible voice commands may comprise transmitting the simulated audible voice commands from the first device via a speaker positioned to be sensed by a microphone communicatively coupled to the hands free second device. The hands free second device may comprise an electronic control unit ECU for a vehicle. The operations of the hands free second device may include communicating messages onto a CAN bus after one or more of receiving an audible voice command via an audio port reorganizing the voice command and comparing the voice command to a programmed voice grammar. Moreover the hands free second device may communicate messages onto the CAN bus after receiving one or more of a command via a wireless interface a command via an optical interface and a command via a wire line interface. The first device and the hands free second device may be communicatively coupled by a control area network CAN message processor. The automated testing tool may be operable to one or both of enable audible voice command operations in the hands free second device by transmitting a command to the hands free second device via the CAN message processor and receive the CAN bus information from the hands free second device via the CAN message processor.

In a third aspect still another embodiment of the invention is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon one or more instructions for testing a hands free device. The one or more instructions may be executable by one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform steps comprising in an automated testing tool hosted by a first device reading test input from text in an input file for testing operations of a hands free second device. The hands free second device may be communicatively coupled to a control area network CAN bus. One or more simulated audible voice commands may be generated for testing operations of the hands free second device based on the read test input. The automated testing tool may read information from the CAN bus. The CAN bus information may correspond to the operations of the hands free second device which may be responsive to the generated simulated audible voice commands. The automated testing tool may output text in an output file comprising one or both of verdict information corresponding to testing the operations of the hands free second device and all or a portion of the information received from the CAN bus. The text in the test input file may indicate the one or more simulated audible voice commands and one or more expected responses by the hands free second device. One or more simulated audible voice commands for the testing operations of the hands free second device may be generated by the automated testing tool based on text to speech logic and may comprise one or more of a specified language pronunciation regional accent volume pitch and speed. The automated testing tool may compare expected responses from the text in the read test input file to the information received from the CAN bus to determine the verdict information. Furthermore the first device and the second device may be communicatively coupled via a first mobile phone and a second mobile phone. The automated testing tool may be operable to receive the information from the CAN bus corresponding to a call initiated in the first mobile phone to the second mobile phone by the generated one or more simulated audible voice commands or a call initiated automatically by the automated testing tool in the second mobile phone to the first mobile phone based on the read test input. Generating one or more simulated audible voice commands may comprise transmitting the simulated audible voice commands from the first device via a speaker positioned to be sensed by a microphone communicatively coupled to the hands free second device. The hands free second device may comprise an electronic control unit ECU for a vehicle. The operations of the hands free second device may include communicating messages onto a CAN bus after one or more of receiving an audible voice command via an audio port reorganizing the voice command and comparing the voice command to a programmed voice grammar. Moreover the hands free second device may communicate messages onto the CAN bus after receiving one or more of a command via a wireless interface a command via an optical interface and a command via a wire line interface. The first device and the hands free second device may be communicatively coupled by a control area network CAN message processor. The automated testing tool may be operable to one or both of enable audible voice command operations in the hands free second device by transmitting a command to the hands free second device via the CAN message processor and receive the CAN bus information from the hands free second device via the CAN message processor.

Now turning to the figures is a representative block diagram of a control area network bus and a plurality of electronic control units communicatively coupled by the control area network bus. Referring to there is shown a system comprising a control area network CAN bus and a plurality of exemplary electronic control units ECU including a hands free module ECU a display ECU a steering ECU a body control ECU and an ECU . The ECUs shown in may be referred to as the ECU devices and . Moreover the ECUs shown in may be referred to as nodes modules units or embedded systems for example.

The CAN bus may enable the ECU devices and to communicate with each other using a CAN bus message based protocol. In some systems the CAN bus may utilize a multi master broadcast serial bus standard for communication among the ECUs. The CAN bus may be utilized in automotive systems aerospace industrial automation and medical equipment for example. One or more CAN standards may be applied to the CAN bus including standards from the Society of Automotive Engineers SAE and the international standards organization ISO . For example one or more versions or variations of the ISO 11898 standards for serial communication may be utilized. Moreover CAN bus standards may be utilized in on board diagnostics standards such as OBD II.

The ECU devices and may comprise embedded systems that control one or more electrical systems or subsystems in a motor vehicle or another type of equipment. For example the display ECU may control a display screen and or a corresponding control unit in a vehicular sub system. The steering ECU may control components in a steering subsystem which may support steering a vehicle and or other types of controls that may be installed in a steering wheel. The body control ECU may control an air conditioner wipers washers windows lights horn or other sensor and or control subsystems for example. Many other types of ECUs not shown that may be connected to the CAN bus may include for example one or more of an electronic or engine control module ECM a powertrain control module PCM a transmission control module TCM a brake control module BCM or EBCM central control module CCM central timing module CTM general electronic module GEM suspension control module SCM . Some motor vehicles may have on the order of eighty ECUs.

In operation each of the nodes on the CAN bus including the ECU devices and may be operable to send and or receive CAN messages serially onto the bus. The messages may each include an identifier. The messages may be sensed by all nodes on the CAN bus . In instances when a message is relevant to a node the node may process the message. In some systems the CAN bus may utilize a priority based arbitration.

The ECU may be a hands free module and may be configured to be communicatively coupled to a control area network as described with respect to . The ECU may be an embedded system that may control functions and or devices of a larger system such as an in vehicle system or other systems communicatively coupled to a CAN bus. The processor may include one or more processors and may comprise for example a microcontroller or digital signal processor. The ECU may be operable to perform analog to digital conversion and or digital to analog conversion in the ADC DAC units . In some exemplary systems one or more of the processor the memory the I O interfaces and or the ADC DAC units may include separate integrated circuits. In other exemplary systems a microcontroller on an integrated circuit in the ECU may include one or more of the processor memory and one or more peripherals such as the I O interfaces and ADC DAC units . The memory may include RAM and or ROM memory. The I O interfaces may include a serial connection to the CAN bus wireless network interfaces wired network interfaces and in some systems may include separate audio and or display interfaces.

In operation the ECU may comprise a hands free module that may be operable to communicate via the CAN bus with other ECUs in a vehicle. For example the hands free ECU may control or operate as part of one or more information and or entertainment systems in the vehicle. The ECU may accept audible voice commands from a user via a microphone and an audio in port in the I O interfaces . The ECU may process and or reorganize the voice command and may compare it against a programmed voice command grammar. The ECU may initiate or control functions of the hands free module or of other systems or subsystems that are part of the vehicle system or communicatively coupled to a system within the vehicle based on the command. Exemplary systems or subsystems may include a radio a navigation system a mobile phone an emergency warning system wireless safety communication automatic driving assistance or other telematics. One or more of the systems or subsystems may have a corresponding display screen that may provide information and or may provide a menu or indicate a choice of actions that a user may control with a voice command via the hands free ECU . For example a radio screen shown in may indicate a station or programming that is being received and station choices that a user may select with a voice command.

The hands free ECU may be communicatively coupled via the I O interfaces to for example a display screen a microphone system a speaker system or other types of sensors. In instances when the hands free ECU receives a voice command the ECU may perform voice reorganization of the voice data and may process the command against a configured list of voice commands. The command may correspond to an action to be taken or activation of a system. The ECU may communicate via the interface on the CAN bus based on the received command. The action to be taken may initiate a change in a display screen and the ECU may transmit a message via the CAN bus that corresponds to the change in display screen. For example a radio station may be actively playing over a speaker system in the vehicle and a display screen in the vehicle may provide radio station and or programming information shown in . The ECU may receive a voice command such as navigation or map and may communicate via the CAN bus indicating a change in display from the radio screen to a navigation screen. Similarly the hands free module may be communicatively coupled with a mobile phone for example via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth connection in the I O interfaces . A user may be listening to the radio and may give a voice command to make a phone call. The ECU may communicate via the CAN bus indicating that a display screen in the vehicle may change to a mobile phone screen and or corresponding command menus. In another embodiment the hands free module may communicate with other systems via the CAN bus for example air conditioning wiper or light systems. In this regard the hands free module may receive an audible voice command for turning on or adjusting the air conditioning. The hands free module may process the command and send a message to the display via the CAN bus to change the display with respect to air conditioning controls. Moreover the hands free module may send a message to the body control ECU via the CAN bus to activate or adjust the air conditioning in accordance with the voice command.

The testing system may be communicatively coupled with a hands free ECU and a CAN bus which are described with respect to . The hands free ECU and the CAN bus may be tested outside of a vehicular system for example in a lab environment or a manufacturing test environment. The hands free ECU may be tested to ensure that it activates properly and responds correctly to voice commands. The voice commands may be issued to the hands free ECU in a variety of languages and accents. Also volume and speed may vary in delivery of the voice commands during the testing procedure.

Simulated voice commands may be communicated to the hands free ECU via a microphone . In a vehicular system the microphone may be installed in any suitable location such that a user may enter voice commands for the hands free module ECU system. For example the microphone may be installed in a rearview mirror a dashboard unit or a steering wheel unit. The microphone may be connected to the ECU via an audio port to deliver audio signals including the voice commands.

The hands free ECU may be attached to the CAN bus and may communicate with the display ECU via the CAN bus . For example the hands free ECU may receive voice commands to perform a specified action such as change a radio station activate a navigation system find a driving route or make a phone call and as a result the hands free ECU may communicate via the CAN bus to the display ECU to change the image presented on the display screen . In instances when the display screen is changed the display ECU may communicate screen ID changes to the hands free ECU via the CAN bus to indicate which screen is being displayed. The screen ID changes communicated from the display ECU to the hands free ECU may be logged by the automated testing tool to determine whether the hands free ECU is functioning correctly. The voice command may also trigger a change in the source of information communicated to the display screen . For example the source may be a radio a navigation system a mobile phone various telematics or any suitable device or system communicatively coupled to the hands free system and display . In instances when the hands free ECU does not recognize a voice command it may inform the display ECU so that the display may indicate to a user that the voice command was not recognized.

In some systems the hands free module ECU may be wired to the display unit via VGA and or LVDS wiring. An audio output port of the hands free ECU may be coupled to an audio input and or external speakers of the display . Moreover the ECU may share a power supply with the display .

The hands free ECU may be communicatively coupled to the mobile phone for example via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth connection in the I O Interfaces . In this regard the hands free ECU under test may be operable to control operation of the mobile phone via the wireless connection based on simulated test voice commands received from the automated testing tool via the microphone . The hands free ECU may be operable to signal the mobile phone to initiate a phone call or send a message to a specified phone number based on a test voice commands. Moreover in instances when the mobile phone receives a phone call or message from another phone such as the test phone a simulated voice command may answer the call via the hands free module. The mobile phone may communicate with the hands free ECU via an interface of the I O interfaces . The hands free ECU may communicate screen ID changes to the display ECU via the CAN bus so that information from the mobile phone may be displayed on the display screen . In this manner any information that may be displayed on the mobile phone may be displayed on the hands free module display . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 829 949 filed on same date herewith provides additional information regarding Bluetooth technology that may be utilized in the hands free ECU and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Also action requests that may be input to the mobile phone such as making a call playing audio and or video or texting for example may be sent to the mobile phone by inputting a voice command to the hands free module via the microphone .

The test computer is described with respect to and may be for example in one embodiment a general purpose computer or in another embodiment a specially programmed piece of test equipment. The test computer may be communicatively coupled with the speaker or may comprise an integrated speaker that may produce test voice commands that are picked up by the microphone to test the hands free module ECU . The test computer may be referred to as the computer system .

The test computer may send and receive information to the hands free ECU via the CAN message simulator and the CAN bus . The CAN bus message simulator may be referred to as a CAN bus message converter a CAN bus analyzer or a CAN bus message processor for example. The test computer may be communicatively coupled with the CAN message simulator via any suitable interface and cable such as an Ethernet cable USB cable or RS232 for example. Furthermore any suitable CAN message simulator may be utilized in the test system . For example a Vehicle Spy system from Intrepid Control Systems or a CANoe or a CANlyzer system from Vector may be utilized as the CAN message simulator however the system is not limited in this regard. Based on a command from the automated testing tool the CAN message simulator may simulate an activation signal to the hands free ECU that may enable a voice session and the automated voice testing. This may be similar to an in vehicle system where for example a steering wheel may include a hands free module activation button. When a user depresses the button a hands free system activation signal from the steering ECU to the hands free ECU may be sent via the CAN bus and the hands free system may begin to accept voice commands and or may enable voice reorganization in the hands free ECU . The hands free ECU may send a change screen ID message via the CAN bus to the display ECU and the display screen may be changed to indicate that the voice session is enabled. The sending of a change screen IDs from the hands free module ECU via the CAN bus may be logged utilized to test operations of the hands free module ECU .

The CAN message simulator may also be operable to receive or trap communication transmitted over the CAN bus . In this regard messages sent to and or received by the hands free ECU over the CAN bus may be captured converted in format and or analyzed by the CAN message simulator and forwarded to the test computer in a format appropriate format for the test computer and or the automated test system .

The test computer may be operable to store and execute the automated voice based testing tool to test operations of the hands free module ECU and CAN messages sent via the CAN bus . The automated voice based testing tool may be developed in a Labwindows CVI development environment for example. The automated voice based testing tool may call one or more Microsoft speech application interfaces API and or other API s to generate speech by a text to speech engine. The generated speech may be communicated from the test computer via the speaker to the microphone and then to the audio port in the interface of the hands free ECU . The generated speech may be synthesized according to a specified language a pronunciation of words and phrases and other features of speech such as emphasis and intonation or pitch. The generated speech may be consistent with an intended demographic which may use the hands free module . These qualities of the speech may be indicated to the voice based testing tool by text in a test input file.

The automated voice based testing tool may simulate a voice session with the hands free module ECU by utilizing text input to generate a desired voice command. A text file for example a Microsoft Excel file may be utilized to input one or more of steps for testing the hands free module ECU input parameters such as words and phrases expected output parameters such as CAN bus messages and criteria for evaluating test results. The input parameters may include voice commands that may be communicated via one or more of the speaker the microphone and the CAN bus to the hands free ECU . After receiving the simulated voice commands the hands free ECU may communicate with the display ECU and or the display via the CAN bus to perform an action indicated by the simulated voice command.

The test computer may be communicatively coupled with the test mobile phone . In some systems the test computer may communicate with the test mobile phone via a USB port using AT commands or may use a wireless connection. The automated voice based testing tool may be operable to initiate a call by the test mobile phone to the mobile phone and may be operable to answer or receive calls in the test mobile phone from the mobile phone . For example the automated voice based testing tool may send a simulated voice command via the speaker and microphone to the hands free ECU to initiate a phone call from the mobile phone to the test mobile phone . The simulated voice command may trigger messages from the ECU via the CAN bus which may change the display screen to indicate that a call is being made to a specified phone number. These CAN bus messages may be captured by the CAN message simulator and may be sent to the automated voice based testing tool in the test computer . The automated voice based testing tool may communicate using AT commands with the test mobile phone to answer the phone call and or retrieve information that verifies that the phone call was successfully made from the mobile phone .

The automated voice based testing tool may utilize AT commands to initiate a call or message from the test mobile phone to the mobile phone and in some systems may answer the call by sending a simulated voice message via the speaker the microphone and the hands free module ECU . The hands free ECU may communicate with the mobile phone via for example a Bluetooth connection to answer the call based on the voice command. The hands free ECU may communicate with the display ECU and or the display screen via the CAN bus so that the screen may display the incoming call and or the progression of the phone call. The CAN bus messages may be captured by the CAN message simulator and reported to the automated voice based testing tool which may determine success or failure of the call. The automated voice based testing tool may also utilize communication to and or from the test phone to determine success and or failure of communication between the test mobile phone and the mobile phone .

The automated voice based testing tool may generate test results data in the test results and log output file . The test results may be based on messages communicated over the CAN bus as a result of the simulated voice command and captured by the CAN message simulator . In this regard the CAN message simulator may capture the messages communicated by the hands free ECU via the CAN bus and may process and or forward the messages to the test computer . The automated voice based testing tool may utilize the CAN bus messages to validate that the simulated voice commands have been successfully recognized by the hands free module ECU . For example the automated voice based testing tool may extract a screen ID that was captured by the CAN message simulator and compare it to an expected screen ID based on information received in a test input file and or a corresponding simulated voice command.

An exemplary test result and log output file may comprise a Microsoft Excel file. The test result and log output file may include an input parameter an expected output parameter an observed parameter a verdict such as test pass or fail information and or remarks. Moreover the test result and log output file may include detailed logs of the simulated voice commands communicated to the hands free ECU CAN message traffic captured by the CAN message simulator and or debugger logs.

In operation the automated voice based testing tool may automate steps to test the hands free module ECU . Test steps and input parameters may be entered into an Excel test input file. The automated voice based testing tool may be operable to automatically read the test input file and execute the test steps using the input parameters. The automated voice based testing tool may send a message to the CAN message simulator to activate a voice session with a hands free module ECU via the CAN bus . Simulated voice commands which may be of a specified language a specified accent or pronunciation a specified rate and or a specified volume may be communicated from the test PC to the hands free ECU via the speaker and the microphone by the automated voice based testing tool . The hands free module ECU may understand the simulated audible voice commands and may communicate a screen change message to the display ECU over the CAN bus based on the command. Once the display performs an action on the display screen for example displaying a new radio channel the display ECU may send a CAN message to the hands free ECU to indicate which screen ID corresponds to the displayed image. The automated voice based testing tool may receive parse analyze and or verify the CAN messages for the screen changes sent via the CAN message simulator . The automated voice based testing tool may be operable to simulate mobile phone calls and or messages by placing and or receiving phone calls or messages using voice commands to the hands free ECU and placing and or receiving phone calls using AT commands to the test mobile phone . The automated voice based testing tool may automatically generate a test report that indicates success and or failure of the hands free ECU operations based on the captured CAN bus messages and communication with the test phone .

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device or any other machine capable of executing the automated voice based testing tool logic that specifies actions to be taken by that machine. The computer system may comprise electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. The system implementation may be a single computer system or may include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any of the processing for the automated voice based testing tool and communications noted above.

The computer system may include a processor for example a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. A processor may be implemented as a controller microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Moreover the computer system may include a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but may not be limited to internal and or external computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one case the memory may include a cache or random access memory for the processor . Alternatively or in addition the memory may be separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory.

The computer system may further include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and or a cursor control device such as a mouse or any other suitable input device. The computer system may also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a one or more interfaces devices . The one or more interface devices may include any suitable type of interface for wireless wire line or optical communication between the computer system and another device or network. For example the computer system may be communicatively coupled with the mobile phone the CAN message simulator the speaker and or a network via the one or more interface devices .

The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions for example software may be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods and or logic as described herein for the automated voice based testing tool . In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The memory and or the processor also may include computer readable media.

In general the automated voice based testing tool logic and processing described above may be encoded and or stored in a machine readable or computer readable medium such as a compact disc read only memory CDROM magnetic or optical disk flash memory random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or other machine readable medium as for examples instructions for execution by a processor controller or other processing device. The medium may be implemented as any device or tangible component that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions that perform the processing described above or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The system may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. Memories may be Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instructions may be parts of a single program separate programs implemented in libraries such as Dynamic Link Libraries DLLs or distributed across several memories processors cards and systems.

In step the automated voice based testing tool may initiate several test modes such as audible voice commands and calls to or from a mobile phone. In instances when the automated voice based testing tool tests various voice commands such as but not limited to for example play radio call 911 find Route 5 or turn on lights the exemplary steps may proceed to step . In step the automated voice based testing tool may generate an audible command via the speaker to the microphone and the hands free module ECU . The automated voice based testing tool may log one or more corresponding CAN bus messages. The corresponding CAN bus messages may be generated by the hands free module ECU as a result of receiving a command and may be sent to the test computer via the CAN message simulator . In some embodiments the CAN message simulator may create a log file and may forward the log file to the test computer .

In step the automated voice based testing tool may compare observed values from the received CAN bus messages or from the test phone to expected values read from the test plan and parameters file . In step the automated voice based testing tool may determine whether the hands free module ECU generated appropriate CAN bus messages relative to commands that were generated by the automated voice based testing tool and may determine one or more test pass or fail verdicts. In step the automated voice based testing tool may write the one or more test pass or fail verdicts and or the logged CAN bus messages to the test results and logs output file . The exemplary steps may end at step .

In step in instances when the automated voice based testing tool initiates a call in the mobile phone to the test phone the exemplary steps may proceed to step . In step the automated voice based testing tool may generate an audible voice command via the speaker to the microphone and hands free module ECU to make a phone call or send a message to the test phone . The voice command may include a phone number or recipient name for example. The automated voice based testing tool may log one or more corresponding CAN bus messages that may be generated by the hands free module ECU and received via the CAN message simulator as a result of the voice command. In step in some systems the automated voice based testing tool may communicate with the test phone utilizing AT commands and may instruct the test phone to answer the incoming call from the mobile phone . The automated voice based testing tool may receive and log CAN bus messages as a result of answering the phone call. In step the automated voice based testing tool may receive information from the test phone as a result receiving and or answering the call. The exemplary steps may proceed to step .

In step in instances when the automated voice based testing tool initiates a call in the test phone to the mobile phone the exemplary steps may proceed to step . In step the automated voice based testing tool may send an AT command to the test phone to make a phone call or send a message to the hands free mobile phone . The automated voice based testing tool may log one or more corresponding CAN bus messages that may be generated by the hands free module ECU and received via the CAN message simulator as a result of the phone call received at the hands free mobile phone . In step in some systems the automated voice based testing tool may generate an audible voice command to answer the incoming call at the mobile phone . The automated voice based testing tool may receive and log CAN bus messages as a result of the voice command to answer the phone call. In step the automated voice based testing tool may receive information from the test phone as a result of initiating the phone call and or as a result of the phone call being answered by the mobile phone . The exemplary steps may proceed to step .

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

