---

title: System and method to integrate backup and compliance systems
abstract: A method and system for validating data in a data backup system is provided. The method includes receiving, from a compliance system, compliance and internal standards information. The method includes storing the received compliance and internal standards information. The method includes monitoring one or more events. The method includes collecting data associated with the monitored one or more events. The method includes determining whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and internal standards information. The method includes sending a notification, warning, alert and/or other message with in backup system as well as to compliance system in case of deviation from the compliance and internal standards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09529815&OS=09529815&RS=09529815
owner: Veritas Technologies LLC
number: 09529815
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
Enterprises of varying sizes retain data related to customers and or employees. These organizations typically have to follow state country laws or standards pertaining to data retention RPO Recovery Point Objective RTO Recovery Time Objective privacy and or other laws or standards. While these organizations backup the data according to their internal policies verification that the backup attributes including policies is in compliance with these laws or internal standards is a manual effort. That is the administrator or some other designee must manually check for compliance with the laws standards or regulations governing aspects of the data collection as no mechanism exists to allow the organizations to provide their compliance and internal standard needs as input and to receive a notification in case these needs are unmet.

In some embodiments a method for validating data in a data backup system is provided. The method includes receiving from a compliance system compliance and internal standards information. The method includes storing the received compliance and internal standards information. The method includes monitoring one or more events. The method includes collecting data associated with the monitored one or more events. The method includes determining whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and internal standards information. The method includes sending a notification warning alert and or other message with in backup system as well as to compliance system in case of deviation from the compliance and internal standards.

In some embodiments a data backup system is provided. The data backup system includes a backup server coupled to a memory the memory configured to store compliance and internal standards information received from a compliance system. The backup server includes a data validator that is configured to monitor one or more events collect data associated with the monitored one or more events and determine whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and internal standards information. In some embodiments the data validator is configured to send a notification warning alert and or other message within the backup system to the compliance system in case of deviation from the compliance and internal standards.

In some embodiments a non transient tangible computer readable media having instructions thereupon is provided. The computer readable media when executed by a processor causes the processor to receive from a compliance system compliance and internal standards information store the received compliance and internal standards information monitor one or more events collect data associated with the monitored one or more events and determine whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and internal standards information. In some embodiments the processor is configured to send a notification warning alert and or other message within the backup system to the compliance system in case of deviation from the compliance and internal standards.

Other aspects and advantages of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

A data backup system and related method perform data validation to ensure that compliance needs and or internal standards of an organization are met. The data backup system may receive input regarding compliance and or internal standards from a compliance system and may store the received input. The data backup system may monitor one or more events and may collect data associated with the one or more events. In response to one or more events the data backup system may determine whether the collected data is in compliance with the previously received input from the compliance system. In response to a determination that the collected data deviates from the compliance internal standards the data backup system may provide a notification warning alert and or other message so that an administrator or other designee is made aware of the deviation. Further details including job settings device settings catalog related checks etc. are provided below in the description of the Figures and with reference to the examples discussed herein.

Backup server may include a processor memory a data validator and or other components that facilitate the functions of backup server data validator . In some implementations processor includes one or more processors hardware processors configured to perform various functions of backup server . In some implementations memory includes one or more tangible i.e. non transitory computer readable media. Memory may include one or more instructions that when executed by processor may configure processor to perform functions of backup server . In some implementations memory may include one or more instructions stored on tangible computer readable media that when executed at a remote device such as compliance system may cause the remote device to perform various functions of the remote device described herein and to facilitate interaction with backup server as described herein. It should be appreciated that backup server may be embodied as software or firmware e.g. a combination of software and hardware. In some embodiments the software may any of the commercially available products available from the assignee such as NETBACKUP BACKUP EXEC etc. or products from other solution providers such as COMMVAULT .

Compliance system is configured to communicate to backup server any compliance and or internal standards for an organization. Backup server may receive and store the compliance and or internal standards received from compliance system in memory or storage device s . In some implementations storage device s may include a database such as a relational database a filesystem and or other device or data representation configured for data storage. In some implementations compliance system and backup server may be installed and configured at a client site. Compliance system may be embodied as software or firmware e.g. a combination of software and hardware. In some embodiments the compliance systems are commercially available systems or customized solutions. Commercially available systems may address compliance with federal or state legislation such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or regulatory rules or standards from agencies such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Agency Federal Drug Administration etc. Customizable systems may be configured to address compliance with federal or state legislation regulatory agencies or internal organization standards. In some embodiments compliance system may be provided under a software as a service SaaS model which may be referred to Compliance as a Service CaaS . Compliance system may be dedicated to a single organization or customer in some embodiments. In alternative embodiments compliance system may serve multiple customers and is not limited to a single customer. In some implementations the manufacturer of compliance system is different from and or independent of the manufacturer of backup server . However this is not meant to be limiting as compliance system and backup server may be from the same manufacturer in other embodiments.

In some implementations backup server may provide a well defined format or interface based on which backup server may communicate with compliance system for example connect to compliance system receive input from the compliance system and provide output to the compliance system . In some implementations backup server may utilize webservice format XML format and or other formats interfaces such as public APIs application programming interfaces to communicate with compliance system . In one implementation backup server e.g. the backup software application provides a format interface to allow communication with compliance system . In a further implementation this format interface is an API. This format interface allows the compliance system to communicate policies requirements and the like directly with the backup system. It should be appreciated that data validator may be a stand alone appliance module that is in communication with backup server . In addition while one backup server is illustrated in there may be multiple backup servers with each backup server including data validator . In another embodiment when data validator is a stand alone appliance module the data validator can communicate with a single backup server or multiple backup servers.

In some implementations a webservice or public method such as XML may be exposed via backup server indicating the manner or format in which the backup server expects data from or provides data to compliance system . Compliance system may invoke call an appropriate method of the webservice to provide input i.e. compliance and or internal standards to the backup server . Similarly backup server may invoke an appropriate method to receive input from compliance system . Also compliance system may invoke an appropriate method of the webservice to receive output from the backup server and backup server may invoke an appropriate method to provide output to compliance system . Examples of methods may include push method get method and or other methods.

In some implementations the compliance standards may include standards pertaining to backup or restore data retention for example retention period RPO Recovery Point Objective RTO Recovery Time Objective and or other compliance standards. For example the compliance standard pertaining to backup or restore may indicate the backup frequency at which backup is to be performed a number of policies for which backup is to be performed for example a compliance standard may indicate that no client backup be performed for more than x policies . The compliance standard pertaining to data retention may indicate a retention period for a policy the retention period is 7 years for example . The compliance standard pertaining to RPO may indicate that the desired RPO is 2 hours for example. The compliance standard pertaining to RTO may indicate that the desired RTO is 4 hours for example.

The internal standards may include standards pertaining to policy or storage naming encryption privacy for example login access catalog size jobs running on system and or other internal standards. For example the internal standard pertaining to policy or storage naming may indicate a particular format in which the policy or storage device is to be named. In some embodiments the internal standards for backup system entities such as a policy naming standard. The internal standard pertaining to encryption may indicate whether data encryption while backing up data is required at all times or for a specific client policy type etc. The internal standard pertaining to privacy may indicate that when unsuccessful login attempts are to be reported i.e. provided as output to compliance system and also the parameters such as user id client id timestamp to be reported. For example unsuccessful login attempts are to be reported if login access fails more than x times in x amount of time. The internal standard pertaining to catalog size may indicate when a particular catalog size is to be reported for example when the catalog size reaches x of disk space . The internal standard pertaining to jobs running may indicate when a number and type of jobs running is to be reported for example when jobs are running for more than x amount of time . In some embodiments backup server may store the compliance internal standards information in memory or storage device . Backup server may create a table and store the compliance internal standards information in the table.

In some implementations system administrators or other authorized users may interact with the backup server via an administrator or management console depicted in for example . In some implementations backup server may be configured to generate a graphical user interface for the management console . Users may perform various activities such as for example perform backup restore by selecting element configure storage devices by selecting element configure catalog backup by selecting element create backup policies by selecting element and or other activities. While depicts elements as graphical buttons which may be selected by user other forms of graphical elements or icons may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

Returning to backup server may monitor one or more events or activities being performed or occurring on the backup server . The events activities may include user events hardware or system events and or other types of events. For example the events activities may include performing backup or restore creating saving a policy logging in to particular backup product receiving catalog size indication receiving an indication of an amount of time a job is running via a timer device for example and or other events activities.

In some implementations backup server may collect data associated with the events activities and provide the collected data to data validator . For example when performing backup or restore backup server may collect data such as client id for which the backup is performed a current policy count indicating the number of policies for which the backup has already been performed current frequency of backup and or other data. When creating saving a particular policy for example a particular backup policy backup server may collect data such as the format in which the policy being created has been named whether encryption has been enabled for this policy whether duplication has been enabled for this policy parameters for performing backup and or other data. When logging in to a particular backup product installed on backup server for example backup server may collect data such as user id of the user performing the login access system client id a number of times the user has tried to log in within a particular timeframe and or other data. When receiving a catalog size indication backup server may collect data such as current catalog size and or other data. When receiving an indication of an amount of time a job is running backup server may collect the current amount of time that a particular job is running.

Data validator may determine whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and or internal standards data received from the compliance system . Data validator may make this determination by analyzing and or comparing the collected data and the previously stored compliance and or internal standard information. In some implementations data validator may retrieve compliance and or internal standard information from the memory or storage device that stores the compliance and or internal standard information. In some implementations data validator may query a database storage device that stores the compliance and or internal standard information. The lookup may be a structured query language SQL query lightweight directory access protocol LDAP query and or any other known methods of querying the database.

In response to a determination that the collected data deviates from the compliance and or internal standards data backup server may provide feedback to the user in the form of a notification warning alert and or other message to the user via the console for example . In some implementations backup server may report the feedback result such as compliant or not compliant the standard s for which data is not in compliance or other associated data to compliance system by invoking the appropriate method for example .

In a first example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that the desired retention period i.e. compliance standard for a policy is 7 years. Thus for 7 years whenever a policy gets created on disk it has to be duplicated on tape to be in compliance. Now when a user tries to create and or save a backup or restore policy data validator may determine based on collected data associated with the creating saving policy for example whether the user is trying to save the policy without duplication on tape. If the user is trying to save the policy without duplication backup server may determine that the collected data deviates from the desired retention period standard and hence is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards data. Accordingly backup server may warn the user that creating saving such a policy does not meet with the compliance standards and may provide a solution which may result in compliance. For example backup server may prompt the user to enable duplication of policy which will result in compliance of the retention period standard.

In a second example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that the desired RTO is 4 hours. Now when a user tries to create and or save a backup or restore policy data validator may determine that the user is backing up in a manner that does not allow an RTO of 4 hours. Thus backup server may make a determination that the collected data i.e. data collected for create save policy event deviates from the desired RTO and hence deviates from the compliance and or internal standards data. Accordingly backup server may warn the user that creating saving such a policy does not meet with the compliance standards and may provide a backup solution which may result in compliance. For example backup server may provide an alternate different backup policy which will result in compliance with the RTO standard. In some implementations the backup server may analyze the backup restore system environment of the client for example types of storage devices used number of storage devices etc. and may configure or generate the alternate backup policy that complies with the RTO standard while taking the client environment into account.

In a third example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that the policy be named in a particular format such as for example the policy name should be in the format hostname client name policy name . Now when a user tries to create and or save a policy data validator may determine that the user is trying save a policy which is not named correctly. Thus backup server may make a determination that the collected data i.e. data collected for create save policy event deviates from the desired name format and hence is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards data. Accordingly backup server may warn the user that creating saving such a policy does not meet with the compliance standards and may provide a message to the user indicating displaying the desired format such that the user may name the policy in the desired format which would result in compliance . In some implementations backup server may auto populate based on the standard so that when creating the policy the user automatically creates it in the desired format.

In a fourth example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that encryption is required when backing up data at all times or for a specific client or policy type. Now when a user tries to perform backup or create a policy for performing backup data validator may determine that the user is trying to perform the backup for the specific client or policy type but without encryption. Thus backup server may make a determination that the collected data i.e. data collected for performing backup event deviates from the desired encryption requirement and hence is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards data. Accordingly backup server may warn the user that performing such backup does not meet with the compliance standards and may provide a message to the user indicating that encryption needs to be enabled for backup which would result in compliance . In some implementations backup server may prompt the user to enable encryption or in some cases may allow the user to make a decision regarding whether the user wants to encrypt or not . In some implementations backup server may automatically encrypt without prompting the user.

In a fifth example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that unsuccessful login attempts for example if login to a particular backup product fails more than 2 times in 1 minute be reported to the user and the compliance system . Now when a user tries to login data validator may determine whether the user has failed to login twice in a 1 minute time frame. If so backup server may determine that collected data i.e. data collected for login event deviates from the privacy standard i.e. is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards information . Accordingly backup server may warn the user that 2 attempts have already been made. In some implementations backup server may report the user id the client id and login times i.e. timestamps to the compliance system .

In a sixth example backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that catalog size not to increase beyond 80 of disk space and the catalog size be reported to the user and the compliance system if it does. Now as the catalog size keeps on growing backup server data validator receives indications regarding changing catalog size. When the catalog size reaches above 80 of disk space for example 90 backup server may determine that collected data i.e. data collected for catalog size event deviates from the standard i.e. is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards information . Accordingly backup server may warn the user that catalog size has increased beyond 80 . In some implementations backup server may report the catalog id and size to the compliance system .

In a seventh example the backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that no backup be performed for more than 100 policies. Now when a user tries to perform backup data validator may determine whether the backup is being performed for policy count . If so the backup server may make a determination that the collected data i.e. data collected for performing backup event deviates from the desired backup requirement and hence is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards data. Accordingly backup server may warn the user that performing such backup does not meet with the compliance standards and may provide a message to the user indicating that no more backups may be performed. In some implementations backup server may prompt the make a decision regarding whether he wants to backup or not .

In an eighth example backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating that no jobs are run for more than 10 hours and that jobs running for more than 10 hours be reported to the user and the compliance system . Now when an indication is received that a particular job has been running for more than 10 hours backup server data validator may determine that collected data i.e. data collected for jobs running event deviates from the standard i.e. is not in compliance with the compliance and or internal standards information . Accordingly backup server may warn the user that a job has been running for more than 10 hours. In some implementations backup server may report the job id and the amount of time the job has been running to the compliance system .

In a ninth example backup server may have previously received an input from the compliance system indicating an error code to be reported to the user and the compliance system . For example in the instance where a backup fails with a storage unit full error an alert and the compliance system can generate a ticket or provide some other mechanism to rectify the issue.

In a tenth example backup server may receive an input from the compliance system for a company or organization specific privacy message to be shown on a login screen or in a pop up window for login. The privacy message may appear in different screens of the graphical user interfaces for the backup software in some embodiments.

The scenarios described above are mere examples and do not limit the types or number of compliance and or internal standards provided to backup server of events activities monitored by backup server messages or solutions provided by backup server and or output reports generated for the compliance system . Further any messages solutions or other feedback provided to the user may be reported to the compliance system without limitation.

It will be appreciated that while and the associated description depicts and describes a data backup system comprising a compliance system and a backup server comprising a data validator the invention in not limited to such a configuration. For example the data backup system may include a plurality of backup servers each including a data validator that communicate with compliance system . In some implementations the data backup system may include a plurality of backup servers each including a data validator that communicate with a plurality of compliance systems from different vendors for example. In yet other implementations the data validator may run on a separate system separate from compliance system and backup server wherein one or more compliance systems and one or more backup servers communicate with one another via the separate system. Other configurations may be also be implemented.

Still referring to in an operation compliance and or internal standards information may be received from compliance system for example . The received compliance and or internal standards information may be stored in an operation . One or more events or activities may be monitored in an operation . Data associated with the monitored events or activities may be collected in an operation . A determination regarding whether the collected data deviates from the compliance and or internal standards information is made in an operation . In some embodiments the data collected in operation is compared to the compliance or internal standards information of operation . Based on this comparison it is determined whether the collected data deviates from the compliance standard. In response to a determination that the collected data does deviate from the compliance and or internal standards information feedback may be provided to the user in the form of a notification warning alert or other message. In some implementations the feedback and or associated data may also be reported back to compliance system .

It should be appreciated that the methods described herein may be performed with a digital processing system such as a conventional general purpose computer system. Special purpose computers which are designed or programmed to perform only one function may be used in the alternative. is an illustration showing an exemplary computing device which may implement the embodiments described herein. The computing device of may be used to perform embodiments of the functionality of the backup server in accordance with some embodiments. The computing device includes a central processing unit CPU which is coupled through a bus to a memory and mass storage device . Mass storage device represents a persistent data storage device such as a floppy disc drive or a fixed disc drive which may be local or remote in some embodiments. Memory may include read only memory random access memory etc. Applications resident on the computing device may be stored on or accessed via a computer readable medium such as memory or mass storage device in some embodiments. Applications may also be in the form of modulated electronic signals modulated accessed via a network modem or other network interface of the computing device. It should be appreciated that CPU may be embodied in a general purpose processor a special purpose processor or a specially programmed logic device in some embodiments.

Display is in communication with CPU memory and mass storage device through bus . Display is configured to display any visualization tools or reports associated with the system described herein. Input output device is coupled to bus in order to communicate information in command selections to CPU . It should be appreciated that data to and from external devices may be communicated through the input output device . CPU can be defined to execute the functionality described herein to enable the functionality described with reference to . The code embodying this functionality may be stored within memory or mass storage device for execution by a processor such as CPU in some embodiments. The operating system on the computing device may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX LINUX or other known operating systems. It should be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be integrated with virtualized computing system also. In addition the embodiments concerning compliance validation and verification presented herein may be integrated with any backup software or solution commercially available.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing embodiments. Embodiments may however be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.

It should be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various steps or calculations these steps or calculations should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one step or calculation from another. For example a first calculation could be termed a second calculation and similarly a second step could be termed a first step without departing from the scope of this disclosure. As used herein the term and or and the symbol includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. Therefore the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments might employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments are useful machine operations. The embodiments also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Embodiments described herein may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices tablets microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other operations may be performed in between described operations described operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or the described operations may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing.

The foregoing description for the purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the embodiments and various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

