---

title: Mobile application analytics
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for taking measurements associated with the execution of an application on one or more client devices. A measurement policy and/or a transmission policy may be defined by a developer with associated with an application. The measurement policy and/or transmission policy may be used by the one or more client devices in taking measurements, aggregating measurements into measurement collections, and/or transmitting measurements. The measurements may be used in the derivation of statistical information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569433&OS=09569433&RS=09569433
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09569433
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130425
---
With the emergence of mobile technology a multitude of devices exist with varying capabilities. Thus an application executing on a particular device may function differently with respect to the same application executing on other devices. Although users of the devices may volunteer improper and or proper execution of the application on their respective device it remains difficult for developers to ascertain information associated with the proper and or improper execution of applications on the multitude of mobile devices.

The present disclosure relates to obtaining measurements associated with the execution of one or more applications in one or more client devices. With the emergence of mobile technology a multitude of devices exist with varying capabilities. Devices may comprise for example cellular phones smartphones tablets laptop computers and or various other types of computing devices. Moreover different models of devices are manufactured and sold under one or more brands. With the range of devices existing with different hardware and or software capabilities an application developed by a developer executing on a particular device may function differently with respect to the same application executing on other devices.

Typically the only feedback provided to a developer is upon a crash of an application wherein the application failed to execute on the device as intended. The crash reports provided to the developer may not be descriptive enough to facilitate a repair of the application. Although users of the devices may volunteer a submission of reports comprising information related to an improper and or proper execution of the application on their respective device it remains difficult for developers to ascertain information associated with the proper and or improper execution of applications on the multitude of mobile devices.

Accordingly taking measurements associated with the execution of an application on one or more devices may facilitate and or improve the performance of applications on the one or more devices by providing developers with information associated with the performance of their applications on various devices. An Application Development Kit ADK may be used by developers that facilitate taking measurements associated with the execution of one or more applications on one or more devices. In the following discussion a general description of a system for taking measurements and its components are provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a graph that may be generated based on statistics derived from the measurements collected on one or more client devices. The measurements may be collected by measuring the performance of one or more applications executing on the one or more client devices. For example the graph may comprise information pertaining to the number of launches i.e. executions for a particular application e.g. Game App 1 in relation to one or more dates.

Similarly a table may comprise statistics and or other information associated to one or more applications a developer might have available for purchase and or download in an electronic commerce system. For example a time of execution may be shown for particular application running on a particular device. The measurements may be collected and or transmitted according to one or more measurement policies and or transmission policies as will be described in greater detail below.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a computing environment and a client device which are in data communication with each other via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that may be employed and that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below. The components executed on the computing environment for example include an electronic commerce system a developer application ADK services storage services queue services and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein.

In various embodiments the components executed on the computing environment may communicate with one or more client devices via an application programming interface API that may be implemented by one or more web services. A web service may comprise for example one or more software systems that facilitate an interaction among servers computing environments client devices and or any other devices. As a non limiting example a web service may comprise one or more APIs accessed over a network via a protocol such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP .

To this end a device may make programmatic service calls e.g. API calls to communicate with or otherwise access the components executed on the computing environment by way of protocols and formats such as representational state transfer REST simple object access protocol SOAP web services description language WSDL web application description language WADL extensible hypertext markup language XHTML extensible markup language XML Rich Site Summary RSS JavaScript Object Notation JSON atom publishing Protocol ATOM and or other protocols and formats. In various embodiments the components of the computing environment may be offered to third parties for example as a platform as a service and or infrastructure as a service in response to a subscription associated with the third party.

The electronic commerce system is executed in order to facilitate the online purchase of applications over the network . The electronic commerce system also performs various backend functions associated with the online presence of a developer in order to facilitate the online purchase and or download of applications as will be described. For example the electronic commerce system generates network pages such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided for the purposes of selecting applications for purchase rental download lease or other form of consumption as will be described.

The developer application is executed to provide one or more user interfaces to developers as an authorized user in order to facilitate receipt of measurement policies and or transmission policies. Furthermore the developer application is executed to provide measurements and or statistics derived from the measurements to the developers. For example the developer application may render one or more user interfaces comprising a request for a measurement policy and or a transmission policy and transmit the request to a device authenticated as the developer.

The ADK services are executed to transmit measurement policies and or transmission policies to one or more client devices . The ADK services may access the measurement policies and or the transmission policies previously provided by a developer of an application to the client devices that have previously downloaded the application. Moreover the ADK services are executed to receive measurements and or measurement collections transmitted by the client device to the computing environment . The functionality of the ADK services may be accessed by one or more devices via an API implemented by one or more web services. To this end the ADK services may be accessed via one or more programmatic service calls e.g. API calls .

The storage services are executed to store the measurement policies and or the transmission policies provided by a developer via the developer application for example in data store . Similarly the storage services are executed to store the measurements and or the measurement collections for example in data store .

In one embodiment a network storage environment is employed in the storage of data. In this embodiment the data stored by the storage services are stored in a network environment comprising one or more data buckets and the data may be retrieved from the buckets via keys unique to the one or more developers. A developer may predefine a set of one or more geographic or logically distinct locations of the buckets to be used in the storage of the data. For example a developer may request that buckets be used in the storage of measurements in a set of availability zones in Singaporean and United States data centers for applications being executed in Singapore or other locations.

The queue services are executed to receive and place data in one or more queues to await processing by the ADK services . The queue services may prevent access to the one or more queues and or the data in the one or more queues from other requesting devices and or services until the data has been processed.

The data stored in the data store includes data associated with for example applications measurement policies transmission policies authentication data unique identifiers devices developers data queues measurements statistics events and potentially other data. Applications may comprise for example applications available for consumption via the electronic commerce system and or capable of execution on one or more client devices . For example applications may comprise mobile applications capable of being executed on smartphones tablets and or personal computers.

Measurement policies may comprise for example definitions of measurements to be measured on one or more client devices . Moreover measurement policies may comprise a configuration that may be used to configure one or more client devices upon receipt of a measurement policy . For example a measurement policy may define that measurements are to be conducted corresponding to the execution of a third party application owned and or maintained by a third party developer. Upon receipt of the measurement policy a client device may be configured to collect measurements defined in the measurement policy . As may be appreciated measurements will be measured in the client device according to the one or more measurement policies defined for example by a developer of the application . Moreover measurement policies may comprise for example how measurements are to be stored locally on a client device .

Similarly transmission policies may comprise for example a set of one or more definitions and or rules that cause an application executing on a client device to provide an indication on how transmissions are to be conducted by the client device . For example a transmission policy may define that measurements are to be aggregated into measurement collections prior to transmission of the measurements and or measurement collections. The transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur in the client device at predefined times. In an alternative embodiment the transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur in the client device upon the occurrence of an event as will be discusses in greater detail below.

Authentication data may comprise for example usernames password biometric data and or any other information that may be used in the authentication of users developers devices and or services in the system. For example in accessing the developer application a developer may be required to be authenticated by requiring the developer to provide a username and or password. Similarly unique identifiers may comprise for example tokens unique to one or more client devices accounts users and or developers that may be used in identification and or authentication. For example a client device may communicate with the one or more services upon authentication of one more tokens identifying and or authenticating the client device .

Devices may comprise information associated with one or more client devices . For example devices may comprise information associated with the manufacturers models hardware capabilities software capabilities operating systems performance metrics and or other information associated with one or more devices.

Developers may comprise information associated with one or more developers of applications offered for consumption on the electronic commerce system and or capable of execution on or more client device . For example certain developers may be associated with certain applications to identify a developer of the application .

Data queues may comprise for example queues of data that may be used by the queue services . For example measurements and or measurement collections collected on a client device may be placed in the one or more queue services to await processing by the ADK services .

Measurements may comprise for example information collected from one or more client devices . The measurements may be collected in association with the performance of one or more applications on the one or more client devices . Measurements may further comprise for example an operating system on which the application is executed the occurrence of system events on the client device a duration of execution a time of execution a flow model representing the execution of the application portions of the application engaged by the user e.g. which part of the screen a user touched on a touch screen smartphone whether the application properly executed whether the application was improperly executed e.g. whether the application crashed on a device a lead of interactions and events conducted prior to a crash the peripheral devices that are executing and the types of information received from peripheral devices the permissions of the application etc. The measurements may be compiled into statistics associated with one or more application one or more client devices and or one or more developers . Thus statistics may comprise derived analytics associated with measurements .

Events may comprise for example events that may be predefined by a developer. Events may be initiated and or triggered upon the identification of a particular measurement . Similarly events may be initiated upon the identification of measurements meeting and or exceeding a predefined threshold.

The client is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a client application . The client application may be executed in a client for example to access network content served up by the computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . To this end the client application may comprise for example a browser a dedicated application such as applications available for download from data store etc. and the user interface may comprise a network page an application screen etc. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond the client application such as for example email applications social networking applications word processors spreadsheets and or other applications.

Moreover the client may comprise for example a client ADK a crash reporter and or system events . A client ADK may comprise for example applications libraries development kits and or portions of applications that may be configured to take measurements based at least in part on measurement policies . The client ADK may be further configured to aggregate measurements into measurement collections. The client ADK may communicate with the network through the client device and or may transmit measurements and or measurement collections to the computing environment . The crash reporter may be configured to identify improper executions of applications . The crash report may identify causes of the improper executions which may be accounted for as measurements taken by the client ADK . System events may be monitored and important and or identifiable events may be measured as measurements . Moreover system events may trigger an initiation of an action in response to the system event . For example a system event may indicate that the client device has access to the network . Upon the indication of the system event a transmission of measurements and or measurement collections may be initiated.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. As may be appreciated a developer may have access to a developer application ADK services and or a client ADK . For example access may be granted to the applications services and or libraries based at least in part on a subscription. The developer may desire to take measurements associated with the execution of an application maintained by the developer.

To begin a client ADK on a client device may be configured to run as a background process wherein the client ADK does not interfere with the performance of the client device and or the performance of client applications executing on the client device . Alternatively the client ADK may be a portion of the client application e.g. a library wherein the client ADK does not interfere with the execution of the client application . A measurement policy and or a transmission policy may be received by the client ADK from the ADK services . For example a developer of an application may have predefined a measurement policy and or a transmission policy via a developer application or via a similar component. A measurement policy may comprise for example precise measurements to be collected by the client ADK . A transmission policy may comprise for example statements that the measurements are to be batched and transmitted at a predefined time or upon the occurrence of predefined system event e.g. upon a client device having access to a high speed network .

The measurements collected by the client ADK may be aggregated into a measurement collection if designated to do so in the transmission policy . For example a transmission policy may state that measurements are to be batched prior to transmission in order to minimize processing time battery consumption transmission time etc. Moreover the client ADK may be configured to encrypt the measurements and or measurement collections according to one or more encryption schemes if defined to do so by the transmission policy .

The measurements and or the measurement collection are transmitted from the client device to the one or more computing environments according to the transmission policy . In one embodiment all of the measurements and or the measurement collections may be transmitted to one computing environment . In an alternative embodiment the measurements and or the measurement collections may be transmitted in a distributed computing configuration. Accordingly the measurements and or the measurement collections may be transmitted to components executing in various computing environments . For example the measurements and or measurement collections may be transmitted from the client device to storage services executing in a first computing environment to queue services executing in a second computing environment and or to ADK services executing in a third computing environment .

The transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur in the client device at predefined times or periodically. In an alternative embodiment the transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur in the client device upon the occurrence of a system event . A system event may comprise for example a client device obtaining access to a high speed network connection e.g. Wi Fi 4G 3G connectivity etc. .

Upon receipt of the measurements and or the measurement collections the measurements and or the measurement collections may be stored in data store by the storage services . The ADK services may access the measurements and or the measurement collections directly from the data store and or by communicating with the storage services . Similarly a queue service may be used in the processing of measurements and or measurement collections. For example the measurements and or the measurement collections may be placed in one or more queues via the queue services to await processing by the ADK services .

The ADK services may process the measurements and or the measurement collections to generate statistics in association with the measurements and or the measurement collections. The statistics the measurements and or the measurement collections may be encoded in one or more user interfaces to be rendered in a display. For example one or more user interfaces may be employed facilitating the viewing and or manipulation of the generated statistics .

Referring next to shown is a client device comprising a cellular telephone executing a client application in communication with an electronic commerce system to facilitate the consumption of one or more applications and . As discussed above with respect to an electronic commerce system may be employed to facilitate the sale purchase and or lease of software applications capable of being executed on client devices . As may be appreciated a developer may upload one or more software applications to the electronic commerce system thereby permitting users of the electronic commerce system to purchase lease and or download the developer s applications . By doing so a user of the client device may access and or execute the application provided by the developer on one or more clients associated with the user.

As shown in the example embodiment of a client application in communication with an electronic commerce system may sale or offer for sale a variety of software applications. Some or all of the software applications available for purchase may be limited to the particular device running the client application . A series of additional user interfaces not shown may be rendered to facilitate the purchase download and or execution of one or more applications on the respective client device .

Although the embodiment of depicts a client device as a mobile phone a client device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants other cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability.

Turning now to shown is a client device comprising a cellular telephone executing a client application . The client application may have been obtained via an electronic commerce system or from another source. As discussed above with respect to a client ADK may execute on a client while not interfering with the execution of other client applications . The client ADK may collect measurements related to the execution of a client application according to a measurement policy defined by a developer of the client application and stored locally on the client device . Subsequently the measurements collected by the client ADK may be transmitted to one or more components over a network according to one or more transmission policies also defined by the developer. In the non limiting example of the measurements collected by the client ADK may be transmitted by the client device to the ADK services executing for example in a computing environment .

Moving on to shown is a diagram illustrating a traditional client server arrangement that may be employed. For example a client may transmit measurements collected by the client ADK to the computing environment over network . As may be appreciated a configuration a payload and or notifications are transmitted over the network. If an interruption illustrated by component occurs none of the measurements may reach the computing environment .

Referring next to shown is an alternative embodiment for a client server arrangement that may be employed in the transmission of measurements to one or more computing environments from one or more client devices . In the non limiting example of a distributed computing arrangement may be employed comprising of computing environments and or . The components executed in the computing environments may be distributed among the computing environments for example at distinct geographic locations. Accordingly the measurements collected in client device may be transmitted among ADK services executing in computing environment storage services executing in computing environment and or queue services executing in computing environment . In the event an interruption were to occur interrupting communication with one of the computing environment it is likely the measurements transmitted by the client device would be received by the other computing environments .

Turning now to shown is an example data structure comprising data associated with one or more measurements collected by the client ADK on a client device . In the non limiting example of a data structure may comprise a JavaScript Object Notation JSON data structure that may be received and or parsed by the computing environment to obtain the measurements residing in the data structure. Transmitting measurements as JSON data structures may have the additional benefit of being human readable and or language independent as may be appreciated.

Although embodied as a JSON data structure in it is understood that other technologies may be employed in communicating measurements from the client device to the one or more computing environments . For example Extensible Markup Language XML Rich Site Summary RSS Atom Publishing Protocol ATOM Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Representational State Transfer REST and or Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML may be used in the communication of measurements from a client device to one or more computing environments .

Moving on to shown is an example data structure comprising data associated with a measurement policy and or a transmission policy that may be defined by a user and transmitted by a computing environment to the client ADK on a client device . In the non limiting example of a data structure may comprise a JSON data structure generated by the ADK services based on definitions made by a user of the developer application . Accordingly a data structure may be encoded capable of communication with the client ADK executing on a client device . As may be appreciated transmitting measurement policies and or transmission policies as JSON data structures may have the additional benefit of being human readable and or language independent.

Upon receipt of a measurement policy and or a transmission policy the client ADK may collect measurements from predefined applications according to the received measurement policy . The measurements collected by the client ADK may be transmitted according to the received transmission policy . For example the measurements may be batched and transmitted to the computing environment at a predefined time or upon an occurrence of a predefined system event e.g. upon detection of access to a high speed network .

Although embodied as a JSON data structure in it is understood that other technologies may be employed in communicating measurement policies and or transmission policies from the computing environment to the one or more client devices . For example XML RSS ATOM SOAP REST and or XHTML may be used in the communication of measurement policies and or transmission policies from a computing environment to one or more client devices .

Referring next to shown is an example user interface that may be encoded by the developer application and rendered in a display . In the non limiting example of shown is a developer dashboard that may facilitate the viewing and or manipulation of statistics generated from measurements collected from one or more client devices . As may be appreciated viewing of statistics and or measurements may require an authenticated session wherein a developer may be required to input authentication data in order to access the developer dashboard.

The user interface of may comprise for example a graph that may be generated based on the statistics derived from the measurements collected on one or more client devices . For example a graph may comprise information pertaining to the number of launches i.e. executions for a particular application corresponding to one or more dates.

Similarly a table may comprise statistics and or other information associated to one or more applications a developer might have available for purchase and or download in an electronic commerce system . For example a time of execution may be shown for particular application running on a particular device . An add statistics component may be used to facilitate the modification of the user interface to add various other statistics to the user interface . For example by engaging the add statistics component a series of additional user interfaces may be presented facilitating the addition of statistics and or measurements to the user interface .

Moreover the user interface of may be used in facilitating the modification of measurement policies and or transmission configurations. For example by engaging the modify measurement configurations component a series of additional user interfaces may be presented facilitating the modification of one or more measurement policies . Each measurement policy may correspond to one or more of the application controlled by the developer or a universal measurement policy may be used in associated with all the applications controlled by a developer. Similarly by engaging the modify transmission configurations component a series of additional user interfaces may be presented facilitating the modification of one or more transmission policies wherein each transmission policy may correspond to one or more of the application controlled by the developer or a universal transmission policy may be used in associated with all the applications controlled by a developer. A save component may be engaged by the developer to save a current state of the user interface although the current state of the user interface may be saved automatically by the developer application .

Turning now to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the client ADK according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the client ADK as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

As may be appreciated a client device may comprise a client ADK executing on the client device . The client ADK may be configured to run as a background process wherein the client ADK does not interfere with the performance of the client device and or the performance of client applications executing on the client device . Alternatively the client ADK may be a portion of the client application wherein the client ADK does not interfere with the execution of the client application . Beginning with box a measurement policy defined by a developer via a developer interface may be received by the client ADK . For example a developer of an application may have predefined a measurement policy via a developer application a web service call or a similar component. The measurement policy may comprise for example precise measurements to be collected by the client ADK performance at predefined times or upon the occurrence of predefined system events .

Similarly in box the client ADK receives a transmission policy . As a non limiting example a developer of an application may have predefined a transmission policy via a developer interface. For example a developer interface may be a developer application a web service call or a similar component that may be employed to communicate with the components of the computing environment . The transmission policy may comprise for example how the measurements collected by the client ADK are to be transmitted to the one or more computing environments . For example a transmission policy may define that the measurements are to be batched and transmitted at a predefined time or upon the occurrence of predefined event e.g. upon a client device having access to a high speed network . In various embodiments the measurement policy and the transmission policy may be received by the client device periodically. For example a developer may periodically and or dynamically update the measurement policy and the transmission policy . Further the developer may specify when a measurement policy and or a transmission policy is to be sent from the computing environment to a client device according to a time or an interval predefined by the developer. By receiving the measurement policy and the transmission policy periodically the client device may be configured or reconfigured to collect and or transmit measurements according to an updated measurement policy and or an updated transmission policy .

In box the measurement policy may be used to configure the client device . In one embodiment a client device may comprise one or more configuration files in a data store in communication with the client device . The configuration files may be modified to instruct the client device or an application executable on the client device to collect measurements associated with the execution of one or more applications . In another embodiment a client ADK on a client device may be configured according to the measurement policy to collect measurements associated with the execution of a particular application associated with the client ADK . For example a client ADK may comprise libraries development kits and or portions of an application . Accordingly the client ADK may be configured to take measurements of the application according to the measurement policies received by the client device .

In box the measurements defined in the measurement policy are collected based at least in part on the measurement policy . Next in box the measurements collected may be stored locally on the client device in memory accessible to the client device . In one embodiment the measurements may be stored according to definitions included in the measurement policy . In an alternative embodiment a storage policy may be defined by a user transmitted to the client device from the computing environment and or used to store the measurements according to the storage policy. In yet an alternative embodiment the measurements may be encrypted locally on the client device prior to or after storage of the measurements on the client device according to one or more encryption schemes provided in the measurement policy .

In box the measurements collected by the client ADK are aggregated into a measurement collection if designated to do so in the transmission policy . For example a transmission policy may state that measurements are to be batched prior to transmission in order to minimize processing time battery consumption transmission time etc. Moreover a transmission policy may request encryption of the measurements according to one or more encryption schemes to be conducted in the client device .

In box the measurement collection or measurement if not aggregated are transmitted according to the transmission policy . For example the transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur at predefined times. In an alternative embodiment the transmission policy may state that transmissions of measurements are to occur upon the occurrence of a system event . For example the transmission policy may state that a transmission is to be made when a network connection made between the computing device and a network data service provider. As a non limiting example a system event comprises for example a client device obtaining access to a high speed network connection e.g. Wi Fi 4G 3G connectivity etc. . Similarly the transmission policy may state that a transmission is to be made when a battery profile associated with a battery powering the client device is at a particular state e.g. when the battery level is above a predefined threshold .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the ADK services according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the ADK services as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box a measurement policy is accessed from a data store . Similarly in box a transmission policy may be accessed from the data store . As discussed above with respect to a measurement policy and or a transmission policy may have been predefined by a developer and stored in data store .

In box the measurement policy and or the transmission policy is transmitted to one or more client devices . As discussed above with respect to a client ADK may receive the measurement policy and or the transmission policy . Accordingly the client ADK may obtain measurements during the execution of a client application executing on the client device according to the measurement policy . The client ADK may aggregate and or batch the measurements into a measurement collection. Subsequently the client ADK may initiate transmission of the measurement collection according to the transmission policy . Thus in box the ADK service executing in a computing environment may await receipt of measurements and or measurement collections from a client device .

In box the measurements and or the measurement collections may be received from the client device by the ADK services .

Subsequently in box any events associated with the measurements may be initiated. For example if the measurements identify a number of application errors meeting and or exceeding a threshold an event predefined may be initiated. An event may comprise for example transmitting a notification to the developer of the identified measurements . Next in box the measurements and or the measurement collections may be stored for example in data store . In box statistics may be generated in association with the measurements and or the measurement collections.

In box the statistics the measurements and or the measurement collections may be encoded in one or more user interfaces . For example a developer dashboard as discussed in may be employed facilitating the viewing and or manipulation of the generated statistics and or the measurements . In box the user interface may be transmitted to a device for display.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment includes one or more computing devices. Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device environment may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the electronic commerce system the developer application the ADK service the storage service the queue services and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the electronic commerce system the developer application the ADK service the storage service the queue services and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the ADK services . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the electronic commerce system the developer application the ADK service the storage service the queue services that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

