---

title: Organ arrest, protection and preservation
abstract: The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes effective amounts of (i) a potassium channel opener or agonist and/or an adenosine receptor agonist and (ii) a local anaesthetic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320753&OS=09320753&RS=09320753
owner: Hibernation Therapeutics, A KF LLC
number: 09320753
owner_city: Camden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 788 864 filed May 27 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 874 000 filed on Aug. 13 2009 allowed which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 11 790 216 filed on Apr. 24 2007 abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 11 046 866 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 413 filed on Feb. 1 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 937 181 filed Jan. 10 2002 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 955 814 which is a U.S. National Phase of International Application No. PCT AU00 00226 International filing date of Mar. 23 2000 and which claims priority to Australian Application No. PP9414 filed on Mar. 23 1999 and Australian Application No. PQ4199 filed on Nov. 23 1999 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a method and pharmaceutical or veterinary composition for arresting protecting and or preserving organs in particular the heart during open heart surgery cardiovascular diagnosis or therapeutic intervention.

There are over 20 000 open heart surgery operations each year in Australia over 800 000 in the United States and about 1 000 000 in Europe. Of those requiring open heart surgery about 1.2 are neonates infants primarily as a consequence of congenital heart disease.

The heart may be arrested for up to 3 hours during open heart surgery. High potassium cardioplegia in excess of 15 20 mM has been the basis of myocardial arrest and protection for over 40 years. Currently the majority of solutions used contain high potassium including the widely used St Thomas No. 2 Hospital Solution which generally contains 110 mM NaCl 16 mM KCl 16 mM MgCl 1.2 mM CaCland 10 mM NaHCOand has a pH of about 7.8. High potassium solutions usually lead to a membrane depolarisation from about 80 to 50 mV. Notwithstanding hyperkalemic solutions providing acceptable clinical outcomes recent evidence suggests that progressive potassium induced depolarisation leads to ionic and metabolic imbalances that may be linked to myocardial stunning ventricular arrhythmias ischaemic injury endothelial cell swelling microvascular damage cell death and loss of pump function during the reperfusion period. Infant hearts are even more prone to damage with cardioplegic arrest from high potassium than adult hearts. The major ion imbalances postulated are linked to an increased sodium influx which in turn activates the Na Ca exchangers leading to a rise in intracellular Ca. Compensatory activation of Na and Ca ion pumps then occur which activate anaerobic metabolism to replenish ATP with a concomitant increase in tissue lactate and fall in tissue pH. Free radical generation and oxidative stress have also been implicated in potassium arrest and partially reversed by the administration of antioxidants. In some cases high potassium induced ischaemia has been reported to have damaged smooth muscle and endothelial function.

In an attempt to minimise ischaemic damage during cardioplegic arrest an increasing number of experimental studies have employed potassium channel openers instead of high potassium. Cardioprotection using nicorandil aprikalim or pinacidil is believed to be linked to the opening of the potassium channel which leads to a hyperpolarised state a shortening of the action potential and decreasing Ca influx into the cell. One shortfall however is that the heart takes the same time or longer to recover with no improvement in function than with high potassium cardioplegic solutions. Another limitation is that pinacidil requires a carrier due to its low solubility in aqueous solutions. The carrier routinely used is dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO which is controversial when used in animal or human therapy.

Most investigators including those who advocate using potassium channel openers believe that as soon as blood flow is halted and the arrest solution administered ischaemia occurs and progressively increases with time. To reduce the likelihood of damage we sought a cardioplegic solution that would place the heart in a reversible hypometabolic state analogous to the tissues of a hibernating turtle a hummingbird in torpor or an aestivating desert frog. When these animals drop their metabolic rate some by over 90 their tissues do not become progressively ischaemic but remain in a down regulated steady state where supply and demand are matched. An ideal cardioplegic solution should produce a readily reversible rapid electrochemical arrest with minimal tissue ischaemia. The heart should accumulate low tissue lactate utilise little glycogen show minimal changes in high energy phosphates cytosolic redox NAD NADH and the bioenergetic phosphorylation ATP ADP Pi ratio and free energy of ATP. There should be little or no change in cytosolic pH or free magnesium minimal water shifts between the intracellular and extracellular phases and no major ultrastructural damage to organelles such as the mitochondria. The ideal cardioplegic solution should produce 100 functional recovery with no ventricular arrhythmia cytosolic calcium overload or other pump abnormalities. There is no cardioplegic solution currently available which fulfils all these requirements. We have now found that the heart can be better protected during arrest and recovery by using the potassium channel opener adenosine and the local anaesthetic lignocaine.

The action of adenosine is controversial. Adenosine has been shown to increase coronary blood flow hyperpolarise the cell membrane and act as a preconditioning agent via the ATP sensitive potassium channel and adenosine related pathways including adenosine receptors notably the A1 receptor. Adenosine is also known to improve myocardial recovery as an adjunct to high potassium cardioplegia. Furthermore adenosine can be used as a pretreatment whether or not it is present in the arresting solution to reduce lethal injury. In one study adenosine was shown to rival potassium arrest solutions and more recently in blood cardioplegia it prevented post ischaemic dysfunction in ischaemically injured hearts. Adenosine is sometimes added as an adjunct to potassium cardioplegia.

Lignocaine is a local anaesthetic which blocks sodium fast channels and has antiarrhythmatic properties by reducing the magnitude of inward sodium current. The accompanying shortening of the action potential is thought to directly reduce calcium entry into the cell via Ca selective channels and Na Ca exchange. Recent reports also implicate lignocaine with the scavenging of free radicals such as hydroxyl and singlet oxygen in the heart during reperfusion. Associated with this scavenging function lignocaine may also inhibit phospholipase activity and minimise membrane degradation during ischaemia. Lignocaine has also been shown to have a myocardial protective effect and in one study was found to be superior to high potassium solutions. However our experiments show that lignocaine alone at 0.5 1.0 and 1.5 mM gave highly variable functional recoveries using the isolated working rat heart.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for arresting protecting and or preserving an organ which includes administering effective amounts of i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic to a subject in need thereof.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic in the manufacture of a medicament for arresting protecting and or preserving an organ.

The present invention also provides i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic for use in arresting protecting and or preserving an organ.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes effective amounts of i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic.

While the present invention is particularly advantageous in arresting protecting and or preserving an organ while it is intact in the body of the subject it will be appreciated that it may also be used to arrest protect and or preserve isolated organs.

Thus the present invention still further provides a method for arresting protecting and or preserving an organ which includes adding a composition which includes effective amounts of i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic to the organ.

The term adding is used herein in its broadest sense to refer to any methods of exposing the organ to the composition of the present invention for example bathing perfusing or pumping via various routes.

The term organ is used herein in its broadest sense and refers to any part of the body exercising a specific function including tissues and cells or parts thereof for example cell lines or organelle preparations. Other examples include circulatory organs such as the heart respiratory organs such as the lungs urinary organs such as the kidneys or bladder digestive organs such as the stomach liver pancreas or spleen reproductive organs such as the scrotum testis ovaries or uterus neurological organs such as the brain germ cells such as spermatozoa or ovum and somatic cells such as skin cells heart cells i.e. myocytes nerve cells brain cells or kidney cells.

The method of the present invention is particularly useful in arresting protecting and or preserving the heart during open heart surgery including heart transplants. Other applications include reducing heart damage before during or following cardiovascular intervention which may include a heart attack angioplasty or angiography. For example the composition could be administered to subjects who have suffered or are developing a heart attack and used at the time of administration of blood clot busting drugs such as streptokinase. As the clot is dissolved the presence of the composition may protect the heart from further injury such as reperfusion injury. The composition may be particularly effective as a cardioprotectant in those portions of the heart that have been starved of normal flow nutrients and or oxygen for different periods of time. For example the composition may be used to treat heart ischaemia which could be pre existing or induced by cardiovascular intervention.

Thus the present invention also provides a cardioplegic or cardioprotectant composition which includes effective amounts of i a potassium channel opener or agonist and or an adenosine receptor agonist and ii a local anaesthetic.

The potassium channel openers or agonists may be selected from nicorandil diazoxide minoxidil pinicadil aprikalim cromokulim NS 1619 1 3 dihydro 1 2 hydroxy5 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 trifluoromethyl 2 H benimidazol one amlodipine Bay K 8644 L type 1 4 dihydro 26 dimethyl 5 nitro 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl 3 pyridine carboxylic acid methyl ester bepridil HCl L type calciseptine L type omega conotoxin GVIA N type omega conotoxin MVIIC Q type cyproheptadine HCl dantrolene sodium Ca release inhibitor diltiazem HCl L type filodipine flunarizine HCl Ca Na fluspirilene L type HA 1077 2HCl 1 5 isoquinolinyl sulphonyl homo piperazine.HCl isradipine loperamide HCl manoalide Ca release inhibitor nicardipine HCl L type nifedipine L type niguldipine HCl L type nimodipine L type nitrendipine L type pimozide L and T type ruthenium red ryanodine SR channels taicatoxin verapamil HCl L type methoxy verapamil HCl L type YS 035 HCl L type N 2 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl ethyl 3 4 dimethoxy N methyl benzene ethaneamine HCl and AV blockers such as verapamil and adenosine. It will be appreciated that this list includes calcium antagonists as potassium channel openers are indirect calcium antagonists.

Adenosine is particularly preferred as it is capable of opening the potassium channel hyperpolarising the cell depressing metabolic function possibly protecting endothelial cells enhancing preconditioning of tissue and protecting from ischaemia or damage. Adenosine is also an indirect calcium antagonist vasodilator antiarrhythmic antiadrenergic free radical scavenger arresting agent anti inflammatory agent attenuates neutrophil activation metabolic agent and possible nitric oxide donor.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method for arresting protecting and or preserving an organ which includes administering effective amounts of adenosine and a local anaesthetic to a subject in need thereof.

Suitable adenosine receptor agonists include N cyclopentyladenosine CPA N ethylcarboxamido adenosine NECA 2 p 2 carboxyethyl phenethyl amino 5 N ethylcarboxamido adenosine CGS 21680 2 chloroadenosine N 2 3 5 dimethoxyphenyl 2 2 methoxyphenyl ethyladenosine 2 chloro N cyclopentyladenosine CCPA N 4 aminobenzyl 9 5 methylcarbonyl beta D robofuranosyl adenine AB MEGA IS 1a 2b 3b 4a S 4 7 2 3 chloro 2 thienyl 1 methyl propyl amino 3H imidazole 4 5 b pyridyl 3 yl cyclopentane carboxamide AMP579 N R phenylisopropyladenosine R PLA aminophenylethyladenosine 9APNEA and cyclohexyladenosine CHA .

The local anaesthetic can be selected from mexiletine diphenylhydantoin prilocalne procaine mepivacaine and Class 1B antiarrhythmic agents such as lignocaine or derivatives thereof for example QX 314. Lignocaine is preferred as it is capable of acting as a local anaesthetic probably by blocking sodium fast channels depressing metabolic function lowering free cytosolic calcium protecting against enzyme release from cells possibly protecting endothelial cells and protecting against myofilament damage. Lignocaine is also a free radical scavenger and an antiarrhythmic.

As lignocaine acts by blocking sodium fast channels it will be appreciated that other sodium channel blockers could be used instead of or in combination with the local anaesthetic in the method and composition of the present invention. Examples of suitable sodium channel blockers include venoms such as tetrodotoxin.

Thus in a particularly preferred embodiment there is provided a method for arresting protecting and or preserving an organ which includes administering effective amounts of adenosine and lignocaine to a subject in need thereof.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes effective amounts of adenosine and lignocaine.

For ease of reference the potassium channel opener or agonist and or adenosine receptor agonist and the local anaesthetic will hereinafter be referred to as the active ingredients .

The method of the present invention involves the administration of effective amounts of the active ingredients for a time and under conditions sufficient for the organ to be arrested protected and or preserved. The active ingredients may be administered separately sequentially or simultaneously and in a single dose or series of doses.

The subject may be a human or an animal such as a livestock animal e.g. sheep cow or horse laboratory test animal e.g. mouse rabbit or guinea pig or a companion animal e.g. dog or cat particularly an animal of economic importance.

It will be appreciated that the amounts of active ingredients present in the composition will depend on the nature of the subject the type of organ being arrested protected and or preserved and the proposed application. In the case of a human subject requiring heart arrest during open heart surgery the concentration of adenosine is preferably about 0.001 to about 20 mM more preferably about 0.01 to about 10 mM most preferably about 0.05 to about 5 mM and the concentration of lignocaine is preferably about 0.001 to about 20 mM more preferably about 0.01 to about 10 mM most preferably about 0.05 to about 5 mM. In the case of a human subject requiring treatment before during or following a heart attack or cardiovascular intervention the preferred concentrations of adenosine and lignocaine are set out in the table below.

The active ingredients may be administered by any suitable route including oral implant rectal inhalation or insufflation through the mouth or nose topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal and parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intrasternal and intradermal . Preferably administration in open heart surgery or cardiovascular intervention applications will be achieved by mixing the active ingredients with the blood of the subject or subjects having a similar blood type. The active ingredients then enter the coronary circulation generally via the aorta. Arrest may also be achieved by either continuous or intermittent delivery. For example heart arrest may occur by either continuous or intermittent perfusion retrograde through the aorta in the Langendorff mode. However it will be appreciated that the preferred route will vary with the condition and age of the subject and the chosen active ingredients.

The composition of the present invention is highly beneficial at about 15 C. to about 37 C. preferably about 20 C. to about 37 C. where longer arrest times using St Thomas No. 2 solution can only be achieved when the temperature is lowered for example down to about 4 C.

While it is possible for one or both of the active ingredients to be administered alone it is preferable to administer one or both of them together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents adjuvants and or excipients. Each carrier diluent adjuvant and or excipient must be pharmaceutically acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the composition and not injurious to the subject. The compositions may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. Preferably the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers diluents adjuvants and or excipients.

The present invention also extends to a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes the active ingredients and a pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable carrier diluent adjuvant and or excipient.

Compositions of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules sachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredients as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. The active ingredients may also be presented as a bolus electuary or paste.

A tablet may be made by compression or moulding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder e.g. pregelatinised maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose fillers e.g. lactose microcyrstalline cellulose or calcium hydrogen phosphate lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate talc or silica inert diluent preservative disintegrant e.g. magnesium stearate talc or silica inert diluent preservative disintegrant e.g. sodium starch glycollate cross linked povidone cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agents. Moulded tablets may be made by moulding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile. Tablets may optionally be provided with an enteric coating to provide release in parts of the gut other than the stomach.

Liquid preparations for administration prior to arresting protecting and or preserving the organ may take the form of for example solutions syrups or suspensions or they may be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may be prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents e.g. sorbitol syrup cellulose derivatives or hydrogenated edible fats emulsifying agents e.g. lecithin or acacia non aqueous vehicles e.g. almond oil oily esters ethyl alcohol or fractionated vegetable oils preservatives e.g. methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoates or sorbic acid and energy sources e.g. carbohydrates such as glucose fats such as palmitate or amino acid .

Compositions suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredients in a flavoured basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth gum pastilles comprising the active ingredients in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia gum and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredients in a suitable liquid carrier.

For topical application for the skin the active ingredients may be in the form of a cream ointment jelly solution or suspension.

For topical application to the eye the active ingredients may be in the form of a solution or suspension in a suitable sterile aqueous or non aqueous vehicle. Additives for instance buffers preservatives including bactericidal and fungicidal agents such as phenyl mercuric acetate or nitrate benzalkonium chloride or chlorohexidine and thickening agents such as hypromellose may also be included.

The active ingredients may also be formulated as depot preparations. Such long acting formulations may be administered by implantation e.g. subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the active ingredients may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials e.g. as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

Compositions for rectal administration may be presented as a suppositry or retention enema with a suitable non irritation excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the active ingredients. Such excipients include cocoa butter or a salicylate.

For intranasal and pulmonary administration the active ingredients may be formulated as solutions or suspensions for administration via a suitable metered or unit dose device or alternatively as a powder mix with a suitable carrier for administration using a suitable delivery device.

Compositions suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate. Compositions suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the composition isotonic with the blood of the intended subject and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The compositions may be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers for example ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilised condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injections immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described

When the composition is for veterinary use it may be prepared for example by methods that are conventional in the art. Examples of such veterinary compositions include those adapted for 

It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the compositions of this invention may include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of composition in question for example those suitable for oral administration may include such further agents as binders sweeteners thickeners flavouring agents disintegrating agents coating agents preservatives lubricants and or time delay agents.

Suitable sweeteners include sucrose lactose glucose aspartame or saccharin. Suitable disintegrating agents include corn starch methylcellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone xanthan gum bentonite alginic acid or agar. Suitable flavouring agents include peppermint oil oil of wintergreen cherry orange or raspberry flavouring. Suitable coating agents include polymers or copolymers of acrylic acid and or methacrylic acid and or their esters waxes fatty alcohols zein shellac or gluten. Suitable preservatives include sodium benzoate vitamin E alpha tocopherol ascorbic acid methyl paraben propyl paraben or sodium bisulphite. Suitable lubricants include magnesium stearate steric acid sodium oleate sodium chloride or talc. Suitable time delay agents include glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate.

A preferred pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is a buffer having a pH of about 6 to about 9 preferably about 7 more preferably about 7.4 and or low concentrations of potassium for example up to about 10 mM more preferably about 2 to about 8 mM most preferably about 4 to about 6 mM. Suitable buffers include Krebs Henseleit which generally contains 10 mM glucose 117 mM NaCl 5.9 mM KCl 25 mM NaHCO 1.2 mM NaHPO 1.12 mMCaCl free Ca 1.07 mM and 0.512 mM MgCl free Mg 0.5 mM St. Thomas No. solution Tyrodes solution which generally contains 10 mM glucose 126 mM NaCl 5.4 mM KCl 1 mM CaCl 1 mM MgCl 0.33 mM NaHPOand 10 mM HEPES N 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine N 2 ethane sulphonic acid Fremes solution Hartmanns solution which generally contains 129 NaCl 5 mM KCl 2 mM CaCland 29 mM lactate and Ringers Lactate. One advantage of using low potassium is that it renders the present composition less injurous to the subject in particular pediatric subjects such as neonates infants. High potassium has been linked to an accumulation of calcium which may be associated with irregular heart beats during recovery heart damage and cell swelling. Neonates infants are even more susceptible than adults to high potassium damage during cardiac arrest. After surgery for defects a neonate infant s heart may not return to normal for many days sometimes requiring intensive therapy or life support. It is also advantageous to use carriers having low concentrations of magnesium such as for example up to about 2.5 mM but it will be appreciated that high concentrations of magnesium for example up to about 20 mM can be used if desired without substantially effecting the activity of the composition.

In a further preferred embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes adenosine lignocaine and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which contains up to about 10 mM potassium.

In a still further preferred embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical or veterinary composition which includes adenosine lignocaine and Krebs Henseleit buffer.

The composition may also advantageously be presented in the form of a kit in which the active ingredients are held separately for separate sequential or simultaneous administration.

It will be appreciated that the composition of the present invention may also include and or be used in combination with known medicaments depending on the proposed application. For instance medicaments which substantially prevent the breakdown of adenosine in the blood such as nucleoside transport inhibitors for example dipyridamole could be used as additives in the composition of the present invention. The half life of adenosine in the blood is about 10 seconds so the presence of a medicament to substantially prevent its breakdown will maximise the effect of the composition of the present invention. Dipyridamole could advantageously be included in concentrations from about 0.1 nM to about 10 mM and has major advantages with respect to cardioprotection. Dipyridamole may supplement the actions of adenosine by inhibiting adenosine transport which increases vasodilation. This could be particularly important when the composition is administered intermittently.

Other examples of medicaments include clot busting drugs such as streptokinase. As discussed earlier the composition could be administered at the time of administration of streptokinase in subjects who have suffered or are developing a heart attack.

The invention will now be described with reference to the following examples. These examples are not to be construed as limiting in any way.

This example compares the effects of adenosine 100 M cardioplegia with hyperkalemic St. Thomas Hospital No. solution 16 mM K on functional recovery after a period of global ischaemia using continuous perfusion.

Hearts from male 450 g Sprague Dawley rats n 19 were perfused for 30 minutes in the working mode preload 7.5 mmHg afterload 100 mmHg with Krebs Henseleit pH 7.4 buffer at 37 C. Hearts were then arrested in a retrograde mode at a constant pressure of 70 mmHg with either i a solution containing 100 M adenosine and 0.5 mM lignocaine in filtered Krebs Henseleit 10 mM glucose pH 7.6 7.8 37 C. n 11 or ii St. Thomas No solution 0.2 micron filter n 8 . Following either 30 minutes or 4 hrs of arrest the hearts were switched back to normal antegrade perfusion with Krebs Henseleit pH 7.4 37 C. Heart rate coronary flow aortic flow aortic pressure and oxygen consumption were monitored. Statistical significance was assessed using a Student t Test.

Hearts arrested for 30 minutes using adenosine cardioplegia achieved quiescence in half the time compared to St. Thomas No. solution 30 vs 77 seconds p

In terms of functional parameters 100 M adenosine and 0.5 mM lignocaine cardioplegia lead to shorter rest times and an enhanced recovery profile compared to the St. Thomas Hospital No. solution.

Adult Wistar rats 350 g were prepared using the method described in Example 2 and then subjected to intermittent perfusion as discussed below.

Intermittent retrograde perfusion was performed under a constant pressure head of 70 mmHg after hearts were switched back from the working mode to the Lagendorff mode. After stabilisation the hearts were arrested using 50 ml of either adenosine plus lignocaine cardioplegia or St Thomas Hospital No solution. The aorta was then cross clamped and the heart left to sit arrested for 20 min except in 30 min intermittent arrest protocol after which the clamp was released and 2 min of arrest solution delivered from a pressure head of 70 mmHg. The clamp was replaced and this procedure continued for up to 30 mins 2 hrs and 4 hrs at 37 C.

Intermittent cardioplegic delivery is the method commonly used clinically in contrast to continuous perfusion in Example 1. During Intermittent arrest the aorta of the subject is clamped and the arrest solution administered. After a few minutes the heart is arrested and cardioplegia delivery stopped. The heart remains motionless to permit surgery. The arrest solution is administered again every 30 min for few minutes to maintain the heart in the arrested state to preserve and protect the heart muscle. Between these times the heart muscle slowly becomes ischaemic indicated by the production of lactate and fall in muscle pH. For this reason intermittent perfusion delivery is often called intermittent ischaemic arrest. The results are shown in Tables 3 to 7 below and .

Table 3 and show that A L arrests in half the time of St Thomas solution 21 s n 7 vs 53 s n 10 . All hearts returned function to the same level following reperfusion no significant difference between groups .

Table 5 and show that A L arrests in half the time of St Thomas solution 33 s n 7 vs 81 s n 8 . 4 out of 8 hears arrested with St Thomas did not recover. All A L hearts survived n 7 . St Thomas hearts which recovered n 4 had 50 90 aortic flow 70 120 heart rate and 90 100 systolic pressure. A L hearts recovered 80 aortic flow 95 heart rate and 95 100 systolic pressure.

Tables 6 and 7 and show A L arrests in half the time of St Thomas solution 26 s n 9 vs 78 s n 7 . 6 out of 7 hearts arrested with St Thomas did not recover. All A L hearts survived n 9 . The single St Thomas heart which recovered had 40 aortic flow 80 heart rate and 90 systolic pressure. A L hearts recovered 70 aortic flow 90 heart rate and 95 100 systolic pressure.

Neonatal infant rat hearts using 50 70 g 20 day old rats were prepared using the intermittent perfusion technique for 2 hr at 37 C. described in Example 2 except the pressure head of delivery and afterload was reduced to 50 mmHg. The results shown in Tables 8 and 9 below and show that A L arrests in a third of the time of St Thomas solution 19 s n 7 vs 66 s n 7 . 3 out of 7 hearts arrest with St Thomas did not recover. All A L hearts survived n 7 with 80 aortic flow. The St Thomas hearts which recovered averaged 80 aortic flow rate but this was extremely variable.

All neonatal infant hearts arrested with AL solution recovered after 2 hr intermittent ischaemic arrest. Only 4 out o 7 hearts arrested with St Thomas solution recovered after 2 hr intermittent ischaemic arrest. In AL arrested hearts heart rate and systolic pressure recovered to 90 100 of control values wherein St Thomas hearts there was only 50 60 recovery. Aortic flow coronary flow and rate pressure product recovered to 80 and above the controls in AL hearts and only about 50 in St Thomas hearts. Oxygen consumption in the AL hearts was 70 85 of controls and about 60 for the hearts arrested with St Thomas solution. It can be concluded that AL arrest provides superior protection during 2 hr arrest and recover in neonatal infant hearts.

Table 10 below shows that adenosine and lignocaine are effective in 1 2 day old neonatal pig heart cardioplegia. 2 hours of 2 min pulses of cardioplegia administered between 20 min periods of aortic clamping .

Male Wistar rats 250 g were housed in a temperature and light controlled room. Food and water were provided freely until the day before the experiment when the food was withheld and the rats were fasted overnight. The rats were anaesthetized with an intraperitoneal injection of pentobarbital 60 mg kg . Under anaesthesia the rats were implanted with cannulas in the femoral vein and artery for adenosine and lignocaine AL administration and blood pressure measurement respectively. A tracheotomy was performed and the rats were artificially ventilated with room air at 60 to 70 breaths min. The chests of the rats were cut open and the left anterior descending LAD coronary artery located. A piece of suture was placed underneath LAD. After a 20 min baseline period LAD of the group of experimental rats were ligated for 30 min and blood pressure and heart rate monitored. After 30 min of ischaemia the ligature was released and the heart reperfused for 20 min. In the control rats no AL was administered as shown in . In the AL infusion 3 rats were used at three different doses of adenosine 

Compared to rats with 30 min ischaemia no AL infusion it was found that AL protected the heart in a dose dependent manner with the greatest protection occurring at the higher doses. As the dose of adenosine was halved the protection was progressively lost. However even in the worse case the function of the heart was significantly better than with no AL alone. All hearts in rats receiving AL recovered in rate and pressure.

Two groups of rats undergoing a heart attack with and without a solution of AL were placed in a nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrometer and the metabolic data is shown in . NMR non invasively measures the changes in adenosine triphosphate ATP phosphocreatine PCr and pH during 30 min of coronary artery occlusion. In a separate experiment on the bench hearts were freeze clamped at liquid nitrogen temperatures and glycogen and lactate were measured using routine enzymatic methods on neutralised tissue acid extracts using a spectrophotometer. Major significant differences P

Arrest solutions were made with 200 M and 50 M of the local anaesthetics prilocalne procaine and mepivacaine in Krebs Henseleit having 10 mM glucose at pH7.4. The results shown in Table 11 below are for 30 min constant perfusion of cardioplegia at 70 mmHg.

Arrest solutions were made with pinacidil dissolved in 0.05 dimethysulfoxide DMSO 200 M the local anaesthetics prilocalne procaine mepivacaine and lignocaine in Krebs Henseleit solution. As shown in Table 12 below pinacidil was found to be not as effective as adenosine.

The addition of the ATP potassium channel blocker glibenclamide 20 M and adenosine and lignocaine delayed arrest times more than threefold from 26 sec AL to 76 120 sec ALG n 2 . Furthermore the slower recovery times and lower aortic flow 42 53 in the presence of glibenclamide shows the importance of opening the KATP channels as a mode of arrest and protection afforded by AL. It can be concluded from these results that the ATP potassium channel is an important target eliciting the arrest response from adenosine and lignocaine.

