---

title: Robotic hand with modular extensions
abstract: A robotic device is described herein. The robotic device includes a frame that comprises a plurality of receiving regions that are configured to receive a respective plurality of modular robotic extensions. The modular robotic extensions are removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions by way of respective mechanical fuses. Each mechanical fuse is configured to trip when a respective modular robotic extension experiences a predefined load condition, such that the respective modular robotic extension detaches from the frame when the load condition is met.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08936290&OS=08936290&RS=08936290
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08936290
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130725
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 694 566 filed on Aug. 29 2012 and entitled MODULAR ROBOT MANIPULATORS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The term improvised explosive device IED is used to describe bombs that are constructed and deployed in ways other than in conventional military applications. Often an IED is placed on or near a roadway and is configured to detonate when a vehicle passes over the IED or proximate to the IED. Accordingly locating IEDs prior to detonation is a critical task. There are currently several suitable techniques for locating identifying IEDs prior to detonation. Typically after an IED has been located the IED is caused to be detonated after an area proximate thereto has been secured such that damage caused by the IED is controlled.

Oftentimes however rather than detonating the IED it may be desirable to disarm the IED which may be useful in identifying techniques used by the IED maker and thus may be of use in locating the IED maker. Further disarming an IED rather than detonating the IED prevents infrastructure from becoming damaged. Conventional techniques for disarming IEDs however are suboptimal. Specifically robotics have been deployed to disarm IEDs however conventional robotics are prohibitively expensive. For instance a conventional robotic device that is suitable for disarming IEDs may cost millions of dollars.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a robotic device which can be in an exemplary embodiment a robotic hand. It is to be appreciated that aspects described herein may also be particularly well suited for other form factors including arms feet etc. In an exemplary embodiment the robotic hand can comprise a frame that includes a plurality of receiving regions wherein each receiving region comprises respective electrical contacts. The robotic hand further comprises a plurality of modular extensions fingers that are removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions. Each modular extension includes respective electrical contacts that connect with the electrical contacts at the receiving regions of the frame thereby electrically connecting processing electronics in the frame with actuators in the extensions.

An extension is coupled to the frame by way of a mechanical fuse that is configured to trip when a normal force and or a sheer force between a receiving region of the frame and a corresponding extension exceeds a predefined threshold. That is when a predefined load condition experienced by an extension when attached to the frame is met the modular extension detaches from the frame without damaging the frame the modular extension or other modular extensions attached to the frame. Further it is to be understood that detachment of an extension from the frame does not impact the operation of other extensions that remain attached to the frame.

In an exemplary embodiment magnets can be employed as the mechanical fuse thereby allowing for relatively easy detachment and re attachment of a modular extension to the frame of the robotic hand. In another exemplary embodiment the mechanical fuse may be an adhesive that can form a bond between the frame and an extension coupled thereto. The adhesive can be selected such that the extension detaches from the frame when a threshold amount of normal and or sheer force is applied at a region where the module extension is bonded to the frame.

An exemplary modular extension that can be removably attachable to the frame of the robotic hand may be in the general form of a human finger. In an exemplary embodiment the modular robotic finger can comprise three links a base link a proximal link that is coupled to the base link and a distal link that is coupled to the proximal link such that the proximal link is between the base link and the distal link. When the modular robotic finger is attached to the frame the base link is coupled to a respective receiving region by way of the mechanical fuse. The base link is coupled to the proximal link by way of a first joint and a second joint wherein the first joint supports adduction and abduction and the second joint supports flexion and extension. The third joint couples the proximal link to the distal link and supports flexion and extension. Accordingly each modular robotic finger can have at least three degrees of freedom associated therewith. In contrast to conventional robotic designs the modular robotic finger e.g. the base link comprises actuators that are configured to facilitate the aforementioned motion. In an exemplary embodiment the base link of the modular robotic finger can comprise three motors a first motor that supports the adduction and abduction a second motor that supports the flexion and extension corresponding to the second joint and a third motor that supports the flexion and extension corresponding to the third joint. In an exemplary embodiment the frame can comprise control circuitry that transmits control signals to the motors wherein the motors receive the control signals by way of the electrical connection formed when the electrical contacts of the modular robotic finger contact the electrical contacts of a respective receiving region of the frame.

Furthermore in an exemplary embodiment the base link can comprise a rotating module that is driven by a motor. The rotating module can comprise a planetary gearhead and a capstan wherein the capstan is wrapped around a ring gear of the planetary gearhead thereby allowing the ring gear to rotate relative to the motor. This motion drives a cable coupled to the capstan which in turn moves the extensions about the joints. The rotating module is compact in nature allowing for multiple rotating modules to be included in the base link of modular robotic finger rather than in the frame. Each motor in the base link of the extension drives a respective cable wherein the respective moves a respective link about a respective joint.

Further in an exemplary embodiment the cabling can be steel cabling and can act as a transmission line that transmits electric power from the control circuitry to at least one sensor in the modular robotic finger. Further the steel cabling can act as a data transmission line for transmitting data output by the sensor to the control circuitry in the frame. Utilization of the steel cabling as both mechanical cabling and conductive cabling reduces an amount of wiring that is run through the frame and the modular robotic fingers of the robotic hand thus reducing complexity and cost of the robotic hand.

Further in an exemplary embodiment the frame of the robotic hand can comprise a plurality of cameras and a projector for emitting structured light. For instance the frame of the hand can be positioned such that structured light is emitted from the projector to an object of interest e.g. an IED and the plurality of cameras can be arranged in the frame in a stereoscopic manner thereby facilitating generation of a three dimensional point cloud that is representative of depth of the object from the robotic hand. This information can be transmitted to a remote station and an operator can control the robotic hand based at least in part upon this information.

Furthermore while the modular extensions have been described above as being modular robotic fingers it is to be understood that since modular extensions can be readily attached and removed from the frame e.g. hot swapped the modular extensions may be designed to perform other functions. Pursuant to an example the frame of the robotic hand may comprise four receiving regions for receiving respective four modular extensions. A first modular extension may be in the form of a human finger. A second modular extension may have functionality of a drill. A third modular extension may have functionality of a flashlight. A fourth modular extension may have functionality of scissors. Thus it can be ascertained that a frame can be configured to receive several modular extensions that are designed to perform distinct functions. Additionally while the robotic hand has been described above as being particularly well suited for applications in connection with dismantling IEDs it is to be understood that features described herein may be particularly well suited for a variety of applications including but not limited to prosthetics industrial automation applications etc.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a robotic hand are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a robotic device that comprises a plurality of modular extensions. The examples herein depict the robotic device as being a robotic hand. It is to be understood however that features described herein may be applicable in connection with other robotic devices such as arms legs etc. Moreover features described herein may be readily applicable to robotic devices that are not analogous to a portion of the human anatomy. Furthermore while the exemplary robotic hand shown and described herein includes a particular number of extensions e.g. four it is be understood that the robotic hand may include any suitable number of modular extensions. For instance the robotic hand can comprise five modular extensions which can be analogous to the four fingers and thumb of a typical human hand. Of course the robotic hand may also include a greater or smaller number of modular extensions. Still further while the exemplary modular extensions shown and described herein are analogous to human fingers it is to be understood that one or more extensions that are removably attachable to a frame of the robotic hand may not be analogous to human fingers. For instance a modular extension may be have particular functionality such that it may act as a flashlight a drill scissors etc.

With reference now to a perspective view of an exemplary robotic hand is illustrated. The robotic hand comprises a frame . As will be described in greater detail herein the frame comprises a plurality of receiving regions not shown . Each receiving region of the frame can comprise respective electrical contacts which in an exemplary embodiment may be spring contacts rather than connectors .

The robotic hand further comprises a plurality of modular robotic fingers that are removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions of the frame . As will be shown and described in greater detail herein actuators that are configured to cause robotic links of a respective modular robotic finger can be located in the modular robotic finger rather than in the frame . Accordingly the shape of the frame can be relatively unrestricted such that it can be configured to support various positions of the modular robotic fingers when attached to the frame can support more or fewer modular robotic fingers etc.

Each modular robotic finger in the plurality of modular robotic fingers comprises respective electrical contacts that contact respective electrical contacts of the frame when a modular robotic finger is attached to the frame . For example the frame can comprise a first receiving region that includes first electrical contacts. The first modular robotic finger can be removably attached to the frame at the first receiving region. The first modular robotic finger includes second electrical contacts that contact the first electrical contacts of the first receiving region of the frame when the first modular robotic finger is coupled to the frame at the first receiving region. Accordingly an electrical connection is formed between control circuitry included in the frame and at least one actuator in the first modular robotic finger . In an exemplary embodiment electrical contacts of the first modular robotic finger and or of the first receiving region of the frame may be electrical spring contacts. Accordingly the electrical connection formed between the actuator of the first modular robotic finger and the control circuitry of the frame does not impede detachment of the first modular robotic finger from the frame .

The modular robotic fingers in the plurality of robotic modular fingers are removably attachable to the frame at the respective receiving regions of the frame by way of respective mechanical fuses wherein a mechanical fuse is configured to trigger break when a corresponding modular robotic finger experiences a predefined load condition. For example the first modular robotic finger can be coupled to the first receiving region of the frame by way of a first mechanical fuse wherein the first mechanical fuse is configured to trigger break upon the first modular robotic finger experiencing a predefined load condition. In an exemplary embodiment the mechanical fuse can be configured to trigger when a normal force between the frame and the first modular robotic finger at the first receiving region exceeds a predefined threshold thereby causing the first modular robotic finger to detach from the frame . In another exemplary embodiment the first mechanical fuse can be configured to trigger break when a shear lateral force between the frame and the first modular robotic finger at the first receiving region exceeds a predefined threshold thereby causing the first modular finger to detach from the frame .

In an exemplary embodiment the mechanical fuse can be formed through utilization of magnets. Specifically a first magnet having a first polarity can be positioned in the first receiving region of the frame and a second magnet having a second polarity opposite the first polarity can be positioned in a base link of the first modular robotic finger thereby forming a mechanical fuse between the base link of the first modular robotic finger and the frame . Utilization of magnets to form the mechanical fuse allows for the modular robotic fingers to be readily removed and or attached from the frame without causing damage to either the modular robotic fingers or the frame . Other mechanical fuses however are also contemplated. For instance a relatively fast bonding adhesive can be used to mechanically bond a modular robotic finger to the frame wherein the bond is configured to break if the modular robotic finger experiences a load condition above a threshold.

Now referring to a front view of the frame is illustrated. As can be ascertained the frame can be generally in the shape of a human palm. As there is a relatively small amount of electronic circuitry in the frame however it is to be understood that the frame can be of a variety of different shapes. The frame can comprise a plurality of cameras . The cameras may in an exemplary embodiment capture images at video rate e.g. the cameras may be video cameras . As can be ascertained the cameras can be stereoscopically arranged. The cameras can be synchronized such that a pair of images captured by the cameras is generated at substantially the same time. A pair of images that capture an object can be analyzed to ascertain depth of the object from the cameras and thus depth of the object from the frame and or modular robotic fingers .

Additionally the frame can include or have coupled thereto a projector not shown that is configured to emit structured light. In an exemplary embodiment the structured light can be in the visible spectrum and can be in the form of a grid or other suitable structure. The cameras can thus capture images of an object wherein the structured light is projected on such object. Control circuitry in the frame e.g. a motherboard can be employed to process such images and generate a 3D point cloud corresponding to the object based upon the structured light projected onto the object and captured in the images. In another exemplary embodiment the projector may be an infrared IR emitter and the frame can include at least one IR camera e.g. at least one camera in the plurality of cameras may be an IR camera . In yet another exemplary embodiment the frame can include an ultrasound US emitter as well as a sensor for detecting reflected US waves. Thus it can be ascertained that the frame is configured to include at least one color red green blue camera as well as a depth sensor. Images captured by the camera and depth data generated by the depth sensor can be employed to create the 3D point cloud thereby allowing an operator of the robotic hand to ascertain a distance between the frame and or at least one modular finger and an object that is desirably grasped or touched by the robotic hand . In other exemplary embodiments at least one of the modular robotic fingers can include a camera and or depth sensor.

The frame may also include a variety of other sensors including but not limited to a velocity sensor a three dimensional accelerometer a three dimensional magnetometer a three dimensional gyroscope a tactile sensor array that can indicate when the frame comes into contact with an object amongst other sensors. Additionally the frame can include an antenna and or a communications port that facilitates receipt of control commands from a remotely situated control center. With more particularity as referenced above the frame can comprise control circuitry e.g. a motherboard a CPU a GPU an ASIC a FPGA . . . . The control circuitry has an antenna associated therewith that can receive control commands from a remotely situated control center. The control circuitry responsive to receipt of the control commands can process such commands and transmit at least one control signal to at least one actuator in a modular finger based upon the control commands. Accordingly the robotic hand can be controlled from a remote location thereby facilitating for instance disablement of an IED without requiring the operator to be proximate to the IED.

The frame may also include a plurality of apertures e.g. which may be at least partially threaded that are configured to receive threaded fasteners. Likewise the modular robotic fingers may include at least partially threaded apertures that align with the threaded apertures when the modular robotic fingers are attached to the frame . Thus in an example a threaded fastener can pass through the aperture such that a threaded end of the threaded fastener extends beyond the backside of the frame . The threaded fastener is then threaded into the threaded aperture of the first modular robotic finger thereby more permanently fastening the first modular robotic finger to the frame . The threaded fasteners can be utilized in situations when it is not desirable for the modular robotic fingers to detach from the frame .

Moreover as referenced above the frame includes control circuitry that transmits control commands to actuators of modular fingers that are attached to the frame . Furthermore the control circuitry receives images output by the cameras as well as depth data generated by the depth sensor. The control circuitry analyzes such data to generate a three dimensional point cloud. The control circuitry selectively transmits control commands to actuators of attached modular fingers which causes the actuators to perform predefined functions. In an exemplary embodiment the actuators can be electrically coupled in parallel with one another thereby allowing actuators to be the same in and across the modular robotic fingers .

With reference now to an exemplary back view of the frame of the robotic hand is illustrated. The frame includes a plurality of receiving regions . In an example the back side of the frame can include a planar rear surface . The receiving regions can comprise recesses which are respectably recessed from the rear planar surface . Depths of the recesses relative to the rear planar surface can be respectively selected based upon a predefined load condition associated with detachment of the modular robotic fingers from the frame . For example as the depth of the recesses increases relative to the rear planar surface the lateral force that can be applied to the modular robotic fingers that are respectively attached to the frame at the receiving regions needed to cause the modular robotic fingers to detach from the frame likewise increases. As will be shown below the modular robotic fingers can comprise protrusions that respectively correspond to the recesses of the receiving regions .

The receiving regions may further comprise respective sidewalls wherein respective slopes of the sidewalls can be selected based upon the desired predefined load condition that when applied to the modular fingers causes the modular fingers to detach from the frame . For instance as steepness of the sidewalls increases the lateral force needed to be applied to the modular fingers to cause such modular fingers to detach from the frame likewise increases.

The receiving regions can also each comprise a respective plurality of magnets. More specifically the first receiving region can comprise a first plurality of magnets the second receiving region can comprise a second plurality of magnets and the third receiving region can comprise a third plurality of magnets . The modular robotic fingers can comprise respective pluralities of magnets of polarities opposing the polarities of the magnets in the receiving regions such that when the modular robotic fingers are respectively attached to the frame at the receiving regions the modular robotic fingers remain attached unless the predefined load condition is met.

The plurality of receiving regions can further comprise respective electrical contacts wherein the electrical contacts are electrically coupled to the control circuitry included in the frame . The modular robotic fingers have corresponding electrical contacts thereon such that when the modular robotic fingers are attached to the frame at the respective receiving regions the electrical contacts of the receiving regions contact corresponding electrical contacts of the modular robotic fingers . When the electrical contacts in the frame contact electrical contacts of the modular robotic fingers electrical connections are formed between the control circuitry in the frame and actuators in the modular robotic fingers . Additionally when electrical contacts in the frame contact corresponding electrical contacts of the modular robotic fingers a communications channel between sensors in the modular robotic fingers and the control circuitry of the frame is formed.

While not shown in another receiving region can be located on the side or bottom of the frame for receiving another modular robotic finger. Further the frame can be composed of any suitable material including a plastic a metal or the like. As indicated above the actuators for moving links of the modular robotic fingers are included in the modular robotic fingers themselves thereby allowing the frame to have a relatively small footprint. Further as the modular robotic fingers are configured to be relatively easily detached and re attached to the frame expensive damage is not caused if the fingers are subjected to a relatively large load condition e.g. the modular robotic fingers detach from the frame thereby preventing damage to the modular robotic fingers and or the frame .

Now referring to a perspective view of the third modular robotic finger being attached to the frame is illustrated. The third modular robotic finger and other modular robotic fingers comprises a plurality of robotic links a base link a proximal link and a distal link . As will be shown and described herein the base link comprises actuators that drive movement of the proximal link and the distal link about joints of the third modular robotic finger . The base link comprises a front planar surface . A protrusion extends from the front planar surface wherein height of the protrusion relative to the front planar surface corresponds with the depth of the third recess of the third receiving region of the frame . Furthermore shape of the protrusion corresponds with the shape of the third recess . The protrusion has a sidewall with a slope that corresponds to the slope of the sidewall of the third receiving region .

The protrusion further includes a plurality of magnets of polarities that respectively oppose polarities of the magnets of the third receiving region . The base link also comprises electrical contacts that extend from the front planar surface wherein the electrical contacts are configured to contact the third electrical contacts in the third receiving region when the third modular robotic finger is attached to the frame at the third receiving region . If it is desirable to more permanently attach the third modular robotic finger to the frame then a threaded fastener can be passed through the aperture of the frame and can be threaded into a corresponding threaded aperture in the protrusion of the base link .

Turning now to a front view of the third modular robotic finger is illustrated. As indicated above the third modular robotic finger includes a base link a proximal link and a distal link . The modular robotic finger also comprises a plurality of joints a first joint that facilitates adduction and abduction about the first joint a second joint that facilitates flexion and extension about the second joint and a third joint that facilitates flexion and tension about the third joint . Accordingly the third modular robotic finger has three degrees of movement. In an exemplary embodiment the joints can be formed of radial bearings with pins extending therethrough such that robotic links coupled by way of a joint can move relative to one another about such joint.

With reference now to an exemplary side view of the third modular robotic finger is depicted. As can be ascertained the joints and support flexion and extension while the joint sports adduction and abduction.

Now referring to another exemplary side view of the third modular robotic finger is shown wherein a range of motion of links of the modular robotic finger are depicted. It can be ascertained that the third modular robotic finger has a greater range of motion than what is supported by a human finger. For instance the second joint supports at least 180 of radial motion of the proximal link relative to the base link . The third joint supports at least 205 of radial motion of the distal link relative to the proximal link . Thus if desired and in connection with completion of a task the third modular robotic finger can be positioned in a manner that is not natural or possible for a human finger.

With reference to a front view of the third modular robotic finger is illustrated wherein adduction and abduction supported by the first joint of the modular robotic finger is shown. For instance the first joint can support 180 of radial motion of the proximal link relative to the base link .

Now referring to another exemplary perspective view of the third modular robotic finger is shown. As can be ascertained the base link comprises a plurality of modules. With more specificity the base link comprises a cover module a gearing module and a motor module . In an exemplary embodiment the cover module the gearing module and the motor module can be coupled to one another by way of a plurality of threaded fasteners . For example while not shown the cover module the gearing module and the motor module can comprise apertures that align with one another when the modules are aligned with one another. The threaded fasteners can pass through apertures of the cover module and the gearing module e.g. which may or may not be threaded apertures and can be threaded into threaded apertures of the motor module thereby relatively attaching the modules to one another.

The cover module comprises the front planar surface and the magnets that are positioned on the protrusion . The gearing module comprises a plurality of rotating modules that respectively drive steel cabling that is coupled to the proximal link and or the distal link thereby causing the proximal link and or the distal link to rotate about the joints and respectively. The motor module comprises a plurality of motors that respectively drive the plurality of rotating modules. In exemplary embodiment the plurality of motors in the motor module can be grounded to a common ground in the base link such that the motors in the motor module can be identical.

Turning now to a cutaway view of the base link of the third modular robotic finger is illustrated. The base link comprises the motor module which includes a first motor a second motor and a third motor . In the exemplary embodiment shown in the plurality of motors are coupled to respective ring gears not shown that are configured to mesh with respective planetary gearheads. depicts planetary gearheads and driven by the motors and respectively. Furthermore the planetary gearhead has a capstan formed thereon wherein the capstan is used to control winding of cabling driven by the planetary gearhead which causes a link of the third modular robotic finger to rotate about a joint. A capstan is also shown wherein the capstan covers a planetary gearhead not shown that is driven by the motor . In other words the motors and drive respective rotating modules wherein the rotating modules comprise respective planetary gearheads and capstans formed thereon. The motor drives the planetary gearhead but need not include a capstan since the planetary gearhead directly rotates the proximal link relative to the base link about the first joint . The planetary gearhead can have a sliding surface such that cabling driven by the second motor and the third motor can slide thereover e.g. movement of the cabling driven by the second motor and the third motor is not impeded by the planetary gearhead . Likewise the capstan not shown formed on the planetary gearhead can have a sliding surface such that cabling driven by the third motor is not impeded by the capstan formed on the planetary gearhead .

Now referring to a transparent view illustrating routing of mechanical transmission cables through the links of the third modular robotic finger is illustrated. The gearing module is shown as including three rotating modules which are driven by the respective motors . The rotating module is composed of a planetary gearhead with a capstan formed thereon. Likewise the rotating module is formed of a planetary gearhead with a capstan formed thereon wherein the capstan has a sliding surface which allows cabling driven by the rotating module which is driven by the motor to slide over the surface thereof. The first rotating module may act as the first joint in that rotation of the first rotating module causes the proximal link to rotate about the base link e.g. thereby supporting adduction and abduction . The second rotating module can drive a pair of steel cables that are routed about the sliding surface of the first rotating module e.g. on opposing sides thereof and further routed through the second joint coupling on opposing sides of the second joint . Accordingly as the second motor drives the second rotating module the cabling is in turn driven which moves the proximal link about the second in the appropriate direction flexion and extension . The capstan formed on the planetary gearhead of the second rotating module is used to wind excess cable thus removing slack from the cabling.

Likewise the third rotating module is driven by the third motor which drives a respective pair of mechanical cables. A capstan of the third rotating module is used to remove slack from the mechanical cables driven by the third rotating module . The pair of cables driven by the third rotating module can be routed on opposing sides of the second rotating module and further routed on opposing sides of the first rotating module over the respective sliding surfaces and can further wrap about bearings throughout the third modular robotic finger . As shown the mechanical cabling driven by the third rotating module is coupled to opposing sides of the third joint such that rotation of the third rotating module in a first radial direction causes the distal link to move about the third joint relative to the proximal link in a first radial direction while rotation of the third rotating model in the opposite direction causes the distal link to rotate about the third joint relative to the proximal link in a second radial direction opposite the first radial direction .

In an exemplary embodiment the mechanical cabling that is routed through the third modular robotic finger can be steel cabling that can be coupled to respective sensor arrays in the third modular robotic finger . For instance it may be desirable to include an accelerometer a Gyroscope tactile sensors and the like in the proximal link and or the distal link . To reduce wiring necessary to power such sensors and to transport data from such sensors to the control circuitry in the frame the cabling can be steel cabling copper cabling or cabling of other suitable material that can be employed to both mechanically drive links of the third modular robotic finger provide power to sensors in the third modular robotic finger and transmit data output by the sensors to the control circuitry in the frame . Accordingly while not shown a sensor array may be included in the distal link wherein the sensor array is coupled to the cabling that is also used to drive movement of the distal link about the third joint . The cabling can be electrically coupled to the electrical contacts in the base link such that power and data can be transmitted between the control circuitry in the frame and the sensor array when the third modular robotic finger is attached to the frame .

Similarly cabling driven by the second rotating module can be coupled to a sensor array in the proximal link and can be used to rotate the proximal link about the second joint relative to the base link and can further be used to transmit power and data between such sensor array and the control circuitry in the frame .

Now referring to an exemplary transparent view depicting tensioning of a cable driven by the third rotating module is illustrated. The cable is routed through the third joint . A tensioning mechanism includes a threaded extension and a nut wherein rotating the nut clockwise relative to the threaded extension causes tension in the cable to be increased while rotating the nut counterclockwise relative to the threaded extension causes the tension in the cable to be decreased. The tensioning can be set prior to the third modular robotic finger being deployed for use. In another exemplary embodiment an actuator can be coupled to the nut such that tensioning can be modified as the third modular robotic finger is used.

Referring collectively to various exemplary arrangements of modular robotic fingers attached to respective frames of different shapes is depicted. It is to be understood that the modular robotic fingers described herein are hot swappable in nature such that they can be replaced quickly and easily. Furthermore other devices can be placed on a frame instead of modular robotic finger such as a flashlight scissors screwdriver etc. For purposes of disabling an IED for example the frame can have a flashlight to provide light to a remote viewer which can view images output by cameras in the frame two modular robotic fingers attached to the frame can be used to grasp a wire and a pair of scissors connected to the frame can be used to cut such wire. In other embodiments the modular robotic fingers themselves may include video cameras.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

