---

title: Content preview for electronic devices
abstract: Techniques for previewing portions of the content item using an electronic device include displaying a first portion of the content item, receiving input from a user indicative of a desire to browse a second portion of the content item different than the first portion, and displaying a preview window illustrating the second portion of the content item in response to the input. The preview window may enable the user to simultaneously view the second portion illustrated therein as well as at least part of the first portion. In addition, a viewing position of the user may be maintained at a location of the first portion in the content item while the second portion is illustrated in the preview window. Accordingly, the user may not lose context of the first portion of the content item while the viewing the second portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389757&OS=09389757&RS=09389757
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09389757
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
A large and growing population of users is consuming digital content items on a varying array of electronic devices. These electronic devices include dedicated electronic book reader devices smartphones desktop computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computing devices and the like. While consuming content items on these devices users often change viewing positions in the content item in order to read ahead or to review a portion of the content item that the user has previously read. For instance when reading an electronic book on an electronic book reader a user may scroll or otherwise move from the page of the electronic book that the user is currently reading to a page that the user previously read in order to review content on the previously read page. However because the user has changed his her viewing position in the electronic book from the current page to the previously read page the user may have difficulty returning to his her original viewing position in order to continue reading. As a result the user experience on such devices may not be optimized.

This disclosure describes systems devices methods and processes collectively techniques for interactively previewing portions of a content item on an electronic device while a current viewing position of the user is maintained e.g. held constant at a current location in the content item. The viewing position may be maintained at a location of a first portion of the content item e.g. the page paragraph sentence figure or other individual segment of the content item that is currently being consumed by the user while one or more other portions of the content item are browsed e.g. read viewed accessed previewed listened to displayed navigated to etc. by the user. As a result the user may not lose track of his her progress in consuming the content item. As will be described below the content items and the various portions thereof may comprise any sort of content that is able to be output visually audibly tactilely or in any other user perceivable manner. For instance portions of the content item may include sentences paragraphs or pages from books graphs illustrations or other figures typically found in such books clippings from websites posts from a social networking blogging or micro blogging services audio clips video clips images or the like.

For instance when a user consumes e.g. reads listens to etc. a content item on an electronic device the electronic device and or the user may access a content item stored either locally on the electronic device or at a remote content item service. The electronic device may be controlled to display a first portion of the content item such as for example on a display associated with the electronic device. For example one or more processors of the electronic device may be configured to access the stored content item and to direct the first portion of the content item to the display for consumption by the user.

As the user consumes the content item on the electronic device the user may direct one or more inputs to the electronic device indicative of a desire to browse additional portions of the content item on the electronic device. The electronic device may for example include various components configured to receive a first input from the user indicative of a desire to browse a second portion of the content item on the electronic device different than the first portion currently being displayed. In response to receiving such a first input the electronic device may display a preview window on the display illustrating the second portion of the content item.

In example embodiments of the present disclosure the preview windows described herein may be useful in a number of different but related applications. For example the preview window may enable the user to browse portions of the content item that are either ahead of or behind the user s current viewing position. Additionally the preview window may enable the user to browse one or more portions of the content item previously bookmarked by the user. Such bookmarked portions of the content item may be for example portions of particular interest to the user portions of particular relevance to the overall theme or plot of the content item and the like. In any of the embodiments described herein such portions of the content item may comprise portions that the user has identified as having a level of importance that is greater than a level of importance associated with the portion of the content item currently being displayed on the device and or being otherwise consumed by the user. As a result the user may bookmark such portions of the content item to identify their heightened level importance and to simplify referring back to such portions at a later time. Moreover the preview window may enable the user to browse one or more portions of the content item recommended to the user by the electronic device. In an embodiment such portions may be recommended by the electronic device based on previous activity by the user. For example the electronic device may recommend such portions of the content item to the user based on a general browsing history of the user activity by the user associated with browsing the content item currently being consumed on the electronic device and or other like metrics.

In each of these applications the preview window may enable the user to browse the second portion of the content item described above as well as a plurality of additional portions of the content item without requiring the user to change his her viewing position. For example while the user is consuming the first portion of the content item on the electronic device the viewing position of the user may be at the particular location e.g. the page paragraph sentence figure or other individual segment of the content item of the first portion in the content item. The viewing position of the user may be maintained at the location of the first portion in the content item while the preview window is displayed and while the user browses various additional portions of the content item via the preview window. In this way the user may browse such additional portions of the content item without losing track of his her progress in consuming the content item.

As will be described below the preview window may be displayed so as to partially overlay the first portion of the content item that is currently being displayed on the electronic device. In such an embodiment the first portion of the content item may remain visible to the user outside of a boundary of the preview window. Thus the displayed first portion may be visible by the user simultaneously with the second portion of the content item illustrated in the preview window. For example the first portion may be at least partially visible on the electronic device outside of the preview window when the preview window is displayed. In this way the first portion and the second portion may be displayed on a display of the electronic device such that a part of the first portion is displayed on the display outside of the window and a remainder of the first portion is obscured by the window. In such an example it is understood the obscured remainder may include the area content and or part of the first portion that would be displayed but for the presence and or display of the window. In this example it may appear to the user viewing the display that the window is disposed on top of or covering the remainder of the first portion such that the remainder is obscured and or otherwise not visible.

Further while the user is consuming the content item on the electronic device the user may direct second third and or additional inputs to the electronic device. For example the user may direct a second input to the electronic device indicative of a desire by the user to view one of the first portion currently being displayed on the electronic device or the second portion currently being illustrated in the preview window. Such a second input may be for example the result of the user browsing the second portion or a plurality of additional portions via the preview window and deciding to either return to the first portion as currently displayed on the electronic device or to jump to a location of the second portion in the content item such that the second portion is displayed on the electronic device in place of the first portion. It is understood that displaying the second portion on the electronic device in place of the first portion in this way may result in moving the viewing position of the user. For example displaying the second portion on the electronic device may move the viewing position of the user from the location of the first portion in the content item to a location of the second portion in the content item. In one embodiment the electronic device may receive a second input from the user indicative of a desire to view the second portion and in response to such a second input the electronic device may display the second portion of the content item on the display of the electronic device with the preview window closed and or otherwise deactivated. In such an embodiment displaying the second portion may move the viewing position of the user from the location of the first portion in the content item to the location of the second portion in the content item.

Further in embodiments in which the preview window is configured to assist the user in browsing various portions of the content item a first input received from the user may include a selection by the user of a browse control displayed and or otherwise provided by the electronic device. For example the electronic device may provide the browse control via the display thereof and selection of the browse control by the user may result in the display of a navigation control. The navigation control may resemble a scrubber bar or other like digital controls enabling the user to move his her viewing position to various different locations in the content item. In one embodiment the navigation control may enable the user to change his her browsing position. Such a browsing position may be analogous to the viewing position described above but may be applicable to and or otherwise correspond to a location of the second portion or other various portion of the content item currently illustrated in the preview window in the content item. Accordingly selection of the browse control by the user may result in display of such a navigation control operable to enable the user to browse the content item via the preview window while the viewing position of the user is maintained. In some embodiments the navigation control may be displayed on the electronic device in response to receiving a first input from the user e.g. a first input comprising selection of the browse control and the preview window may be displayed either concurrently with displaying the navigation control or in response to receiving an additional input from the user indicative of a desire to manipulate and or otherwise adjust the navigation control.

In embodiments of the present disclosure the preview window may be operable to receive one or more inputs from the user and thus may comprise an interactive tool or application for browsing the content item. For example the preview window may be operable to receive an input from the user indicative of a desire to browse an additional portion of the content item in the preview window. In such an embodiment the electronic device may illustrate the desired additional portion of the content item in the preview window in response to such an input. Additionally the electronic device may move a browsing position of the user from a location of the second portion in the content item to a location of the additional desired portion in the content item.

Alternatively and or in addition once the navigation control is displayed the user may provide an additional input that is received at the navigation control and that is indicative of a desire by the user to view an additional portion of the content item by adjusting the navigation control. In such an embodiment the electronic device may illustrate the desired additional portion of the content item in the preview window in response to the additional input while maintaining the viewing position of the user constant.

Moreover the electronic device may provide a search control associated with the various browsing functionality described herein. For example the electronic device may provide a search control associated with the preview window and or the navigation control. In an exemplary embodiment such a search control may resemble a typical search dialog box as known in the art and the search control may enable the user to browse various portions of the content item based on entered search criteria. For example the search control may enable the user to browse portions of the content item sharing a common context characteristic via the preview window. Such a context characteristic may include for example one or more categories genres graphic types text types and or other context based characteristics of content included in the content item.

In further exemplary embodiments in which the preview window is configured to assist the user in browsing portions of the content item that were previously bookmarked by the user the electronic device may be configured to display a bookmark window illustrating one or more bookmark controls. Such bookmark controls may be associated with respective portions of the content item that have been bookmarked by the user during previous consumption of the content item. For example the bookmark window may include a bookmark control associated with the portion of the content item currently illustrated in the preview window whether or not the currently illustrated portion has been previously bookmarked by the user. The bookmark window may also include an additional bookmark control associated with an additional portion of the content item that has been previously bookmarked by the user. Such bookmark controls may enable the user to add for example the portion of the content item currently illustrated in the preview window to the users existing list of bookmarks. Such bookmark controls may also enable the user to view portions of the content item that have already been bookmarked. Accordingly in the embodiments described herein the bookmark window may comprise an interactive tool for browsing portions of the content item previously indicated by the user as being of some importance. For example the bookmark window may be operable to receive an input from the user indicative of a desire to browse a bookmarked portion of the content item via the preview window. For instance the user may select the desired bookmarked portion at the bookmark window from among a list of previously bookmarked portions of the content item. In such an embodiment the electronic device may illustrate the selected bookmarked portion in the preview window in response to such input.

In still further exemplary embodiments the preview window may be configured to assist the user in browsing portions of the content item that have been recommended to the user by components of the electronic device. Such recommendations may be based on previous activity by the user associated with the content item generally and or based on previous activity by the user associated with browsing the content item on the electronic device. In such embodiments the preview window may be configured to illustrate the recommended portion.

As will be described in greater detail below portions of the content item may be recommended to the user in situations in which the user has a browse history characterized by nonlinearly jumping and or otherwise browsing between various spaced portions of the content item. Such nonlinear browsing may include for example browsing a target portion of the content item from an initial portion of the content item wherein the initial portion of the content item is spaced from the target portion by more than one individual segment of the content item. In such an embodiment the electronic device may recommend the target location to the user by providing an indication to the user indicative of the location of the target portion. The user may access and or otherwise browse the recommended portion via the preview window.

In still further embodiments upon browsing the target portion from the initial portion the user may have also browsed a plurality of additional portions of the content item. In such an embodiment each portion of the plurality of additional portions browsed by the user may be spaced from the initial portion by more than one individual segment of the content item. Accordingly in such a situation the electronic device may save in the memory thereof for example a respective location in the content item of each portion of the plurality of additional portions and may provide an indication to the user indicative of at least one of the respective saved locations.

The claimed techniques are described below with reference to an example architecture. However it is to be appreciated that a number of other architectures may also employ these techniques.

In this example the electronic device has a display upon which electronic content such as content items or electronic books may be rendered. The terms content content item and electronic book include essentially any form of electronic data that may be consumed on a device including textual and verbal works comprising sequences of words such as digital books audio books electronic magazines papers journals periodicals documents instructional materials course content website content music movies and so on. In other examples the user may employ electronic devices that do not include a display but rather include speakers or another output device for outputting audio or the like. Additionally the various portions . . . n of the content item may comprise a chapter page paragraph sentence figure or other individual segment of the content item .

The electronic device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer or any other type of electronic device. In some instances the electronic device may be a handheld or other small light weight portable device upon which electronic books and other content can be rendered and conveniently viewed in a manner similar to viewing a paper book. Examples of electronic book readers include flat form factor devices such as tablets pads smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs and the like as well as other types of electronic devices configured to render electronic books e.g. personal computers laptop computers etc. .

In some embodiments the electronic device may comprise a dedicated purpose electronic book reader device having a flat panel display and other characteristics that mimic the look feel and experience offered by paper based books. For example such an electronic book reader devices may have a high contrast flat panel display that appears similar to a printed page and that persist without frequent refreshing. Such displays may consume very negligible amounts of power so that the electronic book reader devices may be used for long periods without recharging or replacing batteries. In some instances these readers may employ electrophoretic displays.

In the example of the electronic device has networking capabilities. For example the electronic device may have a wireless communication interface that allows communication though a network . The wireless communications interfaces may utilize WiFi cellular or other wireless data and networking technologies. The network may be any type of communication network including a local area network a wide area network the Internet a wireless network a wide area network WWAN a cable television network a telephone network a cellular communications network combinations of the foregoing etc.

In the described embodiment the electronic device includes non volatile storage capabilities so that electronic content items can be downloaded and stored in their entirety on the device. In some instances once an electronic book has been stored by an electronic reader it can be displayed and read at any time whether or not the electronic reader is connected to a network. In other embodiments meanwhile the device may stream or otherwise receive content items on demand.

In the configuration illustrated by the electronic device may obtain content items from a content item service and or from any other service. The service and other services may be accessed using the networking capabilities of the electronic device . The service and the other services may be accessible through other means as well such as by connection to intermediary devices like personal computers different types of mobile devices and so forth.

In the content item service is illustrated as a network based or cloud based service available over a public network such as the Internet. The electronic device may be configured to allow the user to conveniently browse for content and content items from the service and to purchase and download selected content items from the service .

Various applications and user interfaces may be used in conjunction with the electronic device to interact with the service such as Internet browser programs that allow a user to interactively engage different online services. In addition the service may expose lower level interfaces or APIs application programming interfaces through the network through which devices and programs can access the underlying functionality of the service without direct user interaction.

The service might be implemented in some embodiments by an online merchant or vendor. Electronic books and other electronic content might be offered for sale by such an online merchant or might be available to members or subscribers for some type of periodic or one time fee. In some circumstances electronic books or other content might be made available without charge. In either instance the service may include a client interface through which the electronic device and other devices interact with the service . The client interface may include a virtual storefront or other type of online interface for interaction with consumers and or devices. The client interface may expose a graphical web based user interface that can be accessed by human users to browse and obtain e.g. purchase rent lease etc. content items such as electronic books. The client interface may also expose programmatic interfaces or APIs that entities and devices can use to obtain digital content items and related services. In the illustrated example the user may have utilized the web based user interface or the APIs to obtain the content item being rendered by the display .

As shown in . In an example embodiment the electronic device may be operable to display a first portion of the content item via the display . Additionally electronic device may be operable to display a preview window via the display . In one example second third and or additional portions . . . n of the content item may be illustrated in the preview window . The preview window may be positioned at any desirable location on the display and may be movable for convenience of the user. In one example the preview window may be disposed so as to partially overlay the first portion displayed on the display . In such an embodiment the first portion may remain visible outside of the preview window simultaneously with the second third and or additional portions . . . n illustrated in the preview window . For example the preview window may overlay the first portion such that the first portion is at least partially visible outside of the preview window as the second third and or additional portion . . . n is illustrated in the preview window . In an example embodiment the first portion and the second third and or additional portion . . . n may be displayed on the display of the electronic device such that a part of the first portion is displayed on the display outside of the window and a remainder of the first portion is obscured by the window . In such an example it is understood the obscured remainder may include the area content and or part of the first portion that would be displayed on the display but for the presence and or display of the window thereon. In this example it may appear to the user viewing the display that the window is disposed on top of or covering the remainder of the first portion such that the remainder is obscured and or otherwise not visible.

In some instances the electronic device may include non volatile storage that stores the currently rendered content item while in other instances the content item may be stored remotely from the electronic device. For instance the content item service may store in non volatile storage these items in association with an account of the electronic device and or the user . Furthermore in some instances the electronic device may locally store a portion of the content items previously acquired by the user while the service or another remote entity may store in an account of the user or the device other content items that the user has previously acquired. The non volatile storage may store multiple different content items for consumption by various users and in example embodiments the device may simultaneously display more than one content item to the user . For example the device may be controlled such that the first portion displayed on the display is from a first content item e.g. a first book and the second portion illustrated in the preview window is from a second content item e.g. a second book different than the first content item .

Furthermore illustrates that the electronic device or the content item service may store user data accessible to the electronic device . The user data may include a browse history a user profile and or any other type of data associated with the user and or various activities of the user associated with use of the electronic device . As with the other items discussed above the electronic device may store the user data locally or the electronic device may access the user data at the service or another remote entity e.g. over the network .

In one configuration the electronic device includes one or more processors and memory . Depending on the configuration of the electronic device the memory may be a type of computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory. Thus the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or any other medium which can be used to store media items or applications and data which can be accessed by the electronic device .

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable on the processors . In many embodiments these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processors and that implement operational logic for performing the actions attributed above to the electronic device . In addition the memory may store various types of data that are referenced by executable programs. Furthermore it is noted that while the components described below are illustrated as residing on the device in some embodiments some or all of these components may reside remote from the device . For instance some or all of these components may reside on the content item service and or another server that may perform some or all of the operations described herein.

As discussed above the memory may store one or more content items e.g. the content item illustrated in as well as various data e.g. the user data illustrated in . Further the memory may store a browsing module including a plurality of components or sub modules. The browsing module may be executable on the one or more processors of the electronic device and the browsing module may be configured to perform operations in response to one or more components of the electronic device receiving one or more inputs from the user. As will be described in greater detail below the browsing module and its components may function to control operation of the preview window and the various browsing navigation searching bookmarking history recommendation and or other operations associated with the preview window . The memory may also store an operating system a content presentation application and a user interface UI module . The content presentation application may function to output content on the device. For instance the application may display visual content on a display audible content on a speaker and the like.

The UI module meanwhile facilitates user operation of the electronic device . For instance the UI module may provide menus and other navigational tools to facilitate selection and rendering of content items. The UI module may further include a browser or other application that facilitates access to sites over a network such as websites or online merchants or other sources of electronic content items or other products.

As illustrated in the example browsing module includes a preview component a navigation component a bookmark component and a history component . In the various embodiments described herein one or more of the components of the browsing module may cooperate to provide functionality to the electronic device . In particular such components of the browsing module may cooperate to control various operations of the preview window in response to the electronic device receiving one or more inputs from the user. The browsing module may include additional or fewer components than those described in and in some embodiments the various processes functions and or operations described with respect to the device may be performed by any of the components of the browsing module in conjunction with the one or more processors .

In one embodiment the preview component of the browsing module may be configured to generate the preview window for viewing by the user on the electronic device . In an exemplary embodiment the navigation component may assist the preview component in generating the preview window . For example the navigation component may be configured to generate a navigation control on the electronic device such as on the display shown in in response to a first input received from the user . In such embodiments the preview component may be configured to generate the preview window either concurrently with generation of the navigation control or in response to receiving an additional input from the user indicative of a desire to adjust the navigation control generated by the navigation component . Accordingly in such embodiments the navigation control may be displayed on the electronic device in response to the first input. Likewise the preview window may be displayed either concurrently with displaying the navigation control or in response to receiving the additional input from the user . Further in such embodiments the preview component may provide the preview window to the display for display thereon and the navigation component may provide navigation control to the display for display thereon.

The preview component may also be configured to populate and or otherwise direct various portions of the content item to the preview window for illustration therein. For example the preview component may facilitate illustration of the second third and or additional portions . . . n of the content item in the preview window in response to corresponding inputs received from the user . In each of the embodiments described herein the preview component may enable the user to browse various portions of the content item while maintaining a viewing position of the user at a location of the first portion in the content item . The preview component may also enable the user to browse various portions of different content items while maintaining the user s viewing position at the location of the first portion in the content item .

The navigation component may assist the preview component in facilitating browsing of the various portions of the content item . Further in embodiments in which the electronic device is controlled to simultaneously display two or more different content items e.g. a first book and a second book different than the first book the navigation component may assist the preview component in facilitating browsing the various portions of the different content items . For example as will be described in greater detail below the navigation control generated by the navigation component may include one or more controls configured to assist the user in browsing the second third and or additional portions . . . n via the preview window . In such embodiments the navigation component may provide functionality to such controls. Additionally the preview window may be configured to receive one or more inputs directly from the user . In such embodiments such inputs may assist the user in browsing the second third and or additional portions . . . n via the preview window and the navigation component may cooperate with the preview component to provide such functionality. Further as will be described below the preview window may include one or more search controls enabling the user to browse various portions of the content item sharing a common context characteristic via the preview window . In such embodiments one or both of the preview component and the navigation component may provide such searching functionality to the search controls. Such a context characteristic may include for example one or more categories genres graphic types text types and or other context based characteristics of content included in the content item .

The bookmark component may be configured to provide a portion of the content item that was previously identified tagged and or otherwise bookmarked by the user for viewing in the preview window . For example the bookmark component may be configured to generate a bookmark window on the electronic device . In such embodiments the bookmark component may generate the bookmark window in response to receipt of an input from the user indicative of a desire to view the previously bookmarked portion of the content item . In such embodiments the bookmark window may include a bookmark control associated with a second portion of the content item currently illustrated in the preview window as well as one or more additional bookmark controls associated with the respective previously bookmarked portions of the content item . In such embodiments the bookmark component may provide functionality to the bookmark window the various bookmark controls illustrated therein and the one or more controls associated with the bookmark controls. Further it is understood that the bookmark component may provide the bookmark window and the various bookmark controls to the display of the electronic device for display thereon. It is understood that such bookmarked portions of the content item may comprise portions . . . that the user has identified as having a level of importance that is greater than a level of importance associated with the first portion of the content item currently being displayed on the display and or being otherwise consumed by the user . For example the user may consider the first portion to have a first or relatively moderate level of importance to the overall theme plot or context of the content item . The user may however consider the second portion to have a second or relatively high level of importance to the overall theme plot or context of the content item . As a result the user may bookmark the second portion of the content item to identify its heightened level importance and to simplify referring back to the second portion and or additional bookmarked portions at a later time.

The history component may be configured to recommend a portion of the content item to the user for viewing in the preview window based on previous activity by the user associated with the content item . The history component may also recommend such portions of the content item to the user in response to input received from the user indicative of a desire by the user to browse various additional portions of the content item . In one embodiment the history component may recommend a portion of the content item to the user by identifying the recommended portion to the user via the preview window and or the display .

The history component may recommend such portions of the content item to the user based on a number of different factors. For example the history component may recommend such portions of the content item to the user based on a general browsing history of the user activity by the user associated with browsing viewing and or otherwise navigating the content item currently being consumed on the electronic device and or other like metrics. In one embodiment such portions of the content item may be recommended to the user in situations in which the user has a browse history characterized by nonlinearly jumping and or otherwise browsing and or otherwise navigating between various portions of the content item . Such nonlinear browsing may include for example browsing and or otherwise navigating to a target portion of the content item from an initial portion of the content item e.g. a starting location wherein the initial portion of the content item is spaced from the target portion by more than one individual segment of the content item .

For example if the user is consuming an electronic book on the device including a map located in an Appendix at the end of the book the user may periodically jump browse and or otherwise navigate to the Appendix in order to view the map i.e. such that the map and or other portions of the Appendix are displayed in the preview window and may then return to the initial portion of the content item currently being consumed. Since the Appendix may be spaced from the initial portion of the content item by many pages such browsing may constitute nonlinear browsing and or navigation. In such an embodiment the electronic device may save in the memory thereof for example a location in the content item of the target portion previously navigated to by the user and may recommend the target location to the user by providing an indication to the user indicative of the location of the target portion previously navigated to. Such an indication may comprise a list of such locations one or more controls identifying such locations a grouping of thumbnails or other like icons and the like. As noted above the user may access and or otherwise browse the recommended portion of the content item via the preview window and the history component may cooperate with the preview component to provide such functionality. In particular the history component may cooperate with the preview component and or the navigation component to display in the preview window one or more portions of the content item previously navigated to by the user from one or more corresponding respective initial portions of the content item .

In still further embodiments upon browsing and or navigating to the target portion from the initial portion the user may have also browsed and or navigated to a plurality of additional portions . . . of the content item . In such an embodiment each portion of the plurality of additional portions . . . browsed and or navigated to by the user may be spaced from the initial portion by more than one individual segment of the content item . Accordingly in such a situation the history component may save in the memory of the electronic device for example a respective location in the content item of each portion of the plurality of additional portions . . . and may provide an indication to the user indicative of at least one of the respective saved locations.

While the above description provides various examples of the operations that may be performed by the components of the browsing module it is understood that additional operations may be performed by these components as described throughout the present disclosure.

As illustrated the electronic device may further include a display upon which the content items may be displayed and the preview window may be illustrated. In one implementation the display uses electronic paper display technology. In general an electronic paper display is one that has a high resolution 150 dpi or better and is bi stable meaning that it is capable of holding text or other rendered images even when very little or no power is supplied to the display. The electronic paper display technology may also exhibit high contrast substantially equal to that of print on paper. Some example electronic paper displays that may be used with the implementations described herein include bi stable LCDs MEMS cholesteric pigmented electrophoretic electrowetting displays and others. One exemplary electronic paper display that may be used is an E Ink brand display. Touch sensitive technology may be overlaid or integrated with the electronic paper display technology to enable user input via contact or proximity to the screen.

The electronic device may further be equipped with various input output I O devices . Such devices may include various user interface controls e.g. buttons joystick keyboard etc. audio speaker connection ports and so forth. In some instances a user of the electronic device utilizes one or more of the input devices to select portions of content items rendered on the display and or to provide one or more inputs. The UI module may receive indications of these selections and or may receive such inputs and may in turn pass these indications and or inputs to the one or more processors the browsing module other components of the memory and or other components of the device .

Furthermore the device may include a network interface which may support both wired and wireless connection to various networks such as cellular networks radio WiFi networks short range networks e.g. Bluetooth IR and so forth. The network interface facilitates receiving electronic books and other content as described herein.

The electronic device may also include a battery and power control unit . The power control unit operatively controls an amount of power or electrical energy consumed by the electronic device . Actively controlling the amount of power consumed by the electronic device may achieve more efficient use of electrical energy stored by the battery.

The electronic device may have additional features or functionality. For example the electronic device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. The additional data storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

With reference to the illustrated UI includes the content item that the user is currently consuming. In particular the display of the electronic device displays a first portion of the content item and the first portion is displayed by the display while a second portion is illustrated in the preview window . As shown in the preview window partially overlays the first portion such that the first portion remains visible outside of the preview window simultaneously with the second portion illustrated in the preview window . Further as noted above the various portions . . . described herein may be from the same content item or from different content items .

The UI illustrated in includes a plurality of controls operable on the display . For example a browse control may be resident on the display and configured to receive one or more inputs from the user . It is understood that as referred to throughout this disclosure the one or more inputs received by the electronic device from the user may include one of a non contact based gesture a contact based gesture an audible command or any other like action by the user directed at activating operating or controlling the device . Accordingly the browse control may be configured to receive one or more such inputs directly via a touch screen or other like component of the display . In an example embodiment a non contact based gesture may include one or more hand motions with one or both hands proximate the device but not contacting the device and indicative of a function or operation to be performed by the device . For instance an example non contact based gesture may include movement of the user s hand of finger from right to left proximate the display to indicate turning a page of the content item . Additionally a contact based gesture may include one or more hand motions with one or both hands indicative of a function or operation to be performed by the device wherein the user s hand s contact the device during the gesture. For instance an example contact based gesture may include placing a finger in contact with the display and moving the finger from right to left while the finger maintains contact with the display . Such an example contact based gesture may indicate turning a page of the content item . Further an audible command may include one or more spoken words from the user indicative of a function or operation to be performed by the device . For instance an example audible command may include the user saying turn the page while the user is within an audible range of the device . Such an example audible command may indicate turning a page of the content item .

For example the one or more processors and or other components of the electronic device may receive a first input from the user indicative of a desire by the user to browse one or more portions . . . of the content item such as the second portion . It is understood that example inputs received from the user may comprise various requests and or commands associated with the content item the portions . . . of the content item that are either being displayed or that are to be displayed navigation to different locations within the content item searches to be performed bookmarks browse histories of the user and or any of the components functions or operations of the electronic device . For example an input received from the user may comprise a request to display the window displaying the second portion a request to display the second portion on the display without the window e.g. with the window closed and or selection or manipulation of any of the controls described herein.

In example embodiments the first input may comprise selection of the browse control on the display and selection of the browse control may result in display of a navigation control on the display . As noted above the navigation control may be displayed on the electronic device in response to such a first input and the preview window may be displayed either concurrently with displaying the navigation control or in response to receiving an additional input from the user indicative of a desire to adjust the navigation control . For instance once the navigation control is displayed the user may press swipe and or otherwise attempt to manipulate various components of the navigation control in order to browse the various portions of the content item in the preview window . Further portions . . . of different content items can be accessed selected or otherwise browsed in the preview window by manipulating the browse control the navigation control or other like controls of the electronic device .

The navigation control may include one or more components operable to enable the user browse the content item via the preview window while the viewing position of the user is maintained e.g. held constant on the display . For example the navigation control may include a first control enabling the user to browse in the preview window from the second portion illustrated therein to an additional portion of the content item with a first level of granularity. For example the first control may resemble a scrubber bar a slider a progress indicator and or other like control mechanism. In such embodiments the first control may be moved horizontally vertically and or otherwise linearly by the user to affect a corresponding change in the browsing position of the user in the content item . For example in the embodiment of moving the first control to the right may move the browsing position of the user from the location of the second portion in the content item e.g. page 231 of 356 to a location of an additional portion closer to the end of the content item . Conversely moving the first control to the left may move the browsing position of the user from the location of the second portion to a location of an additional portion closer to the beginning of the content item . However using the first control to browse the content item may be cumbersome in some applications due to the inherent lack of accuracy associated with such first controls .

Accordingly in one embodiment the navigation control may further include a second control identified as second controls enabling the user to browse in the preview window from the second portion to the additional portion of the content item with a second level of granularity greater than the first level of granularity associated with the first control . For example the second control may enable the user to browse the content item page by page paragraph by paragraph sentence by sentence figure by figure equation by equation or in any other like text based or context based manner.

In exemplary embodiments the UI may also include one or more identifiers assisting the user in determining a current viewing position and or browsing position. In any of the embodiments described herein the various identifiers of the present disclosure may comprise respective indications indicative of locations of the displayed portions . . . in the content item . For example the display may illustrate an identifier indicative of a location of the first portion in the content item . In particular the identifier may illustrate a page number percentage indicator and or any other like indication of the viewing position of the user at and or otherwise corresponding to the location of the first portion in the content item . For example in the context of the electronic book displayed on the UI of such a viewing position of the user may comprise a page of the electronic book determined at a current font size setting associated with the displayed first portion . In such an embodiment the viewing position of the user may correspond to the page number indicated by the identifier . Further it is understood that the first portion may be displayed on the display having a first font size and the second portion may be illustrated in the preview window with a second font size different than the first font size. For example as shown in the second font size may be smaller than the first font size. In such embodiments moving the viewing position of the user from the location of the first portion to the location of the second portion may result in displaying the second portion on the display with and or having the first font size.

In further embodiments the UI may include additional identifiers indicative of a location of the second portion in the content item . Again such identifiers may comprise indications indicative of respective locations of the second portion and or of the additional portions in the content item . For example as shown in an identifier may be provided on the display and a corresponding identifier may be illustrated in the preview window . Each of the identifiers may be for example indicative of a location of the second portion in the content item . For example the identifiers may be indicative of the browsing position of the user at and or otherwise corresponding to the location of the second portion in the content item . In such embodiments the identifiers may each convey different location information. For example the identifier may provide chapter context and or other broad location information while the identifier may provide information indicative of the page number of the second portion illustrated in the preview window and or other more narrowly defined location information. In further embodiments it is understood that any additional location and or context information associated with the various corresponding portions of the content item may be provided by the identifiers described herein. It is also understood that in embodiments in which the display displays identifiers and or other indications indicative for example the location of respective displayed portions . . . in the content item such indications may include for example progress bars page numbers pie charts chapter numbers chapter names appendix names and or other like information.

Moreover as noted above the preview window may comprise an interactive tool and or application operable on the electronic device to enable user browse various portions of the content item . While the various components of the navigation control may be configured to assist the user in browsing the content item in further embodiments the preview window may be configured to receive one or more inputs from the user directly thereby enabling the user to browse the content item via the preview window without adjusting the navigation control . For example the one or more processors browsing module and or other components of the electronic device may receive one or more inputs from the user at the preview window . Such inputs may be indicative of a desire by the user to browse one or more additional portions of the content item via the preview window and such additional portions of the content item may be different than for example the second portion currently illustrated in the preview window . In such embodiments such additional inputs may comprise one or more finger swipes hand gestures and or other like inputs on for example a touch screen of the display and within a boundary of the preview window . In such an embodiment the browsing position of the user may be moved from the location of the second portion in the content item to the location of the additional portion of the content item such that the additional portion of the content item is illustrated in the preview window in response to such input. Additionally in such embodiments the first portion may continue to be at least partially visible outside of the preview window as the additional portion of the content item is illustrated in the preview window .

It is understood that the preview window may provide further functionality to the user as desired. For example the preview window may also include a control configured to open close minimize enlarge and or change the shape size or location of the preview window provided on the display . Additionally the preview window may include a search control provided by for example the preview component the navigation component the one or more processors and or other components of the electronic device . In such embodiments the search control may comprise one or more data entry fields configured to receive or select text graphics contextual items and or other inputs. Accordingly the search control may enable the user to browse portions of the content item sharing a common context characteristic via the preview window . Such a context characteristic may include for example one or more categories genres graphic types text types image types equation types table types and or other context based characteristics of content included in the content item . Accordingly the search control may enable the user to browse navigate and or search for content contained within the content item utilizing contextual search criteria. For example the search control may enable the user to browse via the preview window all portions of the content item including the identified context characteristic or search criteria. As noted above in each of the embodiments disclosed herein the device may maintain the viewing position of the user at the location of the first portion in the content item while the second third and or additional portions . . . of the content item are illustrated in the preview window .

The UI shown in includes a preview window configured to enable the user to browse one or more portions . . . of the content item that were previously bookmarked by the user such as during previous consumption of the bookmarked portions by the user . Such bookmarked portions may be of particular importance to the user and the preview window may illustrate one or more of the bookmarked portions while the original viewing position of the user is maintained. For example in the hypothetical situation described above in which the user is consuming an electronic book on the device and the electronic book includes a map located in an Appendix the user may tag and or otherwise bookmark the page of the Appendix including the map and may then return to the portion e.g. the first portion of the content item currently being consumed. The preview window of the present disclosure may enable the user to browse the bookmarked map page after returning to the portion of the content item currently being consumed while maintaining the viewing position of the user at the location of the first portion .

As shown in an example UI including a preview window configured to assist in browsing bookmarked portions of the content item may include a bookmark control similar in function to the browse control described above with respect to . For example the bookmark control may be configured to receive one or more inputs from the user via the display indicative of a desire to view a bookmarked portion e.g. a second third and or additional portion . . . n as shown in of the content item . Such inputs may be received for example by the one or more processors the bookmark component and or other components of the electronic device via the bookmark control and or a bookmark window .

For example the bookmark window may be displayed on the display of the electronic device and the bookmark window may include one or more bookmark controls collectively bookmark controls associated with respective bookmarked portions of the content item . Accordingly the bookmark window may comprise a list of the portions of the content item previously bookmarked by the user and each such bookmarked portion may be represented by a corresponding one of the bookmark controls . As shown in the bookmark window may overlay at least one of the first portion and the preview window such that the first portion and the second portion are at least partially visible outside of the bookmark window simultaneously with at least one of the bookmark controls illustrated in the bookmark window .

In one embodiment the bookmark window may illustrate a bookmark control associated with the second portion currently illustrated in the preview window . As shown in such a bookmark control may be shaded uniquely colored and or may include any other applicable indicator operable to identify a relationship between the bookmark control and the second portion . Additionally one or more of the bookmark controls may include identifiers indicative of the location of the respective bookmarked portion in the content item . In such embodiments such indicators may provide further identification of a relationship between for example one of the bookmark controls and the second portion .

In one embodiment the bookmark window may further illustrate a bookmark control associated with the first portion currently being displayed on the electronic device at the display . In such an embodiment the bookmark control associated with the first portion may include one or more controls associated with saving the bookmark control in the bookmark window . For example such a bookmark control may include an add control operable to bookmark the first portion and to thereby add the bookmark control to the bookmark window . Such a bookmark control may also include one or more of the identifiers described above and indicative of a location of the first portion in the content item .

In another embodiment the bookmark window may further illustrate one or more bookmark controls associated with third and or additional portions of the content item previously bookmarked by the user . In such embodiments the bookmark window the one or more processors the bookmark component and or other components of the electronic device may receive an additional input from the user indicative of a desire to browse for example the third and or additional portions of the content item previously bookmarked by the user . In such embodiments such components of the device may in conjunction with the display illustrate at least one of the third and or additional portions of the content item in the preview window in response to the input. It is understood that similar to the preview window the bookmark window may comprise an interactive tool component and or application of the electronic device . Accordingly the bookmark window may be configured to receive such inputs directly from the user such as for example by tapping swiping and or otherwise contacting a touch screen associated with the display . Further while the at least one of the third and or additional portions of the content item is illustrated in the preview window the viewing position of the user at the location of the first portion in the content item may be maintained.

As illustrated in one or more of the bookmark controls illustrated in the bookmark window may include various controls operable to provide functionality to the respective bookmark control . For example one or more of the bookmark controls may include at least one of a close control operable to close the preview window a delete control operable to remove the respective bookmark control from the bookmark window the shading or unique color described above and or any other like indication that the second portion of the content item is currently being illustrated in the preview window or one or more of the identifiers indicative of the location of the second portion in the content item .

Additionally to assist the user in browsing the various bookmarked portions of the content item with efficiency the one or more processors and or the bookmark component of the electronic device may sort tag categorize and or otherwise group the various bookmarked portions of the content item . For example the bookmark window may illustrate a plurality of bookmark controls grouped based on a common context characteristic shared by respective portions of the content item corresponding to each bookmark control of the plurality of bookmark controls . For example the bookmark controls may be grouped based on any of the context characteristics described herein and in an exemplary embodiment the bookmark window may further illustrate a group name and or other like indicator identifying one or more groups of bookmark controls illustrated in the bookmark window . Additionally although illustrates the bookmark window as comprising a relatively standardized list of bookmark controls in further embodiments the bookmark controls may be arranged as thumbnails or in any other known configuration in the bookmark window to facilitate relatively streamlined access by the user . In each of the embodiments described herein one or more of the bookmark controls or an additional control associated with the UI illustrated in may enable the user to enter and or edit metadata associated with the bookmark controls of the bookmark window . For example by providing an input e.g. by pushing and holding one of the bookmark controls on a touchscreen of the display the user may cause an interactive edit control not shown to be displayed on the display . The user may tag or group various bookmark controls edit the text or other context based content shown in each bookmark control e.g. associate a name or other unique identifier with the bookmark control and or otherwise modify the appearance or information associated with each bookmark control using such an interactive edit control.

As shown in a UI configured to enable the user to browse one or more portions . . . of the content item recommended to the user by the electronic device includes a preview window configured to illustrate the recommended portions . . . of the content item while the viewing position of the user is maintained at a location of the first portion in the content item . In such an embodiment an example UI may include a history control similar in function to the browse control and bookmark control described above. For example the history control may be configured to receive one or more inputs from the user via the display indicative of a desire to view one or more portions e.g. a second third and or additional portion . . . n as shown in of the content item recommended by the history component . Such inputs may be received for example by the one or more processors the history component and or other components of the electronic device via the history control and or a touch screen or other like component associated with the display .

As noted above the history component may recommend such portions of the content item to the user based on a number of different variables including a general browsing history of the user activity by the user associated with browsing the content item currently being consumed on the electronic device and or other like metrics. Further such portions of the content item may be recommended to the user in situations in which the user has a browse history characterized by nonlinearly jumping and or otherwise browsing between various portions of the content item . In order to recommend such portions of the content item to the user the history component may store and or otherwise save in the memory a respective location in the content item of each portion nonlinearly browsed by the user . For example although the user may not have explicitly bookmarked such portions the history component may identify such portions as being implicitly important to the user based on the manner or context in which the user previously browsed such portions.

The history component the one or more processors and or other components of the electronic device may provide an indication to the user of at least one of the recommended portions and or locations in any number of ways. For example the UI may include a back control and a forward control . Such controls may enable the user easily toggle between the various recommended portions of the content item . It is understood that such portions may be illustrated in the preview window upon manipulation of the controls . It is also understood that one or both of the controls may include text graphics and or other information identifying the location of the recommended portion in the content item to the user . The text graphics and or other information of the controls may also assist in summarizing the content associated with each respective recommended portion.

The UI illustrated in may also be operable to utilize information related to the types of content previously browsed by the user in the content item . For example if the user previously browsed several portions of the content item including contextually similar content the history component may be configured to recommend additional portions of the content item to the user including matching content. For example the history component may be configured to identify a common context characteristic shared by at least a subset of a plurality of portions of the content item previously browsed by the user . In such a process any of the context characteristics described herein may be utilized by the history component in such analysis. The history component may then identify at least one contextually similar portion of the content item that has not been previously browsed by the user and may recommend the at least one contextually similar portion to the user . In particular the history component may identify one or more portions of the content item that are characterized by the common context characteristic and may provide an indication to the user indicative of the at least one contextually similar portion of the content item .

In still other embodiments the history component may be configured to predict which portion or portions of the content item the user may want to browse based on content included in the first portion currently being displayed by the display in addition to content included in portions of the content item that the user has previously nonlinearly browsed. For example the hypothetical electronic book discussed herein may contain an Appendix including 100 maps and the user may currently be consuming a first portion on the display including content related to South Africa. Further the user may have previously nonlinearly browsed several of the maps in the Appendix illustrating various maps of the African continent. In such a situation the history component may recommend one or more portions of the electronic book comprising a subset of maps illustrative of South African cities. Such a recommendation may be different and likely more relevant than simply recommending all 100 maps in the Appendix based solely on the user s previous nonlinear browsing history. Accordingly in such an example the history component may identify a common context characteristic shared by a first portion of the content item currently being displayed by the electronic device and at least a subset of a plurality of additional portions . In such an embodiment the history component may also identify at least one contextually similar portion of the content item not previously browsed by the user wherein the at least one contextually similar portion of the content item is characterized by the common context characteristic described above. The history component may then provide an indication to the user indicative of the at least one contextually similar portion.

Moreover it is understood that user data associated with a plurality of additional users may be useful in providing recommendations to the user of the electronic device . For example the history component may be able to make more relevant recommendations to the user based on knowledge of typical nonlinear browsing patterns exhibited by additional users. Accordingly the history component may assist in storing user data associated with browsing histories and or browsing patterns of the user . Such user data may be stored globally at the content item service . As additional user data is obtained from a plurality of additional users the volume of user data saved at the content item service may increase. This user data may be periodically analyzed and or distributed to the various electronic devices connected to the content item service for use in recommending portions of the content item to the individual users . For example a second third and or additional portion . . . n of the content item may be recommended to the user by the history component and or the one or more processors based on previous activity by a plurality of users associated with the content item as evidenced by such global user data .

As shown in at one or more processors and or other components of the device may access a content item that has been stored in memory of the electronic device . In alternative embodiment it is understood that the content item may be stored in storage associated with content item service and in such an embodiment the content item may be accessed by the electronic device via the network .

At the electronic device may display a first portion of the content item . For example the electronic device may display the first portion on a display of the electronic device associated with the one or more processors of the device . At the device and or components thereof may receive a first input from a user of the electronic device associated with a second portion of the content item different than the first portion . For example at components of the device may receive the first input from the user indicative of a desire of the user to browse the second portion on the display .

At the device may display a preview window illustrating the second portion of the content item . For example the preview window may partially overlay the first portion such that the first portion remains visible outside of the preview window simultaneously with the second portion illustrated in the preview window . Additionally the electronic device may maintain a viewing position of the user at a location of the first portion in the content item while the second portion is illustrated.

In still further embodiments the second portion may include one of a portion of the content item previously bookmarked by the user or a portion of the content item recommended to the user by for example the one or more processors and or the history component based on previous activity by the user associated with browsing the content item on the electronic device .

At the device may receive a second input from the user . In an exemplary embodiment in the second input may be indicative of a desire by the user to view the second portion . Additionally at the electronic device may display one of the first and second portions of the content item in response to the second input received at .

Note that the various techniques described above are assumed in the given examples to be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions or software such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Other architectures may be used to implement the described functionality and are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. Furthermore although specific distributions of responsibilities are defined above for purposes of discussion the various functions and responsibilities might be distributed and divided in different ways depending on particular circumstances.

Similarly software may be stored and distributed in various ways and using different means and the particular software storage and execution configurations described above may be varied in many different ways. Thus software implementing the techniques described above may be distributed on various types of computer readable media not limited to the forms of memory that are specifically described.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims. For example the methodological acts need not be performed in the order or combinations described herein and may be performed in any combination of one or more acts.

