---

title: Seating assembly having a seat-mounted attachment assembly for adjustable extension arm
abstract: A seating assembly is described with a seat member, attached to which is an attachment assembly which can support adjustable arms that support a work surface. The seat member attachment or attachment assembly is includes a plate and a seat mounting assembly. A first adjustable arm is attached to the seat member by a first connecting means. The attachment assembly includes a seat bar member that can be fixed to the seat member and mounting assembly to permit rotation of the adjustable arms around an axis that is perpendicular to the seat member. The mounting assembly has a male component that is adapted to mate with a female component in the first connecting means and a plate member that attaches to the bar member. The first adjustable arm is connected to a second adjustable arm by a second connecting means that allows rotational and pivotal articulation or universal rotation of the second adjustable arm which supports a work surface that is adapted for example for a portable device such as by way of example a computer tablet. The seating device also allows the user to change from a seated to a standing position without removing components from the seating assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955905&OS=08955905&RS=08955905
owner: Neutral Posture, Inc.
number: 08955905
owner_city: Bryan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130607
---
The invention relates to a seating assembly with one or more adjustable extension arms attachable to a seat member of the seating device to hold a support structure adapted to provide a work surface. More particularly this invention relates to a seating device with an adjustable extension arm assembly that is mounted on the seat member of the seating device to support a portable device such as computer component tablet computer or reading material. The seating device allows a user to rotate and pivot the support structure between a horizontal and a vertical stand so as to manipulate the portable device such as to type on the tablet or to view the screen of the tablet. The seating device also allows the user to change from a seated to a standing position without removing the support structure from the seating device.

In the workplace providing a work station that is user friendly and flexible is important. The increased use of portable devices such as technology related devices necessitates work surfaces be adapted to allow the use of said devices for all their intended purposes such as for writing or for reading or inputting information.

In the workplace persons are often required to perform repetitive manual tasks in a sedentary position. By maintaining a sedentary position throughout the workday the person can become fatigued without proper support. Remaining in that sedentary position may reduce blood flow through the legs as well. Utilizing ergonomic principles when designing furniture may increase worker productivity decrease worker fatigue and absenteeism decrease injuries improve wellness and improve blood flow throughout the body.

It is known in the workstation design industry that by varying a person s body position fatigue is reduced. Without changing positions periodically proper circulation is hampered. By changing body positions at multiple times throughout the day a person can reduce stress and increase productivity.

One desirable way of changing body position is for a worker to switch from a seated to a standing position. Alternating from a seated to a standing position facilitates blood flow through the legs which helps prevent fatigue and improves worker comfort. This sit and stand method of reducing worker fatigue is known in the furniture design field.

Several attempts at providing a comfortable work surface for a seated person are known. For example it is known in the workplace design industry that it is possible to provide keyboard supports for use by a person in a seated position. For example the approach of Trimnell described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 893 607 utilizes a computer keyboard holder attached to a chair. Trimnell s keyboard holder attaches to the chair legs and is for use by a person in the seated position not the standing position. Alternatively U.S. Pat. No. 4 779 922 to Cooper describes a chair with a built in computer workstation. U.S. Pat. No. 5 104 073 to VanBeek describes the holder in front of a chair to reduce the chance of the user incurring repetitive stress injuries. U.S. Pat. No. 5 452 950 to Crenshaw describes a school desk computer workstation while Dearing U.S. Pat. No. 5 490 710 describes the holder built into a chair arm.

Commercial products such as X TENSION ARM by Cal Trak Inc. of Broomfield Colo. and ERGOREST by Ergonomic Design Inc. of Northglenn Colo. are available which provide for the attachment of a keyboard support to a chair the support being mounted at a given height for a seated user. It is also known to use flexible tubing arms for holding a support structure such as in a desk lamp. However known commercially available flexible tubing lacks structural rigidity and has been shown not to be able to hold a support structure. However if flexible technology improves utilizing flexible technology could be used in an embodiment of this invention as would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

In each of these approaches the holder is designed for one position of a user generally seated. None describe a system for providing a support for use by a person standing near a chair. Further when a user is practicing those prior designs but would like to stand to take advantage of the sit and stand principle modifications to the work area would be required. For instance combining two prior design support systems could possibly be used to accommodate different user positions.

It is known to provide two computer apparatus supports at one workstation one permanently mounted at a height suitable to a person in a seated position and one permanently mounted at a height suitable to a person in a standing position. However the addition of another piece of furniture in the work area is not desirable in many space limited workplace designs. Further the same keyboard mouse and or computer may be utilized by multiple workers throughout the day. Therefore it is desirable to have accessory supports which are capable of adjusting to the different depths angles and heights to accommodate the differently statured individuals who may utilize the same computer support.

It is known to provide adjustable full motion rotatable floor stands for tablet computers which are free standing separate accessories for use by a person in a chair in bed or on a couch. Commercial products include the T0 HS01 Easy Adjustable Full Motion Floor Stand by TAO TRONICS and the Deluxe Floor Stand for Tablet Computers by LEVO. However some of these devices are not compliant with workplace industry standards such as BIFMA Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association and therefore it is advantageous to have portable device attachable to a seating assembly to minimize the amount of furniture in the workspace as described above.

It is also known to provide one device that is mountable to a chair at various locations such that the sit and stand principle may be employed. For instance U.S. Pat. No. 6 604 786 to Benden et al. issued Aug. 12 2003 incorporated by reference in its entirety herein and commonly owned by the present assignee Neutral Posture Inc. of Bryan Tex. describes using a support apparatus that is removably attachable to an armrest of a chair the back of a chair or to a desk. In this way accessories such as a computer keyboard and or a mouse can be utilized by a person seated in the chair or standing near the chair. When the apparatus is attached to the back of the chair the apparatus may be utilized by a person in a standing position. The height of the apparatus may be adjusted by adjusting the height of the chair.

It is also known to provide a vertical adjustment apparatus for a keyboard such that the sit and stand principle may be employed. For instance U.S. Pat. No. 7 048 236 to Benden et al. issued May 23 2006 incorporated by reference in its entirety herein and commonly owned by the present assignee Neutral Posture Inc. of Bryan Tex. describes using a support apparatus for a keyboard that is attachable to a workstation and operates to selectively raise and lower a device such as a keyboard such that the device may be utilized by a user in a seated position as well as by the user in a standing position. Commercial products such as the STANDUP workplace accessory provides methods of adjusting for height of a keyboard for a sit and stand workstation.

It is also known to provide some keyboard adjustment through the use of an industry standard keyboard mechanism such as those provided by CompX Waterloo Inc. Kitchener Ontario Canada for example. The prior art keyboard mechanism systems may provide sufficient adjustment of a keyboard for a seated user in some situations. However the adjustability of prior art units may be limited such that the same equipment may not be utilized in conjunction with the sit and stand principle described above at least not to the degree as dictated for an ergonomically correct standing height of a 95th percentile male.

It is known to provide an articulated support arm for a computer accessory or a tablet computer which is attached to a workstation such as the Concerto arm obtained from CompX ErgonomX. However it would be beneficial to provide such a device to be attachable directly to a seat of a seating device especially a seat that is height adjustable such that the benefits discussed above can be achieved.

Thus it would be desirable to have a seating device that would have an apparatus attached to the seat of the seating device and to be capable of elevating a portable device such as a computer or a computer tablet or other technological accessory or reading material for utilization by a user in a seated position and in a standing position. It would be desirable to have a work surface in which tablet portable device can either be positioned in a horizontal plane to allow typing by the user or at a vertical angle so as to allow reading from said device. It would also be desirable that the unit be able to be installed on a seat member of the seating device for practical and functional reasons. It is therefore desirable that the attachment mechanism be simple to use so that the user can change positions and the height of the portable device as desired.

In one aspect the current invention provides a seating assembly with a seat member a first adjustable arm rotationally attached to the seat member by a first connecting means an attachment assembly for removably attaching a first adjustable arm to the seat member a second adjustable arm attached to the first adjustable arm by a second connecting means such that the first and second connecting means permit the second adjustable arm to be pivoted and rotated to any desired position and a support structure attached to the second adjustable arm by a third connecting means such that the support structure is adapted to provide a work surface. In an embodiment of the invention the second connecting means could provide a universal adjustment to the second adjustable arm. In a further embodiment of the invention the attachment assembly comprises a bar member or a seat mount bar and a mounting assembly. The mounting assembly may be attached to the right or the left side of the bar member so as to permit the use of the seating device by a left handed or a right handed user. Alternatively the seating assembly may have two mounting assemblies on either side of the seat member. In a preferred embodiment the mounting assembly includes a plate attachable to the bar member of the attachment assembly and a male component adapted to mate with a female component of the first connecting means. In a preferred embodiment the male and female components are tubular in shape such that the female component rotates around the male component. In other embodiments the male component may comprise a sphere and the female component may include a complementary surface. The second and third connector means may include a hinge and a spring to allow the pivotal as well as the rotational movement of the second adjustable arm and the support structure. The support structure provides a work surface for a portable device such as by way of example a computer component a tablet computer or reading material such as books. In a further embodiment the second connecting means is adapted to permit a universal adjustment of said second adjustable arm.

In an alternate embodiment a seating assembly is described to which adjustable arms that support a work surface are attached. The seating assembly includes a seat member and a base member. The seat member is attached to a first adjustable arm by an attachment assembly and by a first connecting means that includes a mounting assembly to permit rotation of the adjustable arms. The first adjustable arm is connected to a second adjustable arm by a second connecting means that may include a hinge. The second connecting means allows rotational and pivotal articulation of the second adjustable arm which supports a work surface that is adapted by way of example for a computer such as a tablet. In an embodiment of the invention the attachment assembly includes a bar member and a mounting assembly such that the mounting assembly has a plate member and a male component that is adapted to mate with a female component that may be located on the first connecting means.

In an alternate embodiment the present invention provides a seating assembly including a base structure and a seat structure and that further includes one or more adjustable arms such that at least one of the adjustable arms is functionally attached to a support structure adapted to support one or more portable devices. The seat member includes and attachment assembly for removably attaching a first adjustable arm to the seating member. The attachment assembly includes a seat mount assembly a plate and a female component of a first adjustable arm. The attachment means includes a male component of a first connecting means and the first adjustable arm includes a female component adapted to be functionally associated with the male component of the attachment assembly so as to rotatably connect the first adjustable arm to the attachment assembly. The first connecting means permits the first adjustable arm to rotate about a vertical axis through the first connecting means wherein the vertical axis is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by the seat member.

The seating assembly also includes a second adjustable arm functionally attached to the first adjustable arm by a second connecting means that permits a rotational and a pivotal movement of the second arm and a support structure attached to the second adjustable arm by a third connecting means that is functionally adapted to permit rotational and a pivotal movement of the support structure. The second connecting means and or third connecting means may comprise a hinge and or a spring.

The support structure is functionally adapted to hold a portable device at an adjustable height above the seating device wherein the predetermined height may be adjusted from a first height to accommodate a user utilizing the device in a seated position to a second height to accommodate the user in a standing position. The support structure also allows adjusting the work surface from a horizontal to a vertical position to accommodate for the various uses of the portable device such writing reading or inputting information. In a further embodiment the seating assembly has one or more mounting assemblies attached to the right or the left of the seat member so as to permit the use of the seating assembly by a left handed or right handed user.

In another embodiment the attachment assembly may comprise a slidable attachment assembly which advantageously allows for adjustment of the width of the relevant components.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The invention relates to a seating assembly with an extension arm that is attachable to the bottom of a seat member to support a work surface. The extension arm includes one or more adjustable arms to allow the use of the work surface by a user or operator in both a seated and standing position as desired. The extension arm also allows the use of the work surface to support a portable device such as a computer tablet or other computer accessories in a horizontal or vertical position so as to permit the use of the tablet to type or read. According to the present invention the seating assembly can be adjusted to provide a work surface for a left handed and or a right handed user or both if the seating assembly is used by multiple persons by easily altering components in the novel attachment assembly described more fully herein. Further by having the extension arm attachable to the bottom of the seat member as the height of the seat member is adjusted the height of the arm and thus the portable device such as a computer tablet is also further adjustable. Additional height adjustment is provided in the first connecting means as described more fully below which advantageously provides flexibility and facilitates practicing proper ergonomic principles while utilizing the seating device. Further by attaching the arm to the seat member no additional stand alone apparatus is required to be placed in the workspace. Advantageously with the improvements described herein none of the functions of the prior art seating device is hindered.

The invention relates particularly to a seating assembly having an extension arm affixed to the seating device by a mounting assembly. The mounting assembly may be attached to the seat member of the seating assembly by a seat mount bar or bar member affixed to the bottom part of the seat member preferably in a horizontal orientation. The mounting assembly includes a plate and a male component. The male component is configured to mate with a female component of a connection means linking the mount assembly and hence the seat member to the extension arm such that the female component rotates around the male component to allow the rotational movement of the extension arm. In an embodiment of the present invention the male and female components are tubular. Certain embodiments of the present invention may have one or more mounting assemblies so to permit connecting the extension arm to the right and or the left side of the seat member.

The extension arm in an embodiment of the invention includes a first adjustable arm a second adjustable arm and a support structure as described more fully below.

The support structure maybe adapted to hold any portable device such as a computer a tablet computer a book etc so as to allow the ergonomic use of said portable device. The support structure is mounted on the second adjustable arm by a third connector means.

In each of these embodiments the advantage of using one piece of furniture to support the work surface while the user is seated or standing is utilized with a further advantage of having the seat attachment member attachable to the seat member directly as opposed to being attached to neighboring apparatus or resting on the floor. Thus cost and space is reduced compared to using two pieces of furniture such as separate seating devices and desks to employ the sit and stand principle.

Illustrative embodiments of the invention are described below. In the interest of clarity not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

Further aspects and advantages of the various embodiments of the invention will become apparent from consideration of the following description and drawings.

Referring to a prior art a seating assembly is shown having a seat member and a base . Seat member is used as a general term through this specification to comprise the seat and can include the seat mechanism springs knobs brackets associated housing which provides for the basic functionality of a prior art chair pivoting rotating etc. . Armrests are also shown in this prior art seating assembly but are not included in the remaining figures for simplicity. However it would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art that each seating assembly shown herein may include armrests .

Referring to a seating assembly is shown that has a seat member . An attachment assembly is shown as comprising a seat mount bar or bar member and a mounting assembly . Mounted underneath seat member which includes the seat mechanism but is shown simply as seat member in the figures is the bar member . As shown more fully in the bar member has holes and is also attachable to the plate of the mounting assembly . The mounting assembly includes a plate and male component . The male component is configured to mate with female component of an accessory such as on a first adjustable arm described more fully below. It can be seen in that female component includes a cylindrical void adapted to receive the male component . In the female component is separated from the male component however as shown by the directional arrow the female component is adapted to receive male component .

In this embodiment it can be seen that an attachment assembly includes the mounting assembly i.e. the male component connected to the plate and bar member . The male component is pressed into place and secured within the plate . However other configurations could be utilized as one of ordinary skill in the art would realize. For instance the entire attachment assembly i.e. the mounting assembly and the bar member could comprise one singular unit welded together or casted into a single component by way of example only. Other well known methods of constructing the attachment assembly would be well known to others having the benefit of this disclosure. Further the mounting assembly could include a female component instead of the male component as described more fully hereinafter.

Referring to the first adjustable arm is functionally associated with the female component having void . The female component is adapted to receive the male component of the seat mounting assembly . In that way the male component of the seat mounting assembly and the female component form a first connector means to rotatably attach the first adjustable arm to the mounting assembly . These first connector means allows for the rotational movement of the first adjustable arm to rotate about a vertical axis of the male component wherein the vertical axis is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by seat member . Further in some embodiments the female component may be selectively attached at a first height around the male component and then released and selectively attached at a second height around the male component at a second height above the first height. The selective attachment may be provided by the tightening of a collar on the female component by way of example only. Regardless this additional feature of selective attachment at different heights advantageously provides another mechanism in which the height of the arm may be adjusted.

It would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art that in other embodiments the male component may be attached to the first adjustable arm and the female component could be part of the mounting assembly . That is the male and female components and comprise the first connector means regardless of which is connected to the first adjustable arm the other being part of the mount assembly .

Again referring to a second adjustable arm is shown connected to first adjustable arm by second connector means . Second connector means allows the rotational and pivotal movement of second adjustable arm and can include a spring to adjust the tension in the adjustable arm if needed as would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art. The pivotal movement of the second connector means is provided by hinge which allows the upper end of the second adjustable arm to be moved vertically with respect to the second connector means . Rotational movement of the second adjustable arm with respect to the first adjustable arm is provided by the mating of two concentric components may include a bearing each not shown as would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Second adjustable arm connects to support structure by a third connector means . Third connector means allows the rotational and pivotal movement of support structure . Rotational movement of the third adjustable arm with respect to the second adjustable arm is provided by the mating of two concentric components may include a bearing each not shown as would be realized by one of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Support structure may pivot vertically via hinge and rotate around an axis that is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by seat member so as to allow a portable device not shown a computer accessory a computer tablet or a book to be used in a landscape or in a portrait orientation.

Referring again to once the female component is inserted into the male component it can be seen that a user would be able to utilize the portable device while standing. It is noted that is provided in which a user of the claimed device can utilize the present invention while seated thereby realizing the advantages of the sit and stand principle described above.

By attaching the claimed device to the seat member of the prior art seating assembly advantageously no additional furniture is required in a workspace. Further since most seat members of prior art seating assemblies are adjustable for the height of the user then by adjusting the height of the seats then adjustment of the height of the support structure is similarly adjustable which is advantageous over prior art units. Further by adding the attachment assembly to the seat member of the seating assembly the adjustable arm can be added or removed from the seating assembly without the use of tools. Further since the attachment assembly includes a simple yet robust means to connect that arm to the seat member via the first connecting means the arm can be removed quickly and stored when not in use. Referring to the bottom view of an example of seat member is shown. Attached to seat member is attachment assembly which includes the seat mount bar or bar member and the mounting assembly . In an embodiment of the invention shown the bar member is attached to the bottom of the seat member . As shown the bar member is rectangular and fixed to seat member by screws. It is understood by the skilled in the art that any method of attaching seat member to bar member may be employed such as by welding gluing etc. It is also noted that while the mount assembly is attached to the right hand side of the seat mount bar as shown one of ordinary skill in the art can realize that the mounting assembly is equally attachable to the left hand side of the bar member which allows the claimed device to be utilized by a left handed or right handed user.

It should be noted that the aforementioned inventive seat member attachment comprises the bar member of and the mount assembly of .

Referring to shown is the seating assembly in accordance with of the present invention in which the support structure is been rotated and lowered such that the support structure which could be supporting a portable device for example would be accessible to a user seated in the seating assembly . As shown and as compared to the first adjustable arm is rotatable with respect to the mounting assembly via the first connecting means the second adjustable arm has been rotated with respect to the first adjustable arm via the second connecting means the second adjustable arm has been pivoted via the hinge on the second connecting means the support structure has been rotated with respect to the second adjustable arm via the third connecting means and the support structure has been pivoted via the hinge of the third connecting means . Thus the support structure has been lowered and the second adjustable arm is shown extended substantially horizontally.

It should be mentioned that alternative embodiments each any or all of the first second and third connecting means could provide for universal adjustment. For instance the connector means could comprise a ball and socket joint between the respective two components i.e. between the first adjustable arm and the second adjustable arm in the case of the second connecting means thus allowing rotation about the x y and z axes providing for universal adjustment of the second adjustable arm. Similarly the male component which is shown in the Figures as tubular of the first connector means could be formed in the shape of a sphere and the female component of the first connecting means could be provided with a complementary mating spherical surface thus providing universal i.e. in the x y and z axes adjustment of the first adjustment arm with respect to the mounting assembly.

The second connecting means could provide for universal adjustment of the second adjustable arm. For instance the first connector means could comprise a ball and socket joint thus allowing rotation about the x y and z axis providing for universal adjustment of the second adjustable arm with respect to the mount assembly . With this configuration yet another method of altering the height of the support structure is provided. That is by lowering the first adjustable arm with respect to the seat member via the first connecting means.

Similarly the third connecting means could comprise a ball on the end of the second adjustable arm mating with a complementary surface on the support structure thus allowing rotation about the x y and z axes providing for universal adjustment of the support structure .

In yet another embodiment the mounting assembly can be attached to the other end of the bar member . For instance in the mount assembly is shown attached to the left side of the bar member . This can also be seen in bottom view. However as can be seen in holes are provided on both ends of the bar member such that the mounting assembly could be attached the other end i.e. the right end in of the bar member to accommodate left handed or right handed persons. Finally in yet another embodiment the bar member could include mounting assembly on both ends of bar member . When a user wanted to move the arm from a first mounting assembly on the left hand side of the seat member to a second mounting assembly on the right hand side of the seat member the user may remove the from the first mounting assembly and attach the arm to the second mounting assembly as would be realized by one of skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. In this way the seating assembly can be advantageously utilized in the same workspace by users desiring different configurations of the seating assembly without addition additional equipment to the work area.

Describing an embodiment of the present invention in operation as shown in seating assembly has a seat member . Mounted underneath seat member is a bar member that also attaches to mount assembly . Male component of the mount assembly is configured to mate with female component of first connecting means . First connector means links the mount assembly to first adjustable arm . First connector means allows for the rotational movement of the first adjustable arm to rotate about a vertical axis though first connecting means wherein the vertical axis is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by seat member . Second adjustable arm is connected to first adjustable arm by second connecting means . Second connecting means allows the rotational and pivotal movement of second adjustable arm . Second adjustable arm connects to support structure by a third connecting means . Third connecting means may allow the rotational and pivotal movement of support structure . Support structure may pivot vertically and rotate around an axis that is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by seat member so as to allow a portable device not shown such as a computer tablet by way of example to be used in a landscape or in a portrait orientation. And comparing to it can be seen that the present invention allows a user to utilize the claimed device in a seated or standing position thus obtaining the benefits discussed above.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is provided showing a slidable attachment assembly . The embodiment of FIGS. A B includes many of the same features as the embodiments of with the differences being described hereinafter. In this embodiment it can be seen that an slidable attachment assembly includes a mounting assembly and a housing . In this embodiment the mounting assembly is the same as the mounting assembly previously described with the addition of threaded hole the purpose of which will be described below. In this embodiment housing is a hollow rectangular metal frame which is attachable to the seat member just like the bar member was attachable to the seat member . The housing includes a longitudinal opening adapted to slidably receive the mounting assembly in operation. The housing is also provided with a longitudinal slot shown on its underside in the attached Figures.

Specifically shows housing with slot . Mounting assembly is shown which includes the male component connected to the plate holes each of which being described previously and threaded hole . shows an adjustment knob this is adapted to pass through slot in the housing and threadedly engage hole of the mounting assembly . also shows the housing attached to the seat member . As described above the seat member is used herein a general term and is known to be just the seat or the seat and seat mechanism which houses the springs chair adjustments etc. The mounting assembly is shown slidably disposed within the housing . The threaded hole is shown into which the adjustment knob may be inserted.

In operation the housing is attached to the underside of the seat member . The mounting assembly is longitudinally inserted into the housing as shown by the directional arrows in . Once inserted the threaded hole of the mounting assembly is aligned with the slot such that a threaded end of the adjustment knob may be inserted. Once a desired width is selected a user may rotate the adjustment knob until the shoulder on the adjustment knob contacts the housing thus selectively securing the mounting assembly within housing . In this way adjustment for the width of the arms may be advantageously provided.

It should be noted that the remaining features shown in i.e. the first and second adjustable support arms etc. are the same for the embodiment of and B and will not be repeated in this section.

Although various embodiments have been shown and described the invention is not so limited and will be understood to include all such modifications and variations as would be apparent to one skilled in the art.

The following table lists the description and the reference numbers as used herein and in the drawings attached hereto for use as reference only and do not limit the scope of the claims in any way.

