---

title: Stringed instrument hand rest
abstract: A hand rest for a guitar or other such stringed instrument configured to be positioned over strings of the stringed instrument such that a user of the stringed instrument may rest a hand on at least a portion of the hand rest while using the stringed instrument. Furthermore, the hand rest is configured to not interfere with a user striking one or more strings and the vibration of one or more strings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08927839&OS=08927839&RS=08927839
owner: 
number: 08927839
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130221
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 601 283 filed by Carl D. Hammack on Feb. 21 2012 and entitled STRINGED INSTRUMENT HAND REST which application is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Many stringed instruments generally require a user to strike e.g. pluck pick etc. one or more strings to vibrate the strings which causes sound to be produced. For example a user may pick a particular string on a guitar to cause a particular note to be played. Other stringed instruments such as a banjo bass guitar mandolin etc. are played using generally the same principles. A variety of methods are typically employed to strike desired strings for example some guitar players prefer to pluck strings with their fingers i.e. finger picking while other guitar players prefer using a pick to pluck strings.

Finger picking an instrument generally requires a user to maintain a hand position over the strings of the instrument while using different fingers to strike different strings. When finger picking for prolonged periods the required position can become tiring to maintain for the user. In these situations the user may position the finger picking hand incorrectly which may lead to striking incorrect notes hand and finger cramps or muffling the vibration of the strings.

Therefore a need continues to exist in the art for improving the comfort of a user while playing a stringed instrument while maintaining the proper position.

The invention addresses these and other problems associated with the prior art by providing a hand rest capable of being coupled to a body of a stringed instrument and positioned over the strings of the instrument such that the hand rest and the user s hand does not interfere with the vibration of the strings but allows a user to maintain proper positioning for striking actuating the strings. Embodiments consistent with the invention may be removably coupleable to a stringed instrument. Furthermore a hand rest consistent with some embodiments of the invention may be rotatable with respect to the stringed instrument such that a supporting portion of the hand rest may be positioned over the strings in a first position and may be rotated to a second position not positioned over the strings. Furthermore embodiments of the invention may vary based on the type of stringed instrument for which a particular embodiment is designed to be used with.

Consistent with one aspect of the invention for example a hand rest for a stringed instrument may include a supporting portion positioned over strings of the stringed instrument to support a user s hand during use of the stringed instrument such that a portion of the user s hand may be suspended over the strings without inhibiting vibration of the strings and a securing member coupling the supporting portion to the stringed instrument.

Consistent with another aspect of the invention a hand rest for an electric guitar may include a mounting plate configured to removably couple to a portion of an electric guitar and a supporting portion connected to the mounting plate and configured to be positioned over strings of the electric guitar when the mounting plate is removably coupled to the electric guitar to support a user s hand during use of the electric guitar such that a portion of the user s hand may be suspended over the strings without inhibiting vibration of the strings.

Consistent with still another aspect of the invention a hand rest for an acoustic guitar may include a supporting portion comprising first and second opposing ends and positioned over the strings of the acoustic guitar to support a user s hand during use of the acoustic guitar such that a portion of the user s hand may be suspended over the strings without inhibiting vibration of the strings and at least one securing member coupling the first and second opposing ends of the supporting portion to the acoustic guitar on opposite sides of the strings.

These and other advantages and features which characterize the invention are set forth in the claims annexed hereto and forming a further part hereof. However for a better understanding of the invention and of the advantages and objectives attained through its use reference should be made to the Drawings and to the accompanying descriptive matter in which there is described exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments consistent with the invention provide a hand rest for a user of a stringed instrument where the hand rest may be positioned over the strings of the stringed instrument to accommodate an appropriate hand position while not interfering with vibrations of one or more of the strings. Typically the hand rest includes a supporting portion that at least partially overlays the strings of the stringed instrument between the nut and bridge of the stringed instrument such that the user s hand may rest on the supporting portion and be disposed in a position that absent the hand rest would otherwise muffle or mute the strings if brought into contact with the strings. In particular the supporting portion may be positioned over the strings to support a user s hand during use of the stringed instrument such that a portion of the user s hand e.g. the palm may be suspended over the strings without inhibiting vibration of the strings. Consequently a user may play the stringed instrument with reduced fatigue and greater precision than would occur were the user required to suspend his or her hand in free space above the strings. Moreover in some embodiments the provision of a hand rest enables a user to more comfortably strike actuate strings of a stringed instrument closer to the strings midpoints thereby providing a fuller tone.

As shown a user i.e. the hand provided in phantom may rest a hand on the hand rest coupled to the guitar and thereby position the hand over the strings to facilitate picking i.e. striking actuating of the strings. Advantageously using the hand rest the user may maintain a playing position for the hand while also resting the hand . As such a user finger picking the guitar may rest the palm of his hand on the hand rest while picking the strings . In addition a user picking the guitar using a guitar pick or other similar device may rest his hand on the hand rest while picking the strings . Moreover the hand rest is spaced apart from the strings such that the hand rest does not interfere with vibration of the strings .

As will be described in detail below the hand rest may comprise a supporting portion that may be positioned over the strings of a stringed instrument in the guitar such that the user may rest a hand on the supporting portion . In general the supporting portion may be removably coupleable to a stringed instrument by one or more securing members which in the example of are adjustable clamps configured to clamp to the body of the acoustic guitar through a sound hole of the acoustic guitar . In addition the supporting portion may be connected to a securing member by a threaded member that passes through a corresponding threaded opening in the supporting portion and the securing member . As such the distance between the supporting portion and the strings may be adjustable by rotation of the threaded member . In some embodiments the supporting portion overlays the strings at a position between the bridge and the nut of the guitar and in some embodiments overlays the strings at a position over the sound hole of the guitar. In some embodiments the securing members secure the opposing ends of the supporting portion to the guitar on opposite sides of the strings as illustrated in .

As shown in supporting portion may be u shaped at least where the supporting portion overlays the strings. Other shapes may be used in the alternative and in some embodiments the supporting portion may simply extend linearly in a transverse relationship to the strings.

Traction pads may be formed from a compressible non skid and non marring material such that the traction pads minimize movement of the hand rest during normal use and minimize damaging the finished surface of the guitar. The traction pads may be formed for example of rubber or foam and may be separate from clamping plates or integrated into clamping plates e.g. through the use of an adhesive. The other components in hand rest may be formed of various rigid materials such as brass stainless steel other metals or various plastics or composite materials.

In addition it will be appreciated that other fasteners and fastening arrangements may be used to mount hand rest to guitar . For example threaded member may not include flattened head and a nut may be used to secure supporting portion to threaded member . One or more of supporting member and clamping plates may lack threaded openings and slidably receive threaded member with integrated or separate spacers or sleeves used to maintain appropriate separation between components. An additional nut may be disposed at the end of threaded member opposite supporting portion to impart the clamping force to clamping plates . In addition in some embodiments fastening arrangements other that threaded fastening arrangements may be used. For example spring loaded clips may be used to clamp a hand rest to guitar or screws could be used to permanently affix a hand rest to a guitar. Other variations for temporarily or permanently securing hand rest to guitar will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the instant disclosure.

Turning now to this figure illustrates a hand rest consistent with some embodiments of the invention. In this example the hand rest is removably coupled to an electric guitar comprising a body a neck and a plurality of strings coupled to the body and extending up the neck as shown in . As shown the hand rest may be coupled to the body of the electric guitar and positioned over the strings at a location on the body where the strings are to be struck by a user. In general electric guitars comprise pickups and in this example the electric guitar comprises humbucker style pickups . In this particular embodiment the hand rest is configured to removably couple to the electric guitar by coupling to a humbucker pickup . While the provided example includes a humbucker style pickup embodiments of the invention may be configured to removably couple to other styles of electric guitar pickups including single coil pickups and or various dimensional variations of the basic single coil humbucker type pickups.

In some embodiments the supporting portion overlays the strings at a position between the bridge and the nut of the guitar and in some embodiments overlays the strings at a position over a pickup of a guitar or between adjacent pickups of a guitar. By doing so positioning of a user s hand or palm on the supporting portion does not restrict vibration of the strings.

The mounting plate may be configured with one or more fastener openings such that a fastener e.g. a screw bolt or other such known fastener may pass therethrough and secure the mounting plate to the body of the guitar. Consistent with embodiments of the invention fastener openings may correspond to positions on a pickup of the guitar configured with threaded openings to which a fastener may be inserted. In this example the fastener openings of the mounting plate are configured at positions on the mounting plate to correspond to positions on a humbucker style pickup configured with threaded openings . Furthermore the mounting plate may be configured with an adjustment screw opening such that an adjustment screw of the pickup is accessible when the hand rest is removably coupled to the electric guitar.

As shown in the hand rest may optionally include a shim that may be placed between the mounting plate and the body not shown of the guitar when the hand rest is removably coupled to the guitar. In general the shim may be of varying dimensions and the thickness of the shim generally corresponds to the distance between the supporting portion and the strings . Hence based on the type of instrument user preference and configuration of a hand rest consistent with embodiments of the invention the hand rest may comprise a shim to thereby position the supporting portion of the hand rest a preferred distance from the strings. The example shim of is configured with fastener openings that correspond to the fastener openings of the mounting plate and an adjustment screw opening that corresponds to the adjustment screw opening of the mounting plate .

In other embodiments other fastening arrangements such as one or more detents located at predetermined angular positions springs or other tensioning arrangements may be used to restrict free rotation of the supporting portion during operational use.

As shown in this embodiment the mounting plate is positioned on the shim and the shim is positioned on a portion of the pickup coupled to the body . Fasteners removably couple the mounting plate and the shim to the portion of the pickup .

In still other embodiments a hand rest need not be coupled to a pickup or pickup housing and may be directly secured to the body of the guitar or secured to another component of the guitar such as a plate or bridge. Alternative fastening arrangements beyond those illustrated herein will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the instant disclosure.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention a hand rest may be removably or permanently coupleable with a stringed instruction and configured such that at least a portion of the hand rest is positioned over the strings of the stringed instrument such that a user may rest a hand on the hand rest while striking the strings. Importantly the at least a portion of the hand rest positioned over the strings is spaced apart from the strings such that the hand rest does not interfere with vibration of the strings. In particular embodiments a hand rest consistent with the invention may utilized by a user on a guitar such that the user may rest a hand over the strings of the guitar without interfering with the vibration of the strings. Furthermore particular embodiments may utilize various materials and finishes to match a particular stringed instrument and or to prevent rusting from extended contact with a hand. For example the hand rest may include powder coated metal components. In addition a hand rest consistent with embodiments may be at least partially constructed with aluminum or steel which may provide advantages with respect to durability. Moreover as discussed previously dimensions of hand rests consistent with embodiments of the invention may be configured to accommodate a particular stringed instrument. For example a hand rest for an electric guitar may be different dimensions that a hand rest for an acoustic guitar a bass guitar a banjo a mandolin or other stringed instrument. Moreover at least a portion of a hand rest consistent with embodiments may be removably coupleable from a stringed instrument or alternatively may be permanently fixed to a stringed instrument. In addition as illustrated by the examples provided in the drawings portions of hand rests consistent with embodiments of the invention configured to couple to the stringed instrument may vary based on the type of instrument and or user preference.

Further in some embodiments a hand rest may have a supporting portion that is moveable between one or more positions that overlay the strings of a stringed instrument and one or more positions that do not overlay the strings and do not otherwise interfere with the user s hand. For example it may be desirable in some embodiments to provide a position of the supporting portion that enables a user to use a palm muting and or strumming technique when playing a stringed instrument. In other embodiments however the supporting potion may not be moveable.

Various additional advantages and modifications beyond those discussed herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example additional variations are discussed and illustrated in the aforementioned provisional application that is incorporated by reference herein. Therefore the invention lies in the claims hereinafter appended.

