---

title: Mitral valve spacer and system and method for implanting the same
abstract: A trans-femoral implant includes an anchor assembly and a balloon assembly configured to be separately delivered to an implant site within a heart. Once delivered, the anchor assembly and balloon assembly may be coupled to form an implant within the heart. The balloon anchor may include a fluid inflatable balloon that may be selectively filled via a balloon filling valve. The balloon assembly may further include a latching mechanism that may couple with a distal end of the anchor assembly, such that the length of the implant may be adjusted within the heart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09289297&OS=09289297&RS=09289297
owner: CardioSolutions, Inc.
number: 09289297
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

The human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement may be carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and may be carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method of implanting a heart implant. For example the system and method according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may be used to implant a heart valve implant which may suitably be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of a dysfunctional or inoperative heart valve. One suitable implementation for a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure is the treatment of mitral valve regurgitation. For the ease of explanation the heart valve implant herein is described in terms of a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 filed Oct. 26 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference. However a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be employed for treating diagnosing and or correcting other dysfunctional or inoperative heart valves such as the heart valve implant s discussed herein in connection with .

It should be understood that the technology of the present disclosure including the implant described in connection with is not limited to mitral valve implants and systems and methods of implanting mitral valve implants. Indeed the systems and methods according to the present disclosure may be used to implant heart implants configured to be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of other heart conditions. For example and without limitation the system and method consistent with the present disclosure may be used to implant a regurgitation implant configured to induce a controlled regurgitation in a heart valve such as but not limited to a mitral heart valve for example in a manner that is generally consistent with advanced disease of the heart. The regurgitation implant may include a regurgitation implant as described in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 940 724 filed Nov. 15 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

According to one embodiment a heart implant consistent with the present disclosure may comprise a heart valve implant configured to interact with at least a portion of an existing heart valve to prevent and or reduce regurgitation. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps or leaflets of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp or leaflet and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured chordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

For the ease of explanation one embodiment of the system and method consistent with the present disclosure is described in terms of a system and method for implanting a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation. By way of an overview the system and method may generally comprise placing a guide wire into the left ventricle and advancing a mitral valve implant through a delivery catheter and into the left ventricle. For example a guide wire may be initially placed into the left atrium of the heart for example by way of transseptal puncture of the heart from the right atrium through the fossa ovalis into the left atrium. A dilator may then be advanced along the guide wire to the left atrium and may be passed through the mitral valve into the left ventricle. The dilator may include a balloon which may be inflated to facilitate passing the dilator through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve chordae. A steerable catheter may then be advanced along the dilator into the left ventrical. The steerable catheter may be positioned within the left ventrical to the approximate location in which the implant will be secured. The implant may then be advanced through the steerable catheter and secured to the native cardiac tissue.

Referring now to a cross sectional schematic view of a portion of a four chamber heart is illustrated. The outflow tracts of the right and left ventricles are not shown in order to better illustrate the septum between the right and left atria . As shown the inferior vena cava IVC and superior vena cava SVC communicate with the right atrium which is separated from the left atrium by the intra atrial septum . While not a limitation of the present disclosure it is may be advantageous to make the transseptal puncture through the fossa ovalis since the fossa ovalis is thinnest portion of the intra atrial septum .

According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure a guide wire may be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . The guide wire may include any guide wire configured to be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . Consistent with one embodiment the guide wire may be the same as the delivery guide wire discussed herein however the guide wire may also be separate and distinct from the delivery guide wire. Without limitation access to the right atrium may be accomplished by way of the Seldinger wire technique. For example the right femoral vein not shown may be accessed with a hollow needle not shown and a guide wire may be inserted. The needle may be removed and a dilator may be inserted over the guide wire . The sheath of a catheter such as but not limited to a Mullins catheter or the like having a pre bent region proximate the distal tip of the catheter may be inserted over the dilator . The sheath dilator catheter and guide wire may then be advanced up the IVC through the opening into the right atrium as generally illustrated in .

With the sheath dilator catheter and guide wire in the right atrium access to the left atrium may be achieved by transseptal puncture from the right atrium through the intra atrial septum . For example at least a portion of the guide wire may be advanced out of the distal tip of the dilator sheath and or catheter as generally shown in . According to an embodiment the guide wire may be at least partially advanced into the SVC as generally illustrated in and the distal tip of the catheter may then be at least partially advanced along the guide wire into the SVC as generally illustrated in . Because the SVC is a thin walled vein it may be advantageous to place the guide wire in the SVC and then advance the catheter along the guide wire since the spring tipped atraumatic guide wire reduces the potential for damaging the SVC compared to the catheter and dilator .

With the distal tip at least partially received in the SVC the guide wire may be retracted into the dilator and the catheter may be retracted i.e. pulled downward such that the pre bent portion of the sheath facilitates guiding the distal tip to the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . For example using one or more visualization techniques such as but not limited to intracardiac echo ICE fluoroscopy and the like the sheath may be retracted proximally dragging the distal tip along the intra atrial septum until the distal tip is positioned proximate to the fossa ovalis . Optionally the position of the sheath relative to the fossa ovalis may be confirmed by gently pushing the sheath distally against the intra atrial septum to tent the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . The tenting of the fossa ovalis may be seen on ICE fluoroscopy or the like.

With the distal tip proximate and or contacting the fossa ovalis the guide wire may be removed from the catheter and a transseptal needle may be advanced through the catheter towards the distal end of the catheter as generally shown in . The position of the catheter may optionally be confirmed for example but not limited to by tenting and the transseptal needle may be advanced out of the distal tip to form a puncture through the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium . The sheath dilator and catheter may than be advanced through the puncture of the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium as generally shown in . Once the sheath dilator and catheter are through the fossa ovalis the needle may be removed from the catheter as generally shown in .

With the catheter in the left atrium a delivery guide wire may be advanced through the catheter until at least a portion of the distal tip of the delivery guide wire extends from the distal tip of the catheter and into the left atrium as generally illustrated in . Once the distal tip of the delivery guide wire is disposed in the left atrium the dilator and the sheath may be removed leaving just the delivery guide wire in the left atrium as generally illustrated in .

The delivery guide wire may be used as a guide for advancing other devices into the heart and ultimately into the left ventricle . Accordingly to at least one embodiment the delivery guide wire may be sufficiently stiff to resist undesirable bending and or kinking and to resist undesirable movement of the distal tip . For example the delivery guide wire may comprise a stiff 0.018 diameter guide wire having a stiffness of approximately 19 900 000 psi. The stiffness of the delivery guide wire was determined as follows.

When a force is applied to a long thin column there is no movement of the column until a minimum critical buckling force is achieved P then further buckling occurs though the force does not increase. For a long column of uniform cross section and length l which buckles under a critical force P the following formula applies 

Based on the above an 8 cm section of the delivery guide wire was tested and a buckling force of 0.41 lbs. was determined. Therefore 

According to at least one other embodiment the delivery guide wire may include a typical 0.018 guide wire for example a 0.018 angled standard exchange guide wire made by Merit Medical Systems of South Jordan Utah Model H20STDA18260EX which was determined to have a stiffness of approximately 1 360 000 psi based on the same methodology . In either embodiment the delivery guide wire may have a diameter greater than or less than 0.018 .

Turning now to a dilator may be advanced over the delivery guide wire into the left atrium . The dilator may be configured to pass through the mitral valve into the left ventricle without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve for example the cusps the chordae and or papillary muscles of the mitral valve . According to at least one embodiment the dilator of the present disclosure may be used to eliminate the delivery guide wire as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008. However it may be appreciated that the system and method disclosed in the present disclosure and in particular the dilator is not inconsistent with the system and method in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 and as such the system and method disclosed in the present disclosure including the dilator may be used in conjunction with the system and method in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686.

One embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated in . The dilator may include define at least one lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the delivery guide wire . For example the lumen may have an internal diameter of approximately 0.038 . The dilator may also comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The shaft may comprise a plurality of segments or portions having different stiffness or hardness to produce the desired overall curvature. The shaft may be formed from one or more suitable polymers such as but not limited to a polyether block amide. The shaft may have a constant inner and or outer diameter and may be made from different materials to provide the various stiffness or hardness. Alternatively or in addition the shaft may have different inner and or outer diameters and may be made from one or more materials. For example the various stiffness or hardness of the shaft may be provided by varying the thickness of the shaft at the different segments or portions. The different hardness of the segments may provide differing degrees of bending stiffness to the dilator which may facilitate advancing the dilator into and or out of the left ventricle .

As shown the dilator may comprise four different segments and . The first segment may be disposed proximate the distal end region . The first segment may optionally include the tapered distal tip and may have a length of approximately 6 inches. The tapered distal tip may be provided to facilitate advancing the tip into the percutaneous puncture site in the groin as the dilator is introduced over the delivery guide wire .

According to at least one embodiment the first segment may be formed of PEBAX 3533 having a durometer of 35 D. The second segment may be adjacent to the first segment and may have a length of approximately 1.5 inches. According to at least one embodiment the second segment may be formed of PEBAX 2533 having a durometer of 25 D. The third segment may be adjacent to the second segment and may have a length of approximately 2 inches. According to at least one embodiment the third segment may be formed of PEBAX 3533 having a durometer of 35 D. The forth segment may be adjacent to the third segment and may have a length of approximately 42.5 inches. According to at least one embodiment the forth segment may be formed of PEBAX 7233 having a durometer of 72 D.

It should be understood that the various lengths and hardness described above for the segments may be adjusted or changed depending upon the circumstances of its intended use. For example patients with larger and or smaller hearts may require one or more of the segments to be harder or softer. An important aspect of the segments is that the softest segment is the second segment . Also the second segment is disposed approximately 6 inches from the tapered distal tip . As will be explained herein the location of the second segment may generally correspond to the of the transseptal puncture site where the curvature of the dilator may be greatest.

Turning now to another embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated. The dilator may include a deflectable tip configured to allow the user to bend the distal region of the dilator . The deflectable tip may facilitate advancement of the dilator through the mitral valve by allowing the user to generally aim the tip towards the mitral valve . According to at least one embodiment the dilator may include a handle assembly coupled to a proximal end of the shaft . The shaft may include a plurality of segments for example the segments described above. One or more deflecting wires may be coupled to the distal end region of the shaft for example as generally illustrated in . The deflecting wire may optionally be disposed in a second lumen disposed along the length of the shaft . Additional deflecting wires not shown may be provided in one or more additional lumens.

The deflecting wire may be coupled to the handle assembly such that the distal tip may be bent as desired. According to one embodiment the handle assembly may include at least one knob slider or the like coupled to the deflecting wire such that actuation of the knob may result in movement of the distal tip . For example the knob may be coupled to the deflecting wire and may pull the deflecting wire generally towards the handle assembly causing the distal tip to bend to one side.

The handle assembly may also optionally include one or more valves or fittings. For example the handle assembly may include a fitting such as but not limited to a Luer lock fitting or the like configured to allow the lumen to be flushed. The handle assembly may also optionally include a valve such as but not limited to a hemostasis valve configured to seal with the delivery guide wire not shown .

The lumen may have various diameters along the length of the shaft . For example the lumen may have a smaller diameter proximate the distal tip compared to the remainder of the shaft . The lumen proximate the tip may be slightly larger than the diameter of the delivery guide wire for example but not limited to slightly larger than 0.018 such that the dilator tracks well over the delivery guide wire . The remainder of the lumen may have a larger diameter configured to reduce drag as the dilator is advanced over the delivery guide wire .

Turning now to yet another embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated. The dilator may comprise an expandable device such as but not limited to a balloon or the like configured to facilitate advancement of the dilator through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve for example the cusps the chordae and or papillary muscles of the mitral valve . The expanding portion may be disposed proximate the distal end region of the shaft for example substantially adjacent to the tapered tip . The expanding portion may be fluidly coupled to an expanding medium such as but not limited to a gas and or liquid which may expand and or enlarge the expanding portion from the deflated or retracted position as generally illustrated in to the inflated or expanded position as generally illustrated in . According to at least one embodiment the expanding medium may include carbon dioxide CO2 gas and or saline. Optionally contrast media may be introduced into the expanding portion to allow the expanding portion to be more easily visually located using fluoroscopy or the like. The contrast media may coat the inside surface of the expanding portion .

The expanding medium may be introduced through a fitting . According to at least one embodiment the expanding medium may be coupled to the expanding portion by way of the lumen as generally illustrated in . As may be appreciated the delivery guide wire may be received in the lumen when the dilator is expanded. The expanding medium may be coupled to the expanding portion by way of a separate passageway i.e. a passageway different from the lumen configured to receive the delivery guide wire . This passageway may be the same lumen as the steering wire is housed in provided there is enough room for the expansion medium to pass around the steering wire.

The expanding portion may include a resiliently expandable collapsible material such as but not limited to silicone Yulex or the like which may be selectively collapsed and or expanded. The expanding portion may be bonded to the shaft of the dilator and may include one or more passageways aperture or lumen fluidly coupled to the lumen to allow the expansion medium to expand collapse the expanding portion . The diameter of the expanding portion should be small enough in the first or retracted collapsed position to be advanced over the delivery guide wire to the left atrium and large enough when in the second or expanded inflated position to be advanced through the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve to reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . For example the shaft may have an outer diameter of approximately 0.062 e.g. a 5 Fr and a length of approximately 110 cm or greater. The expanding portion may diameter of approximately 0.100 in the first position and a diameter of approximately 15 mm to approximately 20 mm cm in the second position with a length of approximately 8 to approximately 10 mm.

The dilator may optionally include a deflectable tip configured to allow the user to bend the distal region of the dilator as generally described herein. The dilator may also optionally include one or more radiopaque markers for example disposed about the distal end region . The position markers may be spaced evenly along the shaft such as but not limited to approximately 2 cm intervals from the distal tip and may be used to verify the position of the dilator and or for sizing the implant to be delivered.

While various embodiments of the dilator consistent with the present disclosure have been described herein it should be understood that one or more features of any of the various embodiments may be combined with any other embodiment. The dilator consistent with he present disclosure may have an overall length i.e. from the distal tip to the handle assembly of approximately 145 cm or less. However the length and or the diameter of the dilator may depend upon the introduction site as well as the intended patient s physiology.

Turning now to the dilator may be advanced over the delivery guide wire proximate to the tip of the delivery guide wire . The tip may still extend beyond the tip of the dilator to protect the atrial wall from perforation. According to one embodiment the expanding portion may be expanded as generally illustrated. The dilator may aimed generally towards the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . For example the tip may be bent or curved by actuating one or more knobs or the like not shown to move one or more deflecting wires as discussed herein. The tip of the delivery guide wire may optionally be retracted into the lumen of the dilator to increase the flexibility of the distal tip region . The curvature of the dilator may be confirmed using fluoroscopic and or echo guidance techniques or the like. For example the contrast media and or the radiopaque markers may be used.

Turning now to with the dilator aimed at the mitral valve and the expanding portion inflated the distal end region of the dilator may be advanced through the mitral valve . It should be understood that the dilator may be advanced through the mitral valve without either the deflectable tip and or the expandable portion however the use of one or more of the deflectable tip and or the expandable portion may reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . The second segment of the shaft may generally correspond to the location of the bend or curve of the dilator proximate the transseptal puncture site . As may be appreciated the necessary curvature of the dilator between the transseptal puncture site and the left ventricle is relatively sharp.

The tip of the delivery guide wire may be still located inside the lumen of the dilator back in the left atrium generally where it was located in . The dilator may not yet be aimed or directed at the intended implantation site at this point. Instead it is only important that the distal end region of the dilator is through the mitral valve without damaging and or entangling the cusps and the chordae papillary muscles .

Turning now to the expandable portion may be retracted deflated and a steerable catheter may be advanced over the dilator into the left ventricle proximate to the distal end region of the dilator . The steerable catheter may define at least one lumen configured receive the dilator as generally illustrated. The lumen may also be configured to receive an implant not shown such as but not limited to a mitral valve implant as discussed herein with respect to as well as those generally disclosed in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 940 724 filed Nov. 15 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference. The steerable catheter may also be configured to be selectively curved or bent to facilitate aiming of the distal tip for securing the implant and or facilitate removal of the steerable catheter .

One embodiment of a steerable catheter is generally illustrated in . The steerable catheter may include shaft defining at least one lumen . The lumen may be configured to receive the dilator and or an implant not shown . The shaft may also include a plurality of segments or portions having different hardness or stiffness to produce the desired overall curvature. The shaft may be formed from one or more suitable polymers such as but not limited to a polyether block amide. The shaft may have a constant inner and or outer diameter and may be made from different materials to provide the various stiffness or hardness. Alternatively or in addition the shaft may have different inner and or outer diameters and may be made from one or more materials. For example the various stiffness or hardness of the shaft may be provided by varying the thickness of the shaft at the different segments or portions. The different hardness of the segments may provide differing degrees of bending stiffness to the steerable catheter which may facilitate advancing the steerable catheter into and or out of the left ventricle as well as aiming or alignment of the steerable catheter

As shown the steerable catheter may comprise three different segments and . The first segment may be disposed proximate the distal tip . The first segment may optionally include the tapered tip and may have a length of approximately 8 inches. The tapered tip may be provided to facilitate advancing the steerable catheter into the percutaneous puncture site in the groin and over the dilator .

According to at least one embodiment the first segment may be formed of PEBAX 2533 having a durometer of 25 D and may have a length of approximately 4 to 6 inches. The second segment may be adjacent to the first segment and may have a length of approximately 2.5 inches. According to at least one embodiment the second segment may be formed of PEBAX 4033 having a durometer of 40 D. The third segment may be adjacent to the second segment and may have a length sufficiently long to extend beyond the access incision. According to at least one embodiment the third segment may be formed of PEBAX 7233 having a durometer of 72 D.

It should be understood that the various lengths and hardness described above for the segments may be adjusted or changed depending upon the circumstances of its intended use. For example patients with larger and or smaller hearts may require one or more of the segments to be longer or short. An important aspect of the segments is that the softest segment is the first segment . Also the second segment is disposed approximately 4 to 6 inches from the distal tip . As will be explained herein the length of the first segment may generally correspond to the length between the transseptal puncture site and the implantation site e.g. the apex in the left ventricle where the curvature of the steerable catheter may be greatest.

The steerable catheter may also include a first steering device . The first steering device may include a pull ring or the like which may be disposed about 1.5 4 inches from the distal end of the tip . The exact length of the first steering device from the tip may depend on the size of the patient s heart which may vary quite a bit depending on among other things the degree of regurgitation. For example patients with functional mitral regurgitation often have dilated cardiomyopathy enlarged left ventricle . According to at least one embodiment the first steering device may be located 2 inches from the tip .

The steerable catheter may optionally include at least a second steering device . The second steering device may include a pull ring or the like which may be disposed proximate to the distal end of the tip . The second or more steering devices may be provided to facilitate curving or bending of the steerable catheter . The first and second steerable devices may be configured to reduce drag during withdrawal and may also facilitate alignment or aiming of the tip within the left ventricle . The first and second steerable devices may also facilitate advancement of the steerable catheter over the dilator through the trans septal puncture site and through the left atrium and down into the left ventricle .

The first and or second steerable devices may be coupled to a handle assembly which may be disposed about a proximal end of the shaft . The handle assembly may include one or more fittings and or valves. For example the handle assembly may include a valve for example but not limited to a hemostasis valve or the like and or a fitting for example but not limited to a luer lock fitting or the like . The handle assembly may also include one or more actuation devices such as but not limited to knobs sliders or the like coupled to the first and second steerable devices . The actuation devices may be configured to place the first and second steerable devices under tension therefore causing the shaft to deflect e.g. curve or bend . For example the steerable catheter may include actuation devices coupled to the first and or second steerable devices by way of one or more wires or the like disposed along at least a portion of the shaft as generally illustrated in .

By way of example the actuation devices may be slide distally and or proximally within the handle assembly to increase or decrease the tension placed on the wires . The tension in the wires may asymmetrically urge pull the first and or second steerable devices e.g. the first and or second pull rings to one side causing the shaft to defect or curve where the wires are coupled to the first and or second steerable devices .

Turning now specifically to the shaft may optionally include an inner layer configured to provide a substantially seamless inner surface of the lumen . The inner layer may also be configured to reduce and or minimize surface friction. According to at least one embodiment the inner layer may include PTFE or the like. The shaft may also include another layer configured to provide the desired stiffness. For example the layer may include Pebax or the like.

Optionally the shaft may include three or more sections configured to provide kink resistance pushability and or flexibility. For example the shaft may include a reinforced section disposed between the first steering device and the second steering device . The reinforced section may be configured to provide increased flexibility which may facilitate navigating the shaft to the left ventricle and configured to provide increased kink resistance. According to at least one embodiment the reinforced section may be spiral reinforced and may have a length of 1 3 inches.

The shaft may also optionally include spiral reinforced section as generally illustrated in . The spiral reinforced section may extend from the first steering device towards the handle assembly for about 7.5 inches. The spiral reinforced section may be configured to provide kink resistance when deflecting the shaft using the first and or second steerable devices . As may be appreciated a kink in the shaft may reduce the ability of the user to locate the distal tip within the left ventricle and may also increase the force needed to push the implant through the lumen during deployment.

The shaft may also optionally include a braided reinforced section . The braided reinforced section may extend from the proximal end of the spiral reinforced section to the handle assembly . The braided reinforced section may be configured to increase the pushability and torsional strength of the shaft while reducing and or minimizing kinking. Increasing the pushability and torsional strength and preventing kinking may be important since the length of the shaft from the groin where the steerable catheter may be introduced to the left ventricle may be fairly long and involve tortuous anatomy.

Turning now to the effects of actuating the first and or second steerable devices on the shaft are generally illustrated. For example generally illustrates one embodiment of a steerable catheter in which the shaft is unbiased. generally illustrates deflection of the distal region . For example a user may actuate the second actuation device for example but not limited to by sliding the second actuation device generally in the direction of arrow A causing the second steerable device to deflect the shaft in a region proximate the second steerable device . As may be seen the second steerable device may cause the shaft to deflect and or bend in a region between the second steerable device and the handle assembly . According to at least one embodiment the second steerable device may generally cause the shaft to deflect and or bend in a region between the second steerable device and the first steerable device . The second steerable device may generally cause the shaft to deflect and or bend up to approximately 180 degrees though angles of curvature greater than 180 degrees are also possible depending on flexibility of the shaft as well as the effects of the shaft needing to bend passively to accommodate the patient s anatomy. The radius of the curvature may be 1.0 inches to 2.0 inches for example 1.25 inches to 1.75 inches.

Turning now to one embodiment generally illustrating the deflecting of both the first and second steering actuators is shown. The first and second steerable devices may generally cause the shaft to deflect and or bend up to approximately 180 degrees though angles of curvature greater than 180 degrees are also possible depending on flexibility of the shaft as well as the effects of the shaft needing to bend passively to accommodate the patient s anatomy. The radius of the curvature may be 1.0 inches to 2.0 inches for example 1.25 inches to 1.75 inches however the exact range of the radius may depend upon the location of the first and second steerable devices as well as the flexibility of the regions .

Turning now to the dilator has been removed from the steerable catheter and the implant not shown may be advanced through the lumen proximate to the distal end . By actuating the first steerable actuator the user may aim and or align the distal end segment and or distal tip of the steerable catheter to the desired location within the left ventricle where it is desired to anchor or secure the implant by deflecting the shaft in the region as generally illustrated by the arrows in representing the deflection of the steerable catheter . Fluoroscopic and or echo guidance may be used to facilitate aiming of the steerable catheter within the left ventricle .

As may be appreciated the location of the first steerable actuator and the region along the shaft may generally correspond to the position of the shaft within the left atrium and or the left ventricle proximate to the mitral valve . Ideally the first steerable actuator would reside somewhere between the annulus of the valve and the valve leaflets. This would provide for the distal section to be pointed relatively straight at the desired anchor location. The differing lengths of the first section may compensate for the variations in the patients valve to apex length although anchoring directly in the apex may not always be the desired location. In the illustrated bend in the catheter may be closer to the valve .

Once the steerable catheter has been positioned through the mitral valve it may be advanced to an implant location within the left ventricle for example but not limited to the apex as generally illustrated in . A heart valve implant may then be delivered to the implant location using one or more delivery catheters and or pushers advanced through the lumen of steerable catheter as well be described below.

Reference is now made to wherein an example heart valve implant illustrated. As shown implant includes anchor assembly and balloon spacer assembly . A proximal end of anchor assembly may be coupled to a delivery guide wire as generally shown in and as will be described later. In general at least a portion of the heart valve implant may be configured to be disposed proximate a mitral valve such that the implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation through the mitral valve.

As will be discussed in detail below anchor assembly and balloon spacer assembly may be configured to be individually delivered and assembled proximate an implant site within a heart. The implant site may be selected such at least a portion of heart valve implant is located proximate to the mitral valve. In addition the heart valve implant may have an overall size and shape configured to accommodate at least in part a patient s anatomy etiology of valve regurgitation and or the limitations of the implant delivery system. In this regard at least one portion of the heart valve implant when deployed may have a dimension that is larger than the internal cross sectional dimensions of steerable catheter and or an implant delivery catheter pusher. In this way heart valve implant may be constructed within the heart to have an external size contour and shape based on at least in part the patient s anatomy and etiology of the regurgitate valve. As such the heart valve implants according to one aspect of the present disclosure may provide an enhanced sealing surface for the leaflets of the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation.

Barbs may be made from any suitable material such as stainless steel a shape memory alloy e.g. a nitinol NiTi shape memory alloy or the like. Without limitation barbs and the body not labeled of anchor are preferably formed from a shape memory alloy such as a nitinol.

In addition to barbs anchor includes anchor mount . In general anchor mount is configured to couple or otherwise attach anchor to anchor stem . Coupling of these components may be achieved mechanically with an adhesive via thermal bonding combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation the anchor mount is preferably configured mechanically engage anchor stem . For example anchor mount may include a threaded proximal portion that is configured to threadably engage with corresponding threads on a distal portion of the anchor stem .

Anchor mount may be manufactured from any suitable material such as but not limited to polymers such as a polyurethane silicone blend. One example of such a blend is the material sold under the trade name ELAST EON by the company AorTech.

Anchor stem generally functions to provide an offset between anchor and balloon spacer assembly . Anchor stem may perform this function independently or in conjunction with latch plug as will be described in detail later with respect to .

In any case anchor stem includes a distal end coupled to anchor and a proximal end coupled to latch plug . Anchor stem may be coupled to latch plug in any suitable manner including mechanically chemically with an adhesive in another manner combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the proximal portion of anchor stem may be threaded and configured to engage with corresponding threads in a distal stem receive portion not shown in of latch plug . This concept is shown in wherein it is shown that latch plug includes stem receive portion which threadably engages a threaded proximal end of anchor stem .

Anchor stem may be manufactured from any suitable material including but not limited to stainless steel nitinol titanium another biocompatible material combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation anchor stem is manufactured from a nitinol.

As illustrated anchor assembly further includes stem sleeve . In general stem sleeve may function to protect or otherwise insulate stem from exposure to the environment within the heart of a patient and vice versa. More specifically stem sleeve may insulate anchor stem from exposure to blood or other bodily fluid which may cause anchor stem to breakdown or otherwise degrade over time. In this same way stem sleeve may also reduce or limit the occurrence of blood clots which may have an enhanced tendency to form if the blood of a patient were to directly contact anchor stem .

Stem sleeve may be manufactured from any suitable biocompatible material including biocompatible polymers such as silicone polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE a biocompatible polyester combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation stem sleeve is preferably formed from a low durometer silicone.

Latch plug is generally configured to enable adjustments to be made to the amount of offset between anchor and balloon spacer assembly . In this regard latch plug may include one or a plurality of contoured regions not labeled which may be configured to engage corresponding locking portions of one or more latches in a balloon spacer assembly as will be discussed later. The number and configuration of the contoured regions may vary widely and may be selected to accommodate a patient s anatomy the etiology of a faulty heart valve combinations thereof and the like. In the illustrated embodiment latch plug includes three contoured regions thus enabling it to be coupled to a latch of a balloon assembly in at least three positions. As may be appreciated and as will be discussed below these features may permit the length of heart valve implant to be adjusted while it is present inside the heart of a patient.

As also shown latch plug may include a proximal portion that is coupled or otherwise attached to delivery guide wire . Coupling of delivery guide wire and the proximal portion of latch plug may be achieved in any suitable matter. For example delivery guide wire and latch plug may be mechanically and reversibly coupled to one another. In some embodiments the proximal end of latch plug may be threaded and configured to threadably engage a corresponding threaded distal portion of delivery guide wire . This concept is shown in wherein it is shown that latch plug includes guide wire receive portion which threadably engages a distal end of delivery guide wire .

Anchor assembly may be configured such that it may be deliverable to an implant site through a lumen of steerable catheter . In this regard all or a portion of anchor assembly may be configured to be collapsed and retained within an anchor retention sheath that is insertable into an anchor delivery catheter having an outside diameter that is less than the inside diameter of a lumen of steerable catheter . The anchor delivery catheter including the loaded anchor retention sheath at a distal end thereof may thus be introduced into the lumen of the steerable catheter and advanced to the implant site. Accordingly the anchor delivery catheter may be constructed to have sufficient flexibility to enable it to navigate through the lumen of the steerable catheter to an implant site.

Reference is now made to which depicts a cross sectional perspective view of an anchor assembly loaded into an anchor delivery system consistent with the present disclosure. In particularly anchor assembly may be loaded into an anchor retention sheath which itself may be inserted into a lumen at a distal end of an anchor delivery catheter consistent with the present disclosure.

As shown anchor may be loaded into anchor retention sheath such that barbs are collapsed forward into a constrained loading position. In the constrained loading position barbs may exert significant outward mechanical force against the walls of anchor retaining sheath . Accordingly the walls not labeled of anchor retention sheath may be configured to withstand such outward forces such that anchor assembly may be retained in a collapsed state as it is delivered to an implant site through the lumen of steerable catheter . In this regard anchor retention sheath may be manufactured from a material that can withstand significant outward forces that may be imparted by barbs in the constrained loaded position. Non limiting examples of such materials include stainless steel and other biocompatible metals and metal alloys.

To facilitate delivery of the anchor assembly to a surgical site anchor retention sheath may include a proximally extending insert portion which may be configured for insertion into a distal end of a lumen of anchor delivery catheter . More particularly insert portion may be configured upon insertion to mechanically or otherwise engage with the interior walls of a lumen of implant delivery catheter thereby retaining anchor retention sheath on a distal end of anchor delivery catheter . This concept is illustrated in wherein proximally extending insert portion of anchor retention sheath is depicted as inserted into a distal end of a lumen of anchor delivery catheter . It is noted that in the illustrated example insert portion is relatively short as compared to the illustrated length of anchor assembly . It should be understood that this illustration is for example only and that the length of insert portion may be longer or shorter e.g. depending on the characteristics of the anchor retention sheath anchor assembly and or anchor delivery catheter .

Anchor delivery catheter may be configured to facilitate the delivery of anchor retention sheath including loaded anchor assembly to an implant site via a lumen of steerable catheter . In this regard anchor delivery catheter may be manufactured from one or more materials having sufficient flexibility to enable anchor retention sheath to push or otherwise advance anchor assembly through the lumen of steerable catheter . As non limiting examples of materials that may be used to form anchor delivery catheter mention is made of biocompatible polymers such as PTFE polyurethane biocompatible polyester polyether ether ketone PEEK combinations thereof and the like.

As further shown in anchor assembly may loaded in anchor retention sheath such that delivery guide wire coupled to guide wire receive portion of latch plug extends proximally therefrom. Delivery guide wire may further proximally extent through a lumen of anchor delivery catheter and ultimately to a region to the exterior of a patient. As will be described later delivery guide wire may be used to facilitate the positioning and coupling of balloon spacer assembly with anchor assembly after anchor assembly is deployed from anchor retention sheath to engage native coronary tissue. This concept is illustrated in wherein delivery guide wire is depicted as extended proximally through a lumen not labeled of anchor delivery catheter .

Once anchor assembly is loaded in anchor retention sheath anchor retention sheath may be advanced through a lumen of steerable catheter to an implant site. This concept is illustrated in which depicts an example of an anchor retention sheath disposed at the end of an anchor delivery catheter which has been advanced through a lumen of steerable catheter to an implant site not labeled at a distal end of steerable catheter . Advancement of the anchor retention sheath through the lumen of steerable catheter may be accomplished by pushing anchor retention sheath with the distal end of anchor deliver catheter .

Once a loaded anchor retention sheath is present at a surgical site anchor assembly may be deployed. In this regard anchor assembly may be pushed out of anchor retention sheath e.g. by the exertion of force by delivery guide wire so as to release barbs from the constrained loaded position. As barbs are released from the constrained loaded position they may spring back to an expanded deployed position such as the position shown in . This concept is illustrated in which depicts anchor assembly as it is initially deployed from anchor retention sheath . As shown barbs now free of constraint by anchor retention sheath have sprung back to an expanded deployed position.

In some embodiments deployment of anchor assembly from anchor retention sheath may occur in a manner such that barbs engage native coronary tissue as anchor assembly is deployed. More specifically when anchor assembly is initially deployed from anchor retention sheath barbs may engage and or enter native coronary tissue prior to springing back to an expanded deployed position. In such instances the spring like motion of barbs when deployed may cause them to embed in native coronary tissue. In some instances barbs may act to draw anchor towards the native coronary tissue which may cause bards to further embed within the tissue. This may enhance the engagement and retention of anchor assembly to the native coronary tissue. The deployment of anchor assembly may then be completed by fully pushing anchor assembly out of anchor retention sheath . Anchor retention sheath and anchor delivery catheter may then be withdrawn leaving delivery guide wire extending from guide wire receive portion through the lumen of steerable catheter . A balloon spacer assembly consistent with the present disclosure may then be advanced through lumen of steerable catheter and over delivery guide wire to a position proximate to the deployed anchor assembly.

Reference is now may to which illustrate exploded and perspective views of an example balloon spacer assembly consistent with the present disclosure. As shown balloon spacer assembly includes proximal end cap . Proximal end cap is generally configured to hermetically seal the proximal end of balloon as generally shown in and to couple or otherwise attach balloon spacer assembly to a pusher assembly as will be described later. Proximal end cap also includes a lumen through a central portion thereof which is of sufficient diameter to allow delivery guide wire and a valve wire described later to freely pass there through. Proximal end cap may be formed from any suitable biocompatible materials such as one or more biocompatible polymers or polymer blends. One example of a suitable polymer blend that may be used to form proximal end cap is the polyurethane silicone blend sold by AorTech under the trade name ELAST EON .

The distal end of proximal end cap may be configured to couple with central tube of balloon spacer assembly as generally shown in . Coupling of proximal end cap to central tube may be accomplished in any manner. For example proximal end cap may be coupled to central tube mechanically with an adhesive with a heat bond or a combination thereof. In the case of adhesive bonding the proximal portion of central tube may be etched prior to the application of adhesive. Such etching may enhance or strengthen the adhesive bond with central tube particularly if central tube is manufactured from a material such as PTFE.

Like proximal end cap central tube may include lumen extending from a distal portion to a proximal portion thereof. The lumen of the central tube may be of sufficient diameter to allow delivery guide wire and a valve wire described later to freely pass there through. The lumen of central tube may align with the lumen of proximal end cap when such components are coupled to one another. As a result delivery guide wire and valve wire may freely extend from guide wire receive portion of latch plug though the lumen of central tube through the lumen of proximal end cap and into a lumen of a pusher catheter coupled to proximal end cap .

As will be described in detail later central tube may be configured alone or in connection with other components to enable the filling of balloon with a fluid. In this regard central tube may include one or more valves formed in a surface thereof. For example central tube may include one or more valve openings such as proximal valve opening and distal valve opening illustrated in . Such openings may facilitate the flow of fluid e.g. saline another type of fluid or the like introduced into the lumen of central tube into and out of balloon . Valve may perform this function in conjunction with one or more additional components such as valve sleeve and a valve wire such as valve wire shown in and .

Valve sleeve of balloon spacer assembly is generally configured to snugly envelope the outer circumference of central tube as generally shown in . Accordingly valve sleeve may be manufactured from a resiliently deformable material that is capable of snugly engaging the outer surface of central tube . By way of example valve sleeve may be manufactured from a low durometer silicone which may have material properties that allow valve sleeve to snugly deform around central tube . Of course such material is exemplary only and other suitable materials may be used to form valve sleeve . In any case a portion of valve sleeve may be adhered or otherwise bonded to central tube at a position proximal to proximal to valve and its associate openings.

As will be described later in conjunction with and valve sleeve may act as a plug for either or both proximal valve opening and distal valve opening . The plug formed by valve sleeve may be opened by a valve wire such as valve wire shown in and . For the sake of illustration and ease of understanding illustrate central tube valve and valve sleeve but omit a valve wire such as valve wire . As such valve in may be understood to be in a locked position wherein valve sleeve snugly engages the surface of central tube and effectively plugs proximal and distal valve openings and .

While various FIGS. depict valve as including two valve openings greater or fewer openings may be employed. For example valve may include 3 4 5 or more holes provided that such holes may be adequately sealed by valve sleeve and may be opened by one or more valve wires. Similarly central tube may include more than one valve formed therein. For example central tube may include 2 3 4 5 or more valves formed therein. In such instances each valve may include corresponding proximal and distal valve openings as well as corresponding valve wires.

As further shown in and B balloon spacer assembly includes latch housing proximal latch latch spacer distal latch and distal plug . Like central tube each of these components includes a lumen extending there through each of which may be appropriately sized to permit the free passage of delivery guide wire . In addition the interior of each of these components may be configured to sealining engage with a outer surface features of a latch plug of an anchor assembly consistent with the present disclosure such as latch plug .

In addition these components may be configured to couple with one another so as to form a unitary latch assembly as generally depicted in . In this regard the lumen in a distal portion of latch housing may be sized or otherwise configured to receive proximal latch and a proximal portion of latch spacer therein. Similarly the lumen in a distal portion of latch spacer may be sized or otherwise configured to receive distal latch and distal plug therein. Once those components are assembled as described above they may be heat bonded or otherwise fixedly coupled to one another e.g. with an adhesive so as to form a unitary latch assembly.

Latch housing latch spacer and distal plug may be manufactured from any suitable material such as a biocompatible polymeric material. In some embodiments each of these components is formed from a polyurethane silicone blend such as the blend sold under the trade name ELAST EON by AorTech.

As will be described in detail later proximal and distal latches may be configured to resiliently engage one or more contoured portions of a latch plug of an anchor assembly such as contoured portions of latch plug shown in . In this regard proximal and distal latches and may be formed from any material capable of sufficiently engaging and retaining a latch plug while withstanding forces that may be applied to heart valve implant when implanted in a heart. Non limiting examples of suitable materials that may be used to form proximal and distal latches include stainless steel titanium shape memory alloys such as a nickel titanium shape memory alloy e.g. nitinol combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation proximal and distal latches are preferably formed from a shape memory alloy such as nitinol.

In some embodiments proximal and distal latches may be formed from a body temperature activated nitinol. In those embodiments latches may be configured to releasably engage a latch plug of an anchor assembly. This may allow for readjustment in particular lengthening of the heart valve implant after it is implanted in a heart. For example if proximal and distal latches are formed from a body temperature activated nitinol such latches may be configured to open after in response to cooling e.g. with cold saline introduced via proximal end cap or through another mechanism. Once opened a latch plug previously engaged by one or both of latches may be moved distally thereby lengthening heart valve implant .

With further reference to balloon spacer assembly also includes pledget support and pledget . Pledget support may be coupled by heat binding or an adhesive to all or a portion of the latch assembly made up of latch housing proximal latch latch spacer distal latch and distal plug discussed above. In particular pledget support may be bonded or otherwise coupled to the latch assembly so as to be disposed over at least a portion of proximal and or distal latches and . Pledget may be heat bonded or otherwise coupled to pledget support .

As shown in pledget support includes a lumen not labeled there through. As will be discussed later the lumen of pledget support may be configured to receive latch plug of anchor assembly therein as anchor assembly is coupled to balloon spacer assembly . In some embodiments pledget support and pledget may individually or collective act to apply a compressive force against latch plug and proximal and or distal latches with which latch plug may be engaged. In this way pledget support and or pledget may apply an inward force that may resist proximal movement of latch plug through one or both of proximal and distal latches . In some embodiments the inward force applied by pledget support and or pledget may be sufficient to resist limit or prevent unwanted proximal movement of latch plug through proximal and or distal latches after heart valve implant is implanted in a heart of a patient.

In some embodiments pledget support may formed from a biocompatible polymer such as silicone another biocompatible elastomeric composition. In such instances a plurality of holes may be formed in pledget support so as to cause the material to act as a polymer spring that applies an inward force to all of a portion of the latch assembly. This concept is illustrated in wherein pledget support is depicted as including a plurality of holes formed therein.

As noted previously pledget may be heat bonded or otherwise adhered to pledget support . Any suitable material may be used to form pledget . For example pledget may be made of or include a biocompatible fabric such as Dacron an expanded PTFE fabric such as a GORE TEX fabric an implantable polyester fabric combinations thereof and the like.

As noted previously balloon spacer assembly includes balloon . Balloon is generally configured to define a cavity for receipt of a filling fluid e.g. saline air another fluid etc. which may be introduce through valve . As shown in and B balloon may sealably engage proximal end cap and one or more components of the latch assembly described above so as to form a sealed chamber with central tube extending there through. In this regard balloon may be bonded to other components of balloon assembly in any suitable manner including heat bonding adhesive bonding chemical bonding or the like. Balloon may be formed from any suitable biocompatible material that is capable of being deflated for delivery through a catheter and inflated within a heart to an expanded fluid filled configuration. Non limiting examples of suitable materials for forming balloon include PTFE implantable polyesters polyurethane silicone blends combinations thereof and the like. Without limitation balloon is preferably formed from a polyurethane silicone blend such as the polyurethane silicone blend sold under the trade name ELAST EON by AorTech.

Although not shown in or B balloon spacer assembly may further include one or more radiopaque markers. Such radiopaque markers may be placed at any suitable location on or within balloon assembly so as to facilitate viewing of the assembly as it is inserted e.g. view fluoroscopy intracardiac echo ICE or another technique. In some embodiments one or more radiopaque markers are positioned distal to valve in central tube . This concept is illustrated in wherein radiopaque marker is shown positioned on an outer surface of central tube distal to proximal and distal valve openings . Of course such positioning is for example only and radiopaque markers may be placed at any suitable location on or within balloon assembly such as proximal and distal to balloon .

The components illustrated in may be assembled as discussed above to form a unitary balloon spacer assembly of the general configuration shown in . Once assembled balloon spacer assembly may be coupled to a delivery catheter such as the pusher catheter illustrated in . In this regard proximal end cap of balloon spacer assembly may be configured to mechanically engage coupling located at a distal end of pusher catheter as generally shown in . Any type of mechanical coupling may be used to couple coupling of pusher catheter to proximal end cap provided that such mechanical coupling may enable coupling to be decoupled from proximal end cap when balloon spacer assembly is deployed in a heart.

Without limitation proximal end cap and coupling are preferably configured to threadably engage one another so as to retain balloon assembly on a distal portion of pusher catheter . This concept is illustrated in wherein proximal end cap is illustrated as including threads on an inner surface of its lumen. In this embodiment threads may be configured to threadably engage corresponding threads on a distal outer portion of coupling . Coupling and decoupling of balloon spacer assembly may therefore be performed by rotating pusher catheter and hence coupling to engage and disengage threads of proximal end cap .

In addition to the foregoing features pusher catheter including coupling may include a lumen extending from a proximal portion thereof to a distal portion thereof. The lumen may be sized appropriate to permit a delivery guide wire e.g. delivery guide wire and a valve wire e.g. valve wire to be freely disposed therein. This concept is generally shown in wherein pusher catheter and coupling are illustrated as including a lumen in a central portion thereof with delivery guide wire and valve wire extending proximally there through.

In addition to hosting delivery guide wire and valve wire lumen of pusher catheter may facilitate the inflation and or deflation of balloon of balloon spacer assembly . In this regard a proximal portion not shown of pusher catheter may be fluidly coupled to a source of fluid such as a saline reservoir. Prior to insertion of balloon assembly into a lumen of steerable catheter balloon may be subject to a de airing process. The purpose of the de airing process is to remove air from the internal chamber of balloon prior to implantation so as to avoid or lessen the risk of introducing a dangerous air embolism into the vasculature of a patient e.g. in the event that balloon may leak or be structurally compromised during or after implantation. In this regard balloon may be repeated filled with and drained of fluid e.g. by the introduction and withdrawal of fluid e.g. saline through lumen from a fluid source coupled to a proximal portion of pusher catheter .

Once balloon is de aired balloon spacer assembly coupled to distal end of pusher catheter may be inserted into the lumen of steerable catheter and advanced e.g. pushed through the lumen of steerable catheter with pusher catheter . During this process delivery guide wire and valve wire may be disposed through the lumens of the respective components of balloon assembly such that they extend through the entire assembly as generally shown in . Pusher catheter may therefore be configured to have sufficient flexibility to navigate and push balloon spacer assembly through the route defined by the lumen of steerable catheter and along delivery guide wire and valve wire . In this regard pusher catheter may be formed from any suitable biocompatible material such as a biocompatible polymeric material including but not limited to those specified as suitable for use in an anchor delivery catheter. In this way balloon assembly may be delivered through the lumen of steerable catheter to a position proximate to anchor assembly within the heart of a patient.

With reference to balloon assembly at this point may be urged by pusher catheter forward such that a distal end of balloon assembly e.g. pledget support a distal end of the latch assembly e.g. distal plug contacts and receives latch plug of anchor assembly in a lumen thereof. In this regard the lumen in a distal end of the latch assembly e.g. in distal plug may be configured to receive a proximal end of latch plug therein. Alignment of the lumen in distal plug and the proximal end of latch plug may be facilitated by delivery guide wire which is coupled to the proximal end of latch plug and extends through all of the respective lumens of the various components of balloon spacer assembly .

As shown in balloon assembly may be further urged forward by pusher catheter such that latch plug moves proximally through the lumen of distal plug and mechanically engages locking elements of distal latch . More specifically and with reference to proximal and distal latches and may include one or more locking elements that may resiliently deform to receive and sealingly engage latch plug of anchor assembly . More specifically proximal and distal latches and may include locking elements in the form of one or more resiliently deformable locking arms e.g. pawls not labeled as generally illustrated in . As balloon spacer assembly is urged against latch plug a proximal contoured portion of latch plug e.g. contoured portion in may contact locking element s of distal latch e.g. one or more resiliently deformable locking arms.

With the application of sufficient force by pusher catheter the proximal contoured portion of latch plug may resiliently deform locking element s of distal latch outwards. The proximal contoured portion and latch plug may then advance proximally past locking element s of distal latch . Upon sufficient travel of latch plug locking element s may then return to their initial position and lock behind a ridge of latch plug distal to the proximal contoured portion e.g. ridge shown in . This may lock latch plug in between the initial proximal contoured portion and a medial contoured portion of latch plug . This concept is shown in wherein locking element s of distal latch is are in the form of resiliently deformable locking arms that are position to engage a ridge of latch plug after latch plug has partially moved through distal latch .

In addition to the foregoing the contoured portions of latch plug may be configured to engage with corresponding interior features of the lumens in elements of the balloon assembly . In this way latch plug may form a fluid tight seal with the interior features of such lumens thus creating a fluid seal proximate to distal end of balloon . This seal may facilitate filling of balloon with a fluid as discussed generally below.

As may be appreciated locking element s may permit further proximal movement e.g. to shorten heart valve implant but may inhibit of prevent distal movement of the anchor assembly from the balloon assembly after locking elements have engaged a ridge of latch plug . This concept is shown in D and E wherein in response to further urging by pusher catheter latch plug further advances proximally through distal latch by resiliently deforming locking element s thereof. In this regard latch plug may be configured to include multiple contoured and ridge portions which may define several locking zones that may engage and lock with locking elements of proximal and or distal latches .

This concept is shown in wherein latch plug is depicted as including multiple contoured regions and multiple corresponding ridges . As latch plug is advanced proximally through proximal and distal latches locking element s of such latches may be resiliently deformed by contoured regions of latch plug . With the passage of each contoured region locking element s may spring back and engage with a corresponding ridge thus hindering or preventing distal movement of anchor assembly . This concept is illustrated in wherein latch plug is depicted as having been advanced proximally through distal latch and proximal latch such that locking element s of proximal latch engage a distal ridge not labeled of latch plug .

In this way the features of latch plug and proximal and or distal latches may enable one way adjustment of the length of heart valve implant within the heart of a patient. This concept is generally shown in which illustrate the initial coupling of balloon spacer assembly with anchor assembly and subsequent length adjustments from a maximum length to a minimum length . This feature may be useful to adjust the length of heart valve implant to account for patient anatomy etiology of the valve defect the heart valve implant is being used to address or for some other reason.

As generally described above various features of the balloon assembly and anchor assembly described herein may enable one way adjustment i.e. shortening of the length of a heart valve implant. Although useful it may be desired in some instances to reverse the shortening of a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure. As noted previously two way length adjustment capabilities may be achieved by forming proximal and distal latches of a body temperature activated shape memory alloy such as a body temperature activated nitinol. In such instances locking element s may be configured at body temperature to expand and lock behind one or more ridges of a latch plug as discussed above. However locking of the locking element s in these embodiments may be reversed by adjusting the temperature of the shape memory alloy used to form the latches including locking element s . For example locking elements may be configured to unlock upon exposure to a relative cold fluid that drops the temperature of locking element s below their transition temperature. Once opened in this fashion latch plug may be moved distally e.g. by pushing on delivery guide wire .

As described above an anchor assembly and a balloon spacer assembly consistent with the present disclosure may each be trans femorally delivered to an implantation site within a human heart view a lumen of a steerable catheter. Once the anchor assembly is engaged with native coronary tissue the balloon spacer assembly may be delivered and coupled to the anchor assembly within the heart as described above. The length of the resulting heart valve implant may then be adjusted as previously described such that a balloon of the balloon spacer assembly is appropriately positioned within a heart. By way of example the resulting heart valve implant may be positioned such that a balloon of the balloon spacer is positioned within a mitral valve of a patient as shown in .

As noted previously the balloon of the balloon spacer may be de aired prior and deflated prior to insertion into a lumen of a steerable catheter and delivery to a location proximate to an implant site within a heart. With this in mind before or after length adjustments are performed the balloon of the balloon spacer assembly may be inflated with an inflation medium such as saline or another fluid. Inflation of the balloon may be performed in any suitable manner and may cause the balloon to assume a desired shape or profile. For example the balloon may be inflated such that it contacts or otherwise engages the leaflets of a mitral valve thereby mitigating or eliminating excessive regurgitation there through. This concept is shown in wherein heart valve implant includes a balloon not labeled which has been positioned and inflated such that it contacts one or more leaflets not labeled of mitral valve .

As described previously in connection with and as highlighted in balloon spacer assembly may be configured to include a central tube a valve and a valve sleeve . As will be described below these components may form in conjunction with a valve wire a balloon valve system that may control the filling and deflation of balloon of balloon assembly .

In this regard reference is made to and which depict various views of an example balloon valve system consistent with the present disclosure. As shown in those FIGS and explained above the balloon valve system includes central tube valve valve sleeve and valve wire . As shown in these components may be disposed within balloon of balloon assembly . Valve wire may be made of any suitable material such as a metal metal alloy e.g. nitinol stainless steel etc. or the like. In some embodiments valve wire is in the form of a braided metal wire such as a braided stainless steel or nitinol wire.

Turning now to an example balloon valve system in an open position is illustrated. As shown valve includes proximal and distal openings formed through an outer wall of central tube so as to provide access to and from a lumen and exterior of central tube . Proximal opening is generally configured to receive valve wire there through and to facilitate the proximal and distal movement of valve wire beneath valve sleeve . In this regard proximal opening may be contoured or angled so as to ease or facilitate the transition of valve wire from within a lumen of central tube to a region between the exterior of central tube and valve sleeve . For example all or a portion of the distal circumference of proximal opening may be graded and or angled from about 15 to about 45 degrees such as about 15 to about 30 degrees or even about 15 to about 25 degrees.

To facilitate movement and or other functions valve wire may be configured to include a blunt tip. This concept is illustrated in wherein valve wire is illustrated as including a blunt tip in the form of a ball at a distal end thereof. Of course valve wire need not have a spherical or ball shaped tip. Indeed valve wire may be capped with a blunt tip of any suitable geometry. In some embodiments blunt tip may be configured to facilitate movement between valve sleeve and central tube . For example blunt tip may be configured to allow valve wire to slide between valve sleeve and central tube without scratching or otherwise marring the exterior of central tube .

In any case valve wire may be advanced through proximal opening and beneath valve sleeve as generally illustrated. As it moves between valve sleeve and an exterior of central tube valve wire may cause valve sleeve to deform and tent as shown in . This may cause one or more openings to form between the outer portion of central tube valve wire and valve sleeve . If valve wire is advanced sufficiently such that its distal tip emerges from underneath valve sleeve openings may extend from distal opening and potentially proximal opening to an exterior of central tube and an interior of balloon .

With valve wire in the position shown in balloon may be filled by conveying a filling medium such as saline through a lumen of pusher which is coupled to a proximal end cap of balloon assembly . The fluid may flow from the lumen of pusher through the lumen of proximal end cap through the lumen of central tube through proximal and or distal openings through opening s and into balloon . Withdrawal of the filling medium from balloon may also be achieved with the valve wire in this position e.g. by applying suction or another withdrawing force to the lumen of the steerable catheter.

The balloon valve system may be closed by partially or fully withdrawing valve wire i.e. by retracting the distal end of valve wire beneath a distal edge of valve sleeve . To illustrate this concept reference is made to wherein a balloon valve system in a closed position is depicted. As shown in these FIGS. valve wire has been retracted such that its distal end is underneath the distal edge of valve sheath . Although not shown sufficient retraction of valve wire may have the effect of closing openings that may be present when valve wire is extended to or past the distal edge of valve sheath . This is because valve sheath may be formed of a resiliently deformable material that may snugly envelope the outer surface of central tube when valve wire is retracted. In other words valve sheath may upon retraction of valve wire snugly engage the outer surface of central tube and form a fluid tight seal thus preventing fluid from entering or exiting balloon .

As shown in and E the balloon valve system may be closed without fully withdrawing valve wire . That is the balloon valve system may be closed by retracting valve wire such that its distal tip is between proximal opening and the distal edge of valve sleeve . In this position the balloon valve system is closed and the balloon may be observed and or tested to determine whether it is filled to a desired degree. If adjustment to filling of the balloon is desired valve wire may be advanced distally to create openings through which fluid may be added or removed. Once the balloon is filled to a desired degree the valve system may be permanently or semi permanently locked by withdrawing valve wire through proximal opening and ultimately out of the lumen of pusher .

At this point an inflated heart valve implant has been implanted into a heart of the patient. However the heart valve implant may remain coupled to delivery guide with and or pusher . Delivery guide wire may be detached by applying rotational or torsional force. Such force s may cause guide wire to threadably decouple from guide wire receive portion of latch plug . Once decoupled guide wire may be retracted through the lumens of the heart valve implant components and pusher .

Pusher may then be decoupled from the proximal end of balloon assembly . For example where pusher includes a coupling that is threadably engaged with proximal end cap of a balloon assembly the pusher may be disengaged by applying rotational and or torsional force to the pusher. Such force s may cause coupling to rotate and threadably disengage from proximal end cap . Once decoupled the pusher may be withdrawn though the lumen of the steerable catheter. At this point heart valve implant is free of connections and may be considered fully implanted in a heart.

Once the heart valve implant has been implanted the steerable catheter may be removed from the left ventricle and ultimately from the heart and the patient s body. According to one embodiment the steerable catheter may be removed by urging the steerable catheter proximally i.e. away from the left ventricle . The first steering actuator may be used to minimize the force applied against the implant by the steerable catheter as the implant exits the lumen of the steerable catheter . If the force applied to the implant by the steerable catheter as the implant exits the lumen of the steerable catheter is too great damage may occur to the heart proximate to the implant site and or the implant may be accidentally pulled out and or disconnected from the tissue.

According to one embodiment the force applied to the implant by the steerable catheter as the implant exits the lumen of the steerable catheter may be further reduced with the aid of the second or more steerable actuators . For example turning to one embodiment generally illustrating the deflection withdrawal sequence of a steerable catheter having at least a first and a second steerable actuator is shown. generally illustrates one embodiment of the steerable catheter . The implant not shown has been secured to the tissue. The second steerable actuator is illustrated in the straight position i.e. the second steerable actuator is not urging the shaft of the steerable catheter . The region between the second steerable actuator and the first steerable actuator for example but not limited the distal most 3 inches of the shaft is over the implant from the apex of the left ventricle up to the mitral valve . The first steerable actuator is in the bent or curved position to deflect the shaft in order to accommodate the curve or bend from the mitral valve through the transseptal puncture site and into the right atrium .

As the steerable catheter is withdrawn from the left ventricle the region of the steerable catheter may start to encounter the curvature in the left atrium between the mitral valve and the transseptal puncture site . In order to accommodate this curvature the second actuation device may be actuated to deflect the region of the shaft of the steerable catheter as generally illustrated in . Deflecting the region of the shaft may reduce drag of the steerable catheter on the implant and may also reduce the likelihood of dislodging the implant from the tissue. While deflecting the region the user may also un bend the region of the shaft as the region is moving through the transseptal puncture site and into a region of reduced curvature. As the steerable catheter is further removed the second actuation device may be un bent to un bend the region of the shaft as it moves through the transseptal puncture site as generally illustrated in . At this point both regions of the shaft may be somewhat curved passively by the anatomy alone.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to an apparatus system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which it is fairly legally and equitably entitled.

