---

title: Alignment of signal copies from an asynchronous sensor network
abstract: Various embodiments associated with resampling signal copies for asynchronous sensors are described. A plurality of asynchronous sensors that sample signals at different frequencies can be distributed in an area. These sensors can sense a signal of interest for an entity. The sensors can send copies of the signal of interest that they have sensed to a system of the entity for processing. However, since the sensors are asynchronous the copies are sampled at different sampling time periods or sampling frequencies. A specific copy of the signal of interest can be selected from among the copies as a reference to estimate relative sampling frequency offset and the remaining copies can be resampled such that their resampled sampling time period or sampling frequency align with the reference signal. With the copies aligned, combination of the copies occurs and further processing can take place.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426007&OS=09426007&RS=09426007
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09426007
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130722
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In a combat environment different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.

A system comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium is described. The non transitory computer readable medium is communicatively coupled to the processor and stores a processor executable command set to facilitate operation of components comprising an identification component and a resample component. The identification component is configured to identify a first signal copy as a reference signal where the first signal copy is a copy of a signal of interest from a first sensor where the first signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a first sampling time period. The resample component is configured to resample a second signal copy of the signal of interest in accordance with the first sampling time period to produce a resampled second signal copy where the second signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a second sampling time period where the first sampling time period and the second sampling time period are different and where the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors.

A system comprising a receiver a selection component a resample component and a fusion component is described. The receiver receives a first signal copy of a signal of interest from a first sensor and that receives a second signal copy of the signal of interest from a second sensor where the first signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a first sampling frequency where the second signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a second sampling frequency where the first sampling frequency and the second sampling frequency are different and where the first sensor and second sensor are different non cooperative sensors. The selection component selects the first signal copy as a reference signal. The resample component resamples the second signal copy according to the first sampling frequency to produce a resampled second signal copy. The fusion component fuses the first signal copy and the resampled second signal copy into a combined signal of the signal of interest.

A non transitory computer readable medium configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method is described. The method comprises receiving a first signal copy of a signal of interest from a first sensor where the first signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a first sampling time period. The method also comprises receiving a second signal copy of a signal of interest from a second sensor where the second signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a second sampling time period where the first sampling time period is different from the second sampling time period where the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors and where the first sensor and second sensor are asynchronous. The method further comprises identifying the first sampling time period. In addition the method comprises resampling the second signal copy in accordance with the first sampling time period to produce a resampled second signal copy where the resampled second signal copy and the first signal copy have the same sampling time period. The method also comprises fusing the first signal copy and the second signal copy into a fused signal copy along with matching the signal of interest with a known signal. The method additionally comprises identifying a modulation scheme associated with the known signal demodulating the signal of interest through use of the modulation scheme and outputting the signal of interest after demodulation.

A simple but effective method can be used to estimate sampling offsets of distributed digital signal copies in sensor networks without knowing the actual sampling frequencies. Asynchronous digital signal copies can be coherently combined after estimating the sampling frequency offset without adjusting the sensor parameters or tuning the sampling clocks. The properly combined signal from the distributed sensors can achieve a higher processing gain for reliable signal exploitation.

Distributed signal sensing and classification can be practiced through multiple antenna based coherent signal combining and exploitation. However when multiple antenna practices extend to multiple asynchronous and heterogeneous sensors in distributed geographic locations the distributed signal copies may be asynchronous or may not be able to be synchronized e.g. perfectly synchronized . With this the carrier phases carrier frequencies symbol timing and sampling frequency among sensors are all different. Consequently a fusion center can be employed to estimate relative phase offset RPO induced by different local oscillators LOs channels and filters relative time offset RTO induced by different propagation paths and sampling clocks and relative frequency offset RFO induced by different LOs and the Doppler effect. However estimation of those offsets and the combining of multiple signal copies may be difficult if the signal copies are sampled at the different frequencies due to diversity and drifts of sampling clocks of respective sensors. In such case samples of signal copies are not lined up in time due to the existence of the relative sampling frequency offset RSO between digital signal copies. A method can be employed to estimate RSO without the knowledge of actual sampling rates at the distributed sensors.

A central decision based distributed signal sensing method can use simple inexpensive low maintenance and heterogeneous sensors. These sensors can be deployed to cover a wide spread geographical area seamlessly and multiple narrow band receivers can be collaborated to handle a wide frequency band effectively. The distributed sensors can be clustered and orchestrated by a fusion center which has sufficient processing power and time to estimate analyze and process the data delivered by the sensors to generate an enhanced signal for detection classification and blind demodulation. The fusion center can send a periodic requesting signal to L distributed sensors R R . . . and Rto acquire a weak signal of interest SOI . Upon the reception of the request the distributed sensors can take short time duration snapshots of the SOT. The distributed sensors can be configured to provide very limited signal processing capabilities such as radio frequency reception and transmission frequency tuning and down conversion filtering and digitization. Thus the sensors are asynchronous and non cooperative to one another and are used for communicating with or relaying distributed snapshots to the fusion center.

Under a dumb sensor scenario the sensors do not make local decisions but store the short snapshots r t i 1 2 . . . L as time stamped data packets and forward them to the fusion center for processing. The packets can be transmitted to the fusion center using various communication methods. Without loss of generality Rcan function as a reference sensor R R . . . and Rcan be compared to Rfor calculating all offsets. In one embodiment channels have no noticeable change within a very short collection time period.

When signal sampling clocks are not in the same frequency then the sampling time periods Tand Tbetween two adjacent samples in rand rare not the same. Therefore SOI copies digitized at rand rare sampled at t kTand t kT respectively where k is a positive integer. If the discrete times are normalized to a common reference r that is

Defining and to be the oversampling rate of rand r respectively which can be measured by using the spectrum based symbol frequency estimation methods the symbol time period can be represented by 5 which yields the RSO

Therefore after being estimated by the Symbol Frequency Estimators it can be used by the FSO Calculator to computer the RSO and re sampling rate. Knowledge of the actual values of both Tand Tmay not be known in estimating T.

A coherently combined signal can be a more accurate description of the SOT which can be used for spectrum sensing signal detection modulation classification geolocation specific emitter identification and many other signal estimation applications.

The peaks induced by the normalized symbol frequency T T are observed at 0.25 for rand 0.2 for rso that the over sampling rates are estimated to be 1 0.25 4 1 0.2 5 the sampling time period offset is T 0.8 and the resampling rate is r 1.25.

After estimating offsets the signals can be interpreted and resampled at the same sampling rate so other offsets can be estimated and multiple signals can be combined coherently to improve the signal quality. A coherently combined signal can have much lower bit error rate BER than the former. Roughly speaking the more sensors you use the lower the BER will be.

Distributed sensors can be used for collecting and classifying a weak signal and may have superior classification performance than using a single sensor. However the digitized signal copies in an asynchronous sensor network may be sampled at different sampling time periods due to diversity and drifts of sampling clocks of respective sensors. In such case samples of signal copies are not lined up in time due to the existence of the relative sampling frequency offset between digital signal copies and an alignment method can be used to correct this situation.

In one embodiment asynchronous and heterogenous sensors can be used to leverage low cost or existing communication devices and networks without significant investment. The relative sampling frequency offsets RSO between signal copies can be estimated and compensated before the signal copies can be further processed. The RSO can be obtained by estimating the oversampling rates without knowing the actual symbol frequency of the SOI and the sampling frequencies at distributed sensors. Therefore other parameter offsets such as RFO RTO and RPO can be estimated and the signal can be coherently combined.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

A plurality of asynchronous sensors that sample signals at different frequencies can be distributed in an area. These sensors can sense a signal of interest for an entity. The sensors can send copies of the signal of interest that they have sensed to a system of the entity for processing. However since the sensors are asynchronous the copies are sampled at different sampling time periods or sampling frequencies. A frequency can be selected from among the copies as a reference signal to estimate the RSO and the remaining copies can be resampled such that their resampled sampling time period or sampling frequency align with the reference signal. With the copies aligned combination of the copies occurs and further processing can take place.

The identification component is configured to identify the first signal copy as a reference signal. The first signal copy is a copy of a signal of interest from the first sensor and is a digital signal sampled at a first sampling time period. In one embodiment the identification component chooses the first signal copy as the reference signal. This choice can be based on the first signal copy being the first signal copy received in time the first signal copy being the easiest to identify its sampling time period as compared to other signal copies etc.

The resample component is configured to resample the second signal copy e.g. and estimate RSO of the signal of interest in accordance with the first sampling time period to produce a resampled second signal copy . The second signal copy is a digital signal sampled at a second sampling time period. The first sampling time period and the second sampling time period are different and the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors e.g. different physical sensors different models of sensors different brands of sensors etc. . Therefore the system can function such that the first signal copy and resampled second signal copy are made available and have the same sampling time period or frequency.

In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the first signal copy . In addition the second sensor is part of a second personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the second signal copy . In one example military radios of individual soldiers can function as the first sensor and the second sensor . These radios can have the primary function of allowing soldiers to communicate with one another. When they are not employed for that primary function the radios can function as the sensors and . In one example the first personal electronic device can be a first smartphone while the second electronic device can be a second smartphone. These smartphones can be different smartphones in that they are different physical smartphones different versions of a same smartphone different smartphone models smartphones made by different manufacturers etc.

In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first network the second sensor is part of a second network and the first network and second network are different networks. In one example the first sensor can be a smartphone that uses a network of a first cellular carrier and the second sensor can be a non smart cellular telephone that uses a network of a second cellular carrier. These cellular carriers can operate different networks. In one example the first sensor can be a global positioning system and the second sensor can be a tablet personal computer.

The personal electronic devices may or may not be made aware of their use as the first sensor or the second sensor . In one embodiment the system can request a personal electronic device or other device to function as the first sensor or second sensor . In one embodiment the system can identify a personal electronic device or other device that can be the first sensor or second sensor and or cause that personal electronic device or other device to become the first sensor or second sensor .

The system can include and or have access to a database e.g. a database that is a non transitory computer readable medium . The database can include a plurality of known signals such as known signals . The known signals are associated with modulation schemes respectively. The signal of interest can be compared individually with the known signals . A known signal that is most alike the signal of interest can be identified by the match component . Thus the demodulation scheme associated with the most alike known signal can be appointed as the modulation scheme for the signal of interest .

In one embodiment the known signals can be individually subtracted from the signal of interest or the signal of interest can be individually subtracted from the known signals . A known signal with the smallest remaining signal can be considered a best match. In one example the known signal can have the best match of the signal of interest and therefore the modulation scheme is appointed as the modulation scheme for the signal of interest .

In one embodiment the match component compares a constellation of the signal of interest with constellations of the known signals . The result from the constellation comparison is used by the match component to match the signal of interest with one of the known signals . It is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while three known signals with three modulation schemes are illustrated more or less than three can be used.

In one embodiment the match component is configured to match the signal of interest with one of the known signals before the fusion component fuses the first signal copy of with the resampled second signal copy of into the fused copy of e.g. fused copy of the signal of interest . Therefore matching with a known signal along with appointment of the modulation scheme can occur before or after signal copies are fused together by the fusion component .

The selection component can select the first signal copy that is obtained from the first sensor as a reference signal. Various selection methods can be used to select the first signal copy as the reference signal e.g. methods used to choose the reference time by the identification component of .

The resample component can resample the second signal copy according to the first sampling frequency to produce the resampled second signal copy . Thus the first signal copy and the resampled second signal copy can have the same sampling frequency. The fusion component can fuse the first signal copy and the resampled second signal copy into a combined signal of the signal of interest.

Components with the same name and different reference numerals can function as the same components or different components. In one example the fusion component can be the same as the fusion component of . In one example the resample component can be different from the resample component of .

The request component can cause the request to be sent in a variety of different manners. In one example a broad request is sent out where a sensor that receives the broad request sends a copy in return. The broad request can be directed to a receiving sensor and not directed to a particular sensor. In one example a request is sent that is directed to at least one specific sensor. In one example an individual request is sent out to an individual sensor e.g. a first request is sent to the first sensor and a second request is sent to the second sensor .

In one embodiment the signal of interest is unknown to the system . In one example the modulation scheme of the signal of interest may not be known to the system . In this scenario a best matching demodulation scheme can be appointed for the signal of interest .

In one embodiment the first sensor of is a dumb sensor that is part of a first network while the second sensor of is a dumb sensor that is part of a second network. The first network and second network can be different networks or the first sensor of and the second sensor of can be on a single network. In one embodiment the first sensor of e.g. that is part of a first personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the first signal copy of does not make a local decision regarding synchronization of the first signal copy of while the second sensor of e.g. that is part of a second personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the second signal copy of does not make a local decision regarding synchronization of the second signal copy of . It is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that references to an item with a reference number in one figure e.g. can be applicable to the same item with the same reference number in another figure e.g. .

In one embodiment the signal of interest is unknown to the system e.g. a modulation scheme of the signal of interest is unknown and a frequency of the signal of interest is unknown. The first sensor is non cooperative with the second sensor and the second sensor is non cooperative with the first sensor. The first network and second network are different networks and the first sensor and the second sensors are dumb sensors. The first sensor does not make a local decision regarding synchronization of the first signal copy and the second sensor does not make a local decision regarding synchronization of the second signal copy.

In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the first signal copy. The second sensor is part of a second personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the second signal copy.

