---

title: System and method for enhanced communications via small data rate communication systems
abstract: A system and method for interacting with an interactive communication system include processing a profile associated with an interactive communication system; generating a user interface based on the processing of the profile to solicit a user response correlating to a response required by the interactive communication system; receiving the user response via the user interface; updating the user interface using the profile based on the user response; and sending a signal to the interactive communication system based on one or more user responses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798585&OS=08798585&RS=08798585
owner: Shorthand Mobile, Inc.
number: 08798585
owner_city: La Jolla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130111
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 122 619 filed May 16 2008 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 60 938 969 filed May 18 2007 entitled System and Method For Communicating With Text Messaging Systems and U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 60 938 965 filed May 18 2007 entitled System and Method for Communicating with Interactive Service Systems all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to communication with interactive service systems such as service systems that use short message service SMS interactive voice response IVR systems and websites or other data systems.

Many companies currently use interactive service systems such as text messaging systems and IVR systems for various tasks as a first line of customer support and service. However interacting with such systems can be cumbersome and time consuming.

New methods and systems are desired to drive awareness and increase discovery by users of such interactive systems available in communication systems. There is also a need to simplify the creation of text messages needed to access information and content and perform various transactions. In addition improved methods for displaying results and confirmations provided in response to request and transaction messages sent to text messaging systems are desired.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for a system and method for enhanced communications. One example described herein relates to communications using a short message service SMS available on most digital mobile phones facilitating short messages also known as text messages messages or texts from and to mobile phones other handheld devices and server systems. However each reference to SMS is also intended to apply to other communication protocols and systems such as data channels and voice communications interacting with interactive voice response systems.

In one aspect a method for interacting with an interactive communication system includes processing a profile associated with an interactive communication system generating a user interface based on the processing of the profile to solicit a user response correlating to a response required by the interactive communication system receiving the user response via the user interface updating the user interface using the profile based on the user response and sending a signal to the interactive communication system based on one or more user responses.

Additionally the can include determining from the profile whether the user response requires the signal to be sent to the interactive communication system.

In another aspect a system for interacting with an interactive communication system includes a profile processing application which processes a profile associated with an interactive communication system a user interface module configured to at least generate a user interface based on the processing of the profile to solicit a user response correlating to a response required by the interactive communication system receive the user response via the user interface process the user response and use an updated user interface to be generated and a sending module which sends a signal to the interactive communication system based on the user response.

In a further aspect the profile processing application is configured to determine from the profile whether the user response requires the signal to be sent to the interactive communication system. Additionally the sending module can send a signal to an intermediate server which in turn sends a signal to the interactive communication system.

In a further aspect a method for interacting with an interactive communication system includes processing a profile associated with the interactive communication system generating a user interface based on the processing of the profile to solicit a user response correlating to a response required by the interactive communication system receiving a user response via the user interface generating and transmitting a communication to the interactive communication system based on the user response receiving a communication from the interactive communication system and updating the user interface using the profile based on the communication from the interactive communication system.

In further aspects the method can includes determining from the profile whether the user response requires the signal to be sent to the interactive communication system and saving user entered information and modifying the profile using the saved information.

A further aspect includes a method of communicating with a client device having a profile processing application and a profile including receiving a text message from the client device accessing information associated with a user of the client device transmitting a responsive message to the client device and transmitting additional information to be displayed at the client device based on at least the information associated with the user.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for a system and method for enhanced communications. One example described herein relates to communications using a short message service SMS available on most digital mobile phones facilitating short messages also known as text messages messages or texts from and to mobile phones other handheld devices and server systems. However each reference to SMS is also intended to apply to other communication protocols and systems such as data channels and voice communications interacting with interactive voice response systems.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. Although various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

The following overview of the text messaging environment is intended to provide a general and high level understanding to the reader. This overview is in no way intended to define the entire scope of or limit the scope of the text messaging environment.

While the present disclosure refers to the Short Message Services SMS physical information channels available in substantially all cellular systems other physical information channels also available in cellular systems may be employed. For example packet data services available in many cellular systems are also enabled in a high percentage of the mobile terminals operating within these systems. Accordingly an increasing number of users are subscribing to the associated packet data services which can also be used in embodiments described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize the applicability of the embodiments described herein and will be capable of readily migrating the systems and methods described in this disclosure relative to an SMS information channel to other information channels including packet data channels and via instant messaging IM . Many improvements to the system and methods due to the higher data rates and potential for more frequent connections between the clients servers and systems will be readily apparent.

Referring now to a block diagram of a communication environment according to an embodiment of the invention is shown. The environment includes a text messaging device also referred to a client and one or more text messaging servers one or more text messaging systems a web service server and a text messaging peer . The text messaging device includes an application i.e. profile processing application and one or more profiles which is associated with the text messaging system . Though in the examples discussed herein the focus is on a single example profile it is anticipated that most devices will include more than one profile .

In an embodiment the application and profile are initially loaded on the text messaging website server . A user may download the application and any profiles of interest from the server wirelessly or via a personal computer PC 

The profile creation module allows a designer to enter and select profile description information. In one embodiment the designer can be the user of device . However the designer will also be other users with access to the creation module with such access being provided in a number of ways including via the internet. Included may be information describing menu structure branding information and images attributes keywords codes short codes sent message formats received message formats display information for received messages user input prompts and value range information. In an embodiment the profile creation module generates the profile in eXtensible Markup Language XML .

The device can exchange text messages directly with the text message system and or a text message peer . Alternatively the text messaging server can stand in between the text message system and the text message peer. In this embodiment the text message server receives text messages intended finally for text messaging systems or text messaging peers from users read and modify e.g. monitors adds to removes from changes compresses un compresses etc. the text messages and forward the resulting text messages on to the text messaging systems or text messaging peers. The text messaging server may also receive text messages intended finally for persons from text messaging systems or text messaging peers read and modify as per above such text messages and forward the resulting the messages on to such persons.

Additionally the text message server can receive text messages from the device which are intended or result in a response from a non text message system. For example the web service server can provide information or services via a web browser or other API . The text messaging server can receive a text message from the device reformat the message into a format compatible with the API of the web service server and transmit that query to the web service server for example via the internet. The server can then receive the response from the web service server reformat that response as a text message and transmit that text message back to the device . In this manner device can access services and information via server that are not otherwise available via text messaging.

Examples of a text messaging device include a cellular phone an Internet protocol IP phone a landline e.g. cordless phone a wireless fidelity WiFi phone a voice over IP VoIP phone or other phone and a wireless device or computer. The text messaging device includes an application and a profile . The application can be a software application targeted initially to reside on the text messaging device . The application and the profile can provide for example greatly improved user interfaces Uls for those who wish to interface with a text messaging system e.g. an SMS system like Google SMS or other systems like the Internet or a computer database etc. . In other embodiments the text messaging system can be an interactive voice response IVR system or other interactive communication system and therefore the text messaging system can be more generally referred to as an interactive response system that can use various communication protocols and channels.

In person to machine P2M situations the application together with the profile described below creates a user interface UI which can include a graphical user interface GUI for accessing a text messaging system e.g. an SMS based weather stock ring tone download or banking system . The entire set or a subset of options supported for the text messaging system are presented to the user in a simple and easy to navigate set of menus user input prompts and output screens providing requested user information confirmations and error messages all described in the profile associated with the text messaging system . The application in combination with one or more profiles simplifies and enhances the user experience and thereby saves time and minimizes user entry errors. The systems and methods described herein can leverage thousands of existing and future text messaging systems while taking full advantage of existing text messaging device features e.g. cellular phone features SMS send receive capabilities audio keypad display processor memory wireless connection etc. .

The application also provides a user interface UI allowing a user to efficiently communicate with another user e.g. a text messaging peer where the other user may or may not also have the application running on their text messaging device . In such person to person P2P or peer to peer communications one or more users can take advantage of several beneficial features provided by the application . When all parties sending and receiving text messages are utilizing the application all such users derive the greatest benefits in the use of the application. The users may communicate with each other using any of several P2P profiles each of which may offer numerous features common to all profiles and other features specific to certain profiles.

With the high level of user adoption and interest in SMS text services in the US and elsewhere in the world users may find many and varied ways to leverage the profiles. Individual users and user groups therefore may create and customize profiles for purposes of creating individualized and customized P2P experiences to suit their interests. Such behavior may accelerate user adoption of the text messaging environment.

Text messages may be sent conditionally according to received text messages based on either or both the phone number or short code of the original sender or on the message contents. A user can configure the application and a profile such that a desired text message or a text message containing certain information or data is sent in response to a particular message received from another person or text messaging system . For example the user may configure a message including the text Hello Anne I am in a meeting all day today but will call you tonight. to be sent in response to each message received from a user with phone number 858 123 4567.

Compression information source coding techniques known to those skilled in the art at the sending user s application and un compression at the receiving user s application can more efficiently utilize available messaging bandwidth. Such compression allows for the addition of advertisements and coupons at the text messaging server while still allowing the user s access to 160 characters of payload.

Menu trees relevant to user groups may be utilized in the generation of text messages to be sent to one or more group members. For example a menu tree can allow a member of a Fantasy Football league to select a set of teams from a predefined list of team names stored in the P2P profile . A menu tree can enable a member of a Chess Club to send the text corresponding to a chess move e.g. K2K5 to an opponent in the Chess Club. Members of social groups clubs affinity groups etc. can develop many and varied ways to leverage the application and profiles to improve communications between and among members of the group.

Creating and maintaining lists of group members and corresponding phone numbers is simplified. Members can use such a P2P profile to efficiently address text messages to one or more members of the group. Additional groups and sub groups can also be created.

Entry shortcuts described herein corresponding to members of a group including aliases etc. can be created. Similarly entry shortcuts for words and phrases of interest to members of a group e.g. a list of product codes for use by a group of field sales representatives can be created.

UI menu trees providing for efficient generation of text forms of interest to the group can be utilized.

In an embodiment a profile creation module described herein can be used to create a P2P profile with any of the features described above and others. The profile creation module may be made available on a website server or elsewhere. Alternatively a P2P profile may be created using information related to the application described herein without the use of a tool such as a profile creation module .

After the P2P profile is created the members of a user group may then use the application and the associated P2P profile together as a primary client. The P2P profile would be tailored to benefit the user group. To facilitate communication between all users of the user group including those who do and those who do not have the application and associated profile the application may appropriately and conditionally prepare the text messages to be sent and appropriately and conditionally process the text messages received. Additionally the user can use the P2P profile as their preferred messaging client whether they have created any groups. That allows for a generalized customized and improved messaging or communication interface.

To facilitate such conditional processing the application and associated P2P profile on a first user s text messaging device have information corresponding to an associated P2P profile if any on other user s text messaging devices . For example if a first user has an application and P2P profile capable of performing source code compression in the generation of messages to be sent and one of the intended receivers of the message does not have the required un compression capability then the application sending the message may decide not to perform any compression. Alternatively the application may decide to send a compressed version of the message to a text messaging server which then performs a compression appropriate for intended recipients having an un compression capability.

In some cases messages sent from one member to another member of a group using a P2P profile may be sent via the text messaging server so that further processing may be performed at the server . Some example processing steps are described below.

A text message is received from a sender at the server information e.g. advertisement information is added to the text message and the text message with the added information is sent to the intended receiver.

A compressed text message is received from a sender at the server the received compressed message is un compressed and the uncompressed message is sent to the intended receiver which does not have a capability to un compress a message. In such a case the message may be sent in multiple parts.

Additionally a message can be sent from the user to the server . The server then sends the message to multiple other people. For example the sender may provide along with the message the name of a predefined group to send the message on to. The server will in this case read the name of the group look up the addresses of each member of the group and send the message on to each member of the group. This saves time on the part of the sender and eliminates the need for the sender to send multiple messages. Instead only one message will be sent from the client to server reducing potential tariffs. Other examples related to compression for purposes including minimizing the number of text messages sent and received to reduce potential tariffs for sending and receiving will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The application may save certain user inputs as entry shortcuts and propagate appropriate values within the device to various profiles e.g. P2P profile and profile so that the user is not required to enter them again. Time is thus saved because the user need not otherwise recall the information e.g. zip code city name a bank account number or credit card number etc. from another location e.g. a credit card in the user s wallet etc. .

Complete entry sequences may be saved as sequence shortcuts. A user may later select a sequence shortcut from a first menu list. The application then automatically runs through the desired entry sequence for the user prompting the user when certain variable entry information is required. Sequence shortcuts may initially be placed in an initial menu of the profile or may be moved by the user to the initial menu of the application or to the screen desktop of the text messaging device .

The application can automatically re order each menu list by frequency of use so that the user sees the most frequently used menu items at the top of the list. This feature may be enabled or disabled by the user at any time. The user may also revert to the original ordering for any profile using the application. The application also allows the user to rename menus and profiles to hide them to delete them and to unhide them.

The application module resides on the text messaging device . The application is typically downloaded in the form of executable software to the text messaging device from the text messaging website server or another website server wirelessly or via a PC. The application interfaces with features and functions available on the text messaging device through a device application programmer interface API . The API may be a BREW binary runtime environment for wireless JAVA Linux Microsoft Mobile or other API and may use features and functions available on the text messaging device not available through such API s . The application reads and interprets one or more profiles selected by the user and provides a user interface UI to the user in the form of a set of menus user input prompts and displays of outputs of requested user information and confirmations in accordance with the profile . Typically the application will present the user with the list of profiles available on the text messaging device when the user initially launches the application . The user then typically selects one profile from such list at which time application reads and interprets such profile as described above.

The application does not generally contain information specific to any particular text messaging system but may contain in certain specific situations as required. The information specific to a particular text messaging system or other communication system or protocol is typically contained in a profile developed in accordance with message formats required by the text messaging system. The application in effect provides a second API i.e. the API on top of the device API described above where the API supports profiles themselves as applications. Thus functionally is partitioned into two distinct components. In the first the application is dependent on the specific device API e.g. BREW supported by the particular text messaging device . In the second the profile is substantially independent of the API supported by the particular text messaging device and is specific to and dependent on the API provided by the application and also on the associated text messaging system. This partitioning can afford several important advantages. For one profiles may be used on any text messaging device on which application resides. So one profile may be developed for a particular text messaging system and such profile will operate on many different text messaging devices which may use various device APIs e.g. BREW JAVA Microsoft Mobile or other API . Therefore the applications which are enabled using the profiles may be developed for broad deployment much more quickly and for much less cost than similar applications which would need to be designed and ported to operate on each individual device API. In addition new profiles or modified versions of existing profiles may be developed over time and such profiles will inherently operate within any text messaging device for which application is resident with no additional development or porting required.

This partitioning enables a user to download a single application adapted to the API supported by the user s device . The user can then download multiple profiles where the profiles are independent of the device API. That is the same profiles may be downloaded by other users onto devices having different device APIs. This capability allows for the development of profiles independent of current and future text messaging device APIs.

This approach is very scaleable from the perspective of the providers of a text messaging systems who desire text messaging device clients to support their particular text messaging systems. In an embodiment without the text messaging system as described herein providers would need to develop a specific client for each device API intended for support. In one embodiment profiles may contain image files e.g. .png files dependent on the text messaging device because of screen size and aspect ratio dependencies etc. An application may also write information into the profile in order to change or add to the information contained in the profile e.g. to rename a menu item to add a shortcut or to maintain statistics etc. .

The application can communicate with the Text Messaging server . In one embodiment portions of the text messages to and from the device and the server that are not used for a text message referred to as the control channel can be used to provide additional communication between the application and the server. Messages sent in the control channel can include for example the following User has deleted a profile user is requesting a new profile reporting user profile usage statistics such as which profiles have been used and how often server to client new dynamic advertisement client reports ad displays ad clicks and ad events server to client remote disable of application or sending of informational message to user confirmation that application has been disabled instructing application to enable disable hide or unhide a profile confirmation that a profile has been enabled disabled hidden or unhidden reporting certain user events which are identified in the profile as being required to be reported from the client to server reporting user initiation of URL or phone call during interactivity with a received SMS message sending an I am alive message from application from watch dog function described below and instructing the application to hide or disable a profile instructing the application to modify a profile. These and additional messages may be sent in the control channel to and from the device and the server as requirements and needs arise over time.

There can also be included one or more message queues for the control channel. For example control channel messages can be classified to be sent immediately including by a dedicated control channel text message if no control channel is otherwise available. Other control channel messages can be classified as high priority medium priority or low priority and sent out according to that priority ranking as control channel capacity is available. Typically when a text message is sent based on a user initiated action the availability and capacity of the control channel is evaluated and control channel messages which are in such queues described above are sent to the extent the control channel has available capacity to do so in accordance with their priority ranking. Thus the high medium and low priority queues will be emptied in respective order. The application may evaluate the elapsed time since being queued for messages assigned various priority rankings and if such messages have been queued for more than a defined time period of time associated with such priority ranking such messages may be sent out by a dedicated control channel text message. Various other algorithms and methods may be used to effectively transmit control channel messages of different priorities over time as will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

The application provides functionality for modifying profiles resident on a user s text messaging device . The instructions for such profile modification may be provided via the control channel. A menu item may be added to an exiting menu list in such a way. For example a menu list containing the items California New York and Idaho may be modified to also include the menu item Nevada according to such methods. The specific control information for the addition may include among other data information to identify the profile the menu list within the profile the menu item text and the data to be sent in the text message corresponding to the selection of the added menu item.

The application can maintain an application inbox of messages received in connection with the profiles resident on the device . This inbox can be separate from or a sub set of the text message inbox for the standard client of the device . For example the operating system of the device can be configured to place all incoming messages into the inbox based on a list of sender addresses or a part of the to address or based upon information in the message. Additionally messages in the inbox can be associated with their related profile for activation when an item in the inbox is accessed. For example this can allow for incoming alert messages associated with a profile to be processed according to information in the profile. The application inbox may also allow the user to sort such inbox message contents by the time and date of arrival of such messages. When reading a particular message associated with a particular profile within the application inbox the user may be given the option to open or execute the associated profile with a single menu option selection so as to facilitate ease use. Alternatively accessing the message can automatically cause execution of the profile. The application inbox may provide header information for each message when the user is in a message list view of the application inbox. Such header information may provide among other information the profile name query type e.g. Movies by zip and message arrival time and date so that the user may conveniently view the application inbox contents.

Additionally profiles can also be used to forward a received in one communication protocol in another protocol. All messages received in a protocol for which a profile is present can be trapped in the inbox. For example the user may have several profiles for sending or forwarding messages in various formats or protocols e.g. Twitter Facebook and AIM . The user may have received a message on AIM IM message . The user is looking at the message in the Inbox. The user wishes to send the message to another person but this person does not have an AIM account screen name. Instead the user has a Facebook account. So the user reads the message from AIM and does a forward from the Inbox. In the forward command the user id given the option to forward via several options SMS text Facebook AIM Twitter . Basically each profile corresponding to one of the options et which offer messaging will be have an associated option for the use for forward operations. The user may decide to forward the AIM message in the Inbox to the friend using Facebook messaging. When creating a new message in the Inbox the user is also given options as to how to send the message e.g. Via AIM Twitter Facebook SMS text etc. . The profiles themselves are not used directly in the forward and new message options above. Instead for each profile that the user has downloaded the messaging option for that profile in effectively plugged in to the Inbox to allow messaging from the Inbox. This makes for a very convenient centralized messaging place the Inbox from which the user may access any of the messaging options available to the user based on the profiles the user has loaded into the application .

The application and profiles can be made available to the user for specific time periods for example for providing subscription license arrangements and additional access control over the application and profiles for other purposes. This can include attaching to the application and or profiles data corresponding to the download date and data corresponding to a period during which the application or profile is to remain valid. The application is capable of monitoring such information and the current date to cause a particular profile to expire or to cause the application itself to expire. Further the application can disable a profile in response to a control channel or text message e.g. from the server and can disable itself.

Additionally once a profile is loaded the user may receive a notification via a text message or in the control channel e.g. from the server indicating that a new version of the profile is available. The user may then select a URL link in the text message which takes the user to a WAP site or website which prompts the user to download the profile. Alternately the application may receive the text message indicating that a new version of the profile is available and the application may automatically go to the URL by opening a web browser. The application may then initiate the download of the profile automatically. Note that all of the above also applies when the received text message notification is not for a new version of an existing profile but instead for an entirely new profile for the user. In such a case the user may have already agreed to receive such profile when available.

Advertisements may be placed by the application at appropriate screens within the menu tree or UI. Two types of advertisements are provided those chosen by the application static and those chosen in real time by the text messaging server dynamic . Dynamic ads can also be chosen and provided by the text messaging system in the same manner as the server . Based upon specific placement categories the static advertisements are chosen by the application from a small on line database of ads downloaded at the same time as the application or included in the application or in the profile.

Advertisements may be placed by the application at appropriate screens within the menu tree or UI. Two types of advertisements are provided those chosen by the application static and those chosen in real time by the text messaging server dynamic . Dynamic ads can also be chosen and provided by the text messaging system in the same manner. Based upon specific placement categories the static advertisements are chosen by the application from a on line database of ads downloaded at the same time as the application or included in the application and updated from time to time either in part or in entirety through various means including when the user downloads a new or updated profile downloaded automatically by the application or downloaded through the control channel when available. The application and or profiles may contain sets of images relating to advertisers e.g. advertiser s logos . The advertiser images stored on the device will typically be those associated with the advertisers whose ads are placed most frequently within the application and profiles. These images may be loaded with the initial application load or when profiles are loaded or may arrive in the control channel. When a dynamic or static ad is placed by the application the advertiser image if available may be placed adjacent to the ad text by the application. If not available then the ad text will be placed without an advertiser image. Each advertiser images may be stored along with a unique index number. The dynamic and static ads may also contain such advertiser image index number so that advertisements and advertiser images may be correctly associated and paired for display.

In contrast dynamic ads are selected in real time by the text messaging server when the client device sends a request to the text messaging server or when a alert or other asynchronous text message is sent from the server to the client or as a dedicated server to client control channel message. The selected dynamic ad can be sent to the device on the control channel. Dynamic ad selection can be very specifically targeted based upon the client request and or other criteria. The other criteria can include information from a user s profile e.g. sex residence address usage history time of day etc. For example an ad for a theatre can be provided when the user sends a movie times query an ad for a real estate agent can be provided when the user sends a query requesting information on a home at a particular address an ad for a sporting event can be provided when the user sends a related sports scores query. The advertisement databases that the text messaging server can choose from may or may not be contained within the text messaging server but may instead or in addition reside on one of more separate server. Such selected advertisement may then be included within the response to the query in the control channel and sent back to the user where such advertisement may then be placed within or adjacent to the response to the query received by such user. Each profile can contain information as to categories e.g. a profile for accessing movie listings may be designated as being in the Entertainment category of ads to be placed within such profile menu system or UI. Advertisements may also contain information as to categories for placement e.g. an advertisement may be designated for placement in the Airline category and the Entertainment category . Advertisements may also contain information as to specific profiles for placement e.g. an advertisement may be designated for placement in the Pizza Hut profile and the Google profile . Advertisements may also contain information as to specific categories or profiles for non placement e.g. an advertisement may be designated not to be placed in the Pappa John s profile and not to be placed in the Sports category . Various other algorithms and methods may be used to effectively select ads for placement as will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment dynamic ads are sent in the control channel and can contain the following information 

Static ads can be stored on the device e.g. in profiles or other files associated with the application as described above. Each stored ad can contain the following information 

All of the above information defined for dynamic ads plus the following which can be used by the application to determine ad placement 

maximum number of times to place the ad. Can also control the maximum number of times to allow the ad to be clicked and or actioned.

list of profile names in which the ad can be placed and or list of profile categories in which the ad can be placed.

Once a static or dynamic ad is displayed clicked or actioned within the application a control channel message may be sent from the client to the server to indicate this event. The advertiser may choose for each such ad click or action including any or all of the selected actions or customer actions to have a specific response message sent to the client . An actionable item is an item that a user can select for example by clicking. For example the response to the action Get Coupon may be to send a message with a coupon code and details for redemption. Also the response to the action Enter Coke Drawing may be to send the message You have been entered to Win a one year supply of Coke . Any number of other ad responses is possible and may be created by the advertiser. The ad response may also contain a link to a website for purposes of downloading a ring tone mobile phone application or other downloadable file. An ad response may also contain a coupon code or a UPC or other code which may be rendered into a graphical image representation by the application so as to allow the application to display such UPC or other code in the form of a coupon which is then human or machine readable and which may be scanned for redemption. Such coupon codes may in some cases be returned in a control channel portion of the ad response which is not intended to be viewed by the user but instead rendered as described above into a graphical coupon image for redemption.

The application includes a watch dog timer feature which periodically sends a message for example a text message or control channel message to inform the server that the application is still loaded and active on the device . There are several reasons that it is important to be able to detect the application is still resident on the device. If the user has deleted the application from the device the server does not want to continue to send information alerts to the user. In addition the server does not want to expose the control channel format to the user which may occur if the application is not resident on the phone and the phone receives text messages containing the control channel and when there is no application to intercept such messages. If the user has deleted the application from their mobile control channel messages sent to the device could be captured in the device s standard SMS client therefore exposing the control channel message to the user. Similarly if the user has switched to a phone that has an older version of the application installed the server does not want to send control channel messages that may not be supported by the older version. In order to detect the two situations described above the watch dog feature of the application sends at least one SMS message to the server in each of recurrence of a defined time period. As a result if no queries are sent to the server from the device within such defined time period the application will send a special I m alive message to the server. In addition the I m alive message will contain the version of the application in order to detect if the user has switched phones to a phone with a different version of the application or has installed another version of the application. If no communications are received from a device at the server in each recurrence of such defined time period it is assumed that the application is no longer installed or temporarily disabled by the user e.g. by the user turning the phone off and the server will immediately stop sending messages to such device. Should the server once again begin receiving communications from such device it is assumed that the application has been re enabled by the user and the server will immediately begin allowing the sending of messages to such device including sending some or all of the messages which were not sent during the period in which the device was considered to be disabled by the user or uninstalled.

The application may send the text messaging device user s current location in a message query in the control channel via for example latitude longitude ZIP code City Code Airport Code or other location identification means either automatically or under user control when such location information is available and may enhance the query or response information. In an embodiment the user s current location e.g. ZIP code may be presented to the user within certain displays sometimes as an entry shortcut for the user to select as one of several options when creating a query. The user may select such current location may select another location available as an entry shortcut or may enter yet another location in an entry box made available to the user.

The application can monitor and track types of events and activities. These events can be monitored on the client recorded and then sent back to the server for example via the control channel. Some are single events and some are an accumulation of events over a time period. Some may be sent immediately while others may be sent at a later time using the available control channel queues. These events and activities are as follows 

1 Profile usage. For example how many queries the user sends from each profile. This usage is accumulated over a collection period e.g. 1 day or 1 week etc. which is programmable per profile. When the time period expires the sum of queries sent from the particular profile is put along with other information date stamp profile name or ID etc. into a control channel message and put into a queue for sending to the server. The next collection period begins at the end of the prior collection period. Changes in this method are possible including monitoring the usage of specific queries or groups of queries within a profile. For example if a profile offers weather news and stock quotes the application can monitor the usage of each query type and send all 3 separate query sums to the server after each collection period expires. In another example the application can also monitor the number of query responses and or the number of unsolicited messages e.g. Weather alerts received during the collection period. Such profile usage accounting is needed when monetization is a function of the number of users or active users using for a particular profile. The above information is also valuable for analytics purposes.

2 Advertisement events. The application can monitor when ads static and dynamic are displayed to the user and when they are clicked. The application provides for a landing page which provides a list of one or more actions available to the user once the ad is clicked. Any such action taken is also monitored. Some ad actions listed are programmed into the application and selected for use using information provided along with the ad. For example the actions may include Call Advertiser Go to Advertiser website Have advertised call me Opt in to SMS Download Now Enter to Win Request Coupon etc. . Some ad actions may be provided along with the ad e.g. Call Crest . These are called Custom Actions . The application records ad display events ad click events and ad action events. When recording ad actions the specific action taken is also recorded e.g. Request Coupon . These events are all put along with other information date stamp time stamp profile name or ID ad ID ad action details etc. into a control channel message and put into a queue for sending to the server. The Call Advertiser action in addition to being recorded causes a call to be placed to a number which is provided along with the ad. The Go to Advertiser website action in addition to being recorded causes a URL address which is provided along with the ad to be accessed by invoking a browser. Ad display accounting is needed for advertising when monetization is a function of the number of impressions made. Ad click accounting is needed for advertising when monetization is a function of the number of ads which are clicked on. Ad action accounting is needed for advertising when monetization is a function of the number and type of actions taken. All such above information is also valuable for analytics purposes.

3 Call and URL events. The application monitors when phone numbers and URLs are clicked. Such phone numbers and URLs are made actionable clickable by the application when they appear in certain displays in particular in the Display Action as well as in the inbox among other places. The recording of such events may be controlled on a profile by profile basis with such events recorded in some profiles and not recorded in other profiles. These events are all put along with other information date stamp time stamp profile name or ID ad ID event details etc. into a control channel message and put into a queue for sending to the server. Call and URL event accounting is needed when monetization is a function of calls placed or URLs visited. The above information is also valuable for analytics purposes.

4 General events. The application provides the ability for a profile to indicate that the application is to monitor specific user actions which may not fall into any of the above categories. This is done by inserting a Control Channel Action element within the profile menu system. This element is not visible to the user but when the user takes certain actions the Control Channel Action will be executed and certain information defined by the profile will be sent along with certain other information e.g. date stamp time stamp and profile name or ID to the server using the control channel. The profile defined portion will typically be a string of information used to indicate the action or event. For example in the case of a profile which is used to place an order or perform a transaction the profile may have a Control Channel Action immediately following the order or transaction confirming step in the process. This confirming action may be the sending of a confirming text message to the server or to a third party server. To the user this confirming step may be performed by selecting the option Confirm Order or Confirm Transaction . In this way any number of actions or events may be recorded and passed to the server based on user activity concerning the profile of interest. This general accounting feature may be used when monetization is a function of the number and type of transactions or purchases made using a particular profile. This general accounting feature may be used for many other purposes. The above information is also valuable for analytics purposes.

Each profile contains detailed information to describe a particular text messaging system e.g. the Google SMS system . This includes detailed menu tree and menu item information details of user input requirements and information as to the format of text messages to be sent and the format of any text message received from the text messaging system. The profile also contains the short code s of the text messaging system.

A single profile may not necessarily be used to communicate with only a single text messaging system. Profiles may be created which interface to several text messaging systems and or to communicate with other types of systems using other communication channels and protocols. For example a profile could be created which would access weather information from one text messaging system and access stock quote information from another and video via a data service from another. The user may under some circumstances be made aware of the two separate text messaging systems or under other circumstances not be made aware that information is retrieved from two separate text messaging systems. In a second example a user can request a street address from one text messaging system and then request driving directions to or from the street address from a second text messaging system using the same profile . From the user s perspective both operations are therefore conducted within the same user interface. A user accessing several text messaging systems with several profiles thus benefits from the use of UIs that are substantially similar in look and feel. This similarity enhances the user s ability to access such systems effectively because it is required only to learn to use only one basic UI even though the user is accessing several perhaps dozens of text messaging systems and services.

Referring to the second example above the user experience can be further enhanced if the street address is automatically provided to the user within the UI for accessing the driving directions without the user having to copy and paste the information from a received text message into a second text message which would be sent to request the driving directions.

Furthermore when two such text messaging systems involved in the above second example use different formatting information for a street address for example the application with the profile is configured to reformat the street address between the steps of retrieving the street address from the received text message and providing it to for use in the second query. This is a component of a feature which is generally referred to herein as propagation. Additional components of the propagation features are described below.

The feature described in the example above in which information from a received text message is automatically available for use in composing another text message to be sent as part of another information request is not limited to situations in which the requests are performed using a single profile . Information and values entered by a user as well as information and values received by a user when accessing a profile associated with one or more text messaging systems may be made available within the same profile and may also be made available within other profiles which use the same type of data.

Information and values both entered by a user and received by the user may be defined to be of a specific type and be so described in the profile . The information and values of the type may then be made available to the user from the same or other profiles when the user is prompted to enter a value which is of the same such type. For example a user enters when prompted a value of type Credit Card Number in a particular profile e.g. for a banking service where the profile is configured such that this value is to be propagated to other profiles i.e. by setting the appropriate attribute . If the user loads a second profile e.g. a profile for SMS based ticket purchase at a later time and the second profile prompts the user to enter a credit card value then the credit card number entered by the user when accessing the first profile shows up for the user to select and enter. In the example above the Credit Card Number information entered by the user will be propagated as described to other profile s and will also be made available to the user as an entry shortcut within the entry screen in which the user was originally prompted for the value.

Information entered by a user according to a UI prompt when using a profile may be made available immediately to the user when the user is still accessing the same profile. For example with respect to a banking service profile if a user enters an account suffix number to perform a savings to checking account transfer the account suffix number may be made available when the user selects an option to retrieve account balance information within the profile. As described above the text messaging system allows a user to enter a value at one step within a particular profile and then to have the value available to the user at future times when the value is required within the same or different profiles. In this way a user entering values when using a first profile may not need to enter the values again even when they are required to perform many further transactions using several profiles. In order to distinguish those values which should be saved as entry shortcuts in the entry screen in which they are entered from those values which are considered variable and should not be saved as entry shortcuts the profile may contain information to distinguish each such value as fixed in which case and entry shortcut will be created and variable in which an entry shortcut will not be created . While an account number once entered will likely be needed again and would therefore be considered fixed a dollar amount for a savings to checking transfer may not be needed again and may therefore be considered variable. In order that information entered by the user and saved as an entry shortcut may be obscured for security purposes the profile may contain information as to how such entry should be obscured when later displayed as an entry shortcut. In one example this is accomplished by using the symbol to hide certain digits of a Credit Card Number so that the resulting entry shortcut would be displayed as e.g. 7632 .

The profiles provided to the user may be configured before download to include certain sequence shortcuts and entry shortcuts which may be deemed of interest to that specific user or to the majority of users or which may be requested by such user to be set up beforehand. For example in a banking service profile a sequence shortcut Checking Balance can be provided since it would seem that the checking balance information is a frequently selected information request for such a profile. Secondly in the banking service profile an entry shortcut My Account 123456789 where 123456789 represents the user s actual account number can be provided since it saves the user the time and potential for errors in entering the user s specific account number s later. Such information may be added to an existing generic version of such profile once such profile is requested by a user and after such customization information is determined based on user account registration and other information.

Entry shortcut and sequence shortcut information may be defined and entered into the profile during the creation of the profile using the profile creation module or otherwise during the creation of the profile . Such information may be deemed of interest to the user therefore included in the profile at creation. The entry shortcut and sequence shortcut information may also be defined and entered into the profile based on instructions provided by the user after profile creation and before the user downloads the profile to the user s text messaging device e.g. when the user selects the profile for download using the text messaging website server . The purpose of such user customization is desired in part in order to simplify the customization process by taking advantage of a website or other user interface which may be more convenient place for the entering of such information relative to doing so using the text messaging device .

The profile can contain information as to where within the UI to alert the user when responses or confirmations etc. to queries or transactions etc. arrive for the user. The profile can contain information as to where within the UI dynamic and static advertisements or coupons are to be placed. The profile may also include information as to the categories of queries and transactions etc. to be accessed through the profile . The information may be used to decide which of available advertisements and coupons to place in the UI. For example when accessing movie information a Theater advertisement of coupon may be placed. Note that advertisements may be placed within UI elements of application which are not explicitly part of a particular profile UI. For example advertisements may be placed in the display in which the inbox message list view is provided or in the display in which individual inbox messages are viewed. In addition advertisements may be placed in the display in which the profile list view is provided. There are numerous other displays within the application which are not explicitly part of a particular profile UI in which advertisements may be placed.

Various file formats and data structures can be used to describe the UI and associated profile which provides a user with access to the services provided by a particular text messaging system to generate the message formats required by the system and support and additional features described herein. In one embodiment the profiles contain a set of attributes to describe the UI as a menu tree and to describe the send and receive message formats etc. The attributes may be generally grouped as profile level attributes menu level attributes menu item attributes entry action attributes display action attributes etc. Within each such group the attributes related to an associated part of the menu tree are listed. There are numerous methods for describing the Uls and associated profiles which will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

While many text messaging systems and services are available to users users are not generally able to readily discover such systems and services because they are typically only described on websites provided by the text messaging system and service providers themselves. A text messaging server can simplify the discovery process for the user by aggregating many text messaging systems and services which can then be made available for discovery by the user on a single website. As noted above the website can be the text messaging server or it can be based on one or more other servers.

The user s discovery process is further enhanced by collecting information from the user regarding the user s demographic information interests mobile usage patterns etc. for example via the control channel as was described above. Basic demographic information e.g. sex interests etc. can be collected when the user registers with the server . The usage patterns and which profiles are used and how often each profile is used are collected as described below. From such information the most appropriate text messaging systems and services may be selected from the set of all such systems and services and suggested in various ways to the user. In one example all available profiles may be offered to the user organized by profile category in one view and organized by profile name in another view. Profiles may also be offered and listed in accordance with business rules with companies offering text messaging systems where such rules consider promotion and premium placement competitive considerations and the like.

A feature provided on the server is a version of the profile creation module described in greater detail below . This version may be made accessible to text messaging system and service providers so that such providers may readily create profiles associated with their text messaging systems. This feature facilitates a quick and efficient aggregation of a provider s content and allows for rapid generation of the associated profiles. This model is highly scaleable from the perspective of text messaging services and content aggregation.

A related feature provided on the server is another version of the profile creation module which may be made accessible to users of the application . User may readily create profiles for use in peer to peer applications or for use with text messaging systems for which the user desires further customization or for which no profile is yet available. The user may begin with an existing profile or create a profile from scratch. This feature further facilitates rapid user adoption. This model is highly scaleable in terms of end user customization and has clear potential for adoption by affinity groups social groups clubs organizations and other groups and for social networking purposes. As such this feature offers great potential for the viral adoption of the application.

The profile creation module may be run on a PC a text messaging server a text messaging system and or a web server etc. The profile creation module allows a profile designer developer text messaging service or content provider or end user to create a profile associated with a particular text messaging system or for peer to peer communication. Creation of a profile is performed through a UI provided by the profile creation module the UI including a set of forms prompts and entry fields used to receive the information to describe a particular text messaging system . In an embodiment the information includes send and receive message format information text messaging system short code s user entry prompts information and constraints for error checking and information pertaining to the desired UI generally in the form of a menu tree.

The profile information typically in the form of attributes can be stored in XML or another file format. There can be one or more profiles for each supported text messaging system or set of systems. In an embodiment profiles can be created through examination of the text message format and other information provided for users of the text messaging system .

Depending on business or technical considerations the text messaging server can include an intermediary server which may be used to access certain text messaging systems so that messages sent to and from particular text messaging systems may be monitored and or modified. Monitoring and modification can be performed for example for purposes of user and or customer billing and audit records creation call volume and statistics collection profile version checking and control user registration verification error detection and correction advertisement and coupon downloading information downloading and profile list and catalog updates.

Compression of information sent from the text messaging server to a user may be employed so that additional data bandwidth within such messages is made available for the insertion of advertisements and coupons and other information.

In an embodiment the application may append a version number of a profile to a text message it sends. The text messaging server can compare this to the version number of the receiving text messaging system to determine if the profile is out of date with respect to the receiving text messaging system . If the profile is out of date the user may be prompted to update the profile prior to sending a message to the receiving text messaging system . For example the user may receive an indication that the user s profile is out of date with a request that the user download an updated profile. The user may be given the option to immediately request the updated profile or to do so at a later time. The profile version checking may also be incorporated into the text messaging system itself without the need for version checking to be performed by an intermediary text messaging server. The server may also perform various authorization tasks. For example a user may be authorized to access only certain text messaging systems and not others. In such a case should a user attempt to access a text messaging system for which the user has not been authorized or is not longer authorized then the server may send a response to such user indicating the lack of authorization and may also provide information as to how to gain authorized access to such text messaging system. In a similar way the text messaging server may restrict access on a user by user basis. For example a request from a phone number which is not registered with the system may be declined access to all text messaging systems which are accessed through text messaging server . In addition an application disable command may be sent to phone numbers for which are not registered with the system .

Other features may be implemented with the use of the text messaging server . The text messaging server may be used to limit access to certain text messaging systems by particular users under predetermined conditions e.g. such text messaging systems may be available to users only on a subscription basis or under some other access control . The text messaging server may also be used to store statistics related to the text messaging transactions requested and performed. In an embodiment the text messaging server may be used to store sensitive and or confidential user information e.g. a user s credit card number and expiration date account numbers and passwords so that the user is not required to send this information in the form of a text message. The text messaging server can use the information with other information sent by the user via text messages to complete purchases or other transactions or information requests.

In an embodiment the application when instructed by a user via a profile to send requests to a receiving text messaging system instead sends the request with any necessary routing information such as a short code indicating the receiving text messaging system and other information to the text messaging server . The text messaging server receives the request logs information required for billing and other purposes described above performs any required modifications to the text message and sends the modified version of the text message to the receiving text messaging system .

In another embodiment the application may compose a text message for the text messaging server pre pend to the message a short code indicating the text messaging system and send the complete message to the text messaging server . The text messaging server upon receiving the text message removes the pre pended short code and sends the resulting message and original sender s phone number i.e. the phone number for text messaging device to the text messaging system indicated by the short code. The resulting message can be sent via another text message via the internet or via other means of information or data exchange. The text messaging system can then process the request and send any required confirmation content or other information to the user s text messaging device via a return text message s .

The text messaging system may be configured to send such a return text message to the text messaging server so that the text messaging server may monitor and or modify the return text message to provide information from the text messaging server to the application on the user s text messaging device e.g. advertising or coupon information or other information etc. .

In an embodiment the short code associated with the text messaging system is a dedicated short code used only for messages sent from the application . Use of a dedicated short code allows the text messaging system to treat messages received from the application differently than those received directly from standard text messaging device clients. This simplifies billing and accounting operations when such billing and accounting differs for messages sent from standard text messaging device clients vs. messages sent from application . In addition the text messaging system may send text responses to the text messaging server rather than sending them directly to the test messaging device when the response is associated with a request received from the application using the dedicated short code.

The text messaging system may provide on a system by system basis for various message transfers. The text messaging system may provide that text messages be sent directly from a user s application to the text messaging system and any return message be sent directly to the user s application . The text messaging system may also provide that text messages originating from a user s application are sent to a text messaging server modified at the text messaging server and sent to the text messaging system and that any return message is sent directly back to the user s application . The text messaging system may further provide that text messages originating from a user s application are sent to a text messaging server modified and then sent to a text messaging system and that any return message is sent to the text messaging system modified and sent to the user s application . Variations of the above methods will be apparent.

In another embodiment instead of disposing the text messaging server between the text messaging system and the user s application additional messages can be sent by the application and the text messaging server . For example the application sends the text messages as described above directly to the text messaging system and additional text message s directly to the text messaging server . The additional message s may contain information for message tracking billing and accounting a short code number indicating the text messaging system information about the type of request or transaction profile version number and other information which may have been stored by the application for future forwarding. Any or all of the control channel information described above may be sent to and from the application directly to and from text messaging server . Such information may or may not be related to the particular text messaging system .

The application may in some cases utilize one or more of the text messaging server options described above or may not use a server in other cases. The decision to send messages directly to the text messaging systems or to send the text messages through a text messaging server may be made on a profile by profile basis using information contained in the profile providing such indication of method or the decision may be made based on information contained in the application. This flexibility is convenient because some text messaging systems may and some may not require that accounting and billing information be collected and for other reasons. In a typical situation a text messaging device will contain some profiles which communicate directly with text messaging systems and will also contain some profiles which communicate indirectly with text messaging systems through text messaging server . Also in such typical case control channel messages and information are provided to and from the application to and from text messaging server even though some such control information will relate to the profiles which communicate directly some such control information will relate to profiles which communicate indirectly and some such control information will be independent of all such profiles.

The text messaging server may send text messages to the application with further information e.g. advertising and coupon information and other information .

In an embodiment the text messaging server provides text based services itself. That is the text messaging server acts as a text messaging system as described herein. The use of the text messaging server for text based services effectively co locates the functionality of a text messaging system and the text messaging server . This configuration allows the text messaging server or a separate server to provide all or some of the same text based services that are otherwise provided through third party text messaging systems. For example the text messaging server may provide weather information stock quotes sports information chat services taxi services query services information services movie listings search services and other information and services. The configuration also allows third party parties to provide content and information to users. The content and information may be loaded onto the text messaging server or linked to the text messaging server using tools provided by a website server and or the text messaging server .

In an embodiment the text messaging system may provide text messaging system information to users while acknowledging the brand providing the information or alternatively without acknowledging the brand providing such information.

Types of content and information which may be provided by the text messaging system include but are not limited to 

Embodiments of the present invention provide for methods of loading profiles into a text messaging device and for locations where a user may access profiles for loading. Examples include but are not limited to the following 

It will be appreciated that numerous methods for a user to download the application and associated profiles exist. Such availability further promotes the user s ability to identify and access information content and transactions available through text messaging systems. Any combination of the above example methods for loading the profiles onto the user s text messaging device may be deployed. While some download methods described above refer only to downloading profiles the methods are applicable to downloading the application as well.

It will be appreciated that there are many possible download mechanisms for the application . The application may be large enough that a data connection or a cable connection sideload may be required.

Downloading may typically be performed after the text messaging device operator and make model are determined. The specific text messaging device API is then determined and the text messaging device is made accessible via text messaging. With the device API determined the appropriate files for application may be selected and the download may take place. The text messaging server or other website server from which the application will be download may in some cases interrogate or otherwise determine the text messaging device make model OS wireless service operator and other characteristics which may then be used to determine the device API and determine the appropriate files for application may then be selected.

Example download options for the application include the following in addition to those described above 

To perform the download the user receives a text message or other message containing a URL for a WAP web site where the application resides. The user enters the URL in a browser or selects the URL link causing a browser to open and the URL to be accessed. The user may be prompted by the WAP web site to initiate the download. Once initiated the application is downloaded to the text messaging device . The user may then select the application install file s causing the application to be installed on the text messaging device after which the application may be run by the user.

Various generic profiles may be created and supported. A generic profile is a profile which is not specific to a particular text messaging system but which enables text based transactions with several text messaging systems. A generic profile can be useful when for example several companies brands use identical codes to perform text based transactions.

In an example two movie theaters one a THEATRE X with 12 screens and one THEATRE Y with 24 screens use the codes in the body of an SMS message for a ticket reservation transaction including a theater location code a theater number a show time a number of adult tickets a number of child tickets a number of senior tickets and today or a date using MMDD. An example SMS message for a reservation transaction for a theater with theater location code 17 for 2 adults 4 children and 1 senior ticket for theater screen number 5 playing at 5 20 today might be 17 5 520 2 4 1 today. Assuming a menu which reads Use your Movie Theater Profile to purchase tickets via SMS using the short code 54321 THEATRE X or use the menu system below to purchase tickets via SMS using your SMS client a description of the codes and message formats for ticket reservation may then be provided.

The user runs the application selects the movie theater profile then navigates the menu tree which prompts the user for the theater location the number of each type of ticket the theater screen number the show time the day and the short code e.g. 54321 for THEATRE X . Generic profiles and associated codes and message templates can be provided to customers who may then opt to use the generic profile or alternatively create a custom profile.

The use of a generic profile is advantageous in that many users may already have access to the generic profile at the time a particular movie theater owner decides to provide movie ticket reservations via text messaging. If the owner creates a custom profile then it takes valuable time for users to download the custom profile causing the number of users capable of purchasing tickets using the system to be undesirably small.

Generic profiles may be created for several types of common text based transactions. As described above a company may opt to use a generic profile or use a custom profile including images for purposes of branding both using the generic templates codes.

A semi custom profile is a generic profile with a template and codes further customized through additional information. Using the movie theater example above when the user runs the application and selects the movie theater profile the user may be first prompted for the theater short code e.g. 54321 for THEATRE X . The application then sends a text message containing the theater location code to the short code 54321 to retrieve the customization information e.g. the number of theater screens theater name e.g. THEATRE X and a promotional Banner e.g. Welcome to THEATRE X .

Alternatively the text message containing the theater location code and the THEATRE X short code can be sent to a different short code to retrieve the information. Alternatively the THEATRE X short code can be recognized by the application and the customization information can be retrieved from memory rather than received over the air using a text message. Once received or retrieved the customization information is used to further customize the movie theater profile. The user can then navigate through a set of prompts to make the movie ticket reservation.

In an embodiment a profile provided to a user may contain information specific to the user. In an example of a bank profile the user s account number and account suffixes for savings and checking accounts for instance can be included in the profile as entry shortcuts so that the user sees the shortcuts on first using the profile. This user specific profile generation is advantageous to the user in that the frequency of errors in user data entry is reduced adding to the convenience of the application .

In another embodiment when a user sends a text message using a standard client available on the user s text messaging device the application may monitor the user s entry sequence and prompt the user the save certain of the entries as sequence shortcuts. In such cases the application can auto generate a profile containing the sequence shortcut and prompt the user to name the profile and the sequence shortcut so that the next time the application is run the user has access to the sequence shortcut and profile. The user may opt to save or not save the sequence shortcut.

A message compose mode may be provided within the application allowing a user to compose the text messages for text messaging systems for which no profile is available or for which the user has not loaded an associated profile. The compose mode can provide the user with at least some of the conveniences available when a profile is available for accessing the text messaging system. The compose mode provides the user with access to a standard text editor and some or all of the user s account information and other information and the user s entry shortcuts entered in other profiles. Access to the information is by means of a hierarchical or other menu tree or other menu structure. The user can use the menu means during composition when inserting such user information into a text message.

In an embodiment new information entered while composing a text message can be captured by the application and saved in the form of entry shortcuts for future use. The user need not have a profile associated with the text messaging system for which the text message is composed. The user may also choose whether or not any such new information is saved as an entry shortcut. As described above user and other information entered when using a profile may be available to the user while composing a message using the above described compose mode of the application . In compose mode the user can use the application for any text messaging purpose including interfacing with a text messaging system or for sending and receiving text messages to and from individuals. Accordingly the user need not use the existing client.

Once the application and one or more profiles are loaded onto a user s text messaging device and the application is set up according to the user s preferences the user may make use of the application and features. Following are example embodiments including steps the user may take to access the system and a description of the operation of a typical text messaging system .

In an embodiment the user runs the application and selects a profile from a list of available profiles loaded on the user s text messaging device . The profile will typically be selected from a profile list view. Also from this profile list view the user may have various options with which to manipulate a selected profile e.g. delete profile create launch icon for profile revert to un customized profile etc. . Once a profile is selected a first menu or display is provided to the user. The user may then select from available menu items using appropriate keys on a user keypad or enter data requested on the display. For example up and down keys of a 5 way navigation function on the text messaging device may be used for selecting from the list of menu items and for scrolling list should all of the menu items not be visible on the screen.

The application may provide a seek feature such that the first menu item including profile name if at the profile list view starting with a given letter combination may be accessed quickly when the user enters the characters on a QWERTY keypad. Or the user may select such letters on a standard phone pad key by selecting the number corresponding to a set of letters e.g. 6 for M N O or 2 for A B C etc. in which case the application will find the first potential matching menu item. A 5 way navigation function typically includes a middle button for entering the selected menu item.

When menu items are selected the application records the user s selections for future use and displays the next menu list or display for the user. Some menus may include prompts for user input such as user account number user PIN user credit card number and expiration date zip code dollar amounts for account transfers dates times of day social security numbers phone numbers other numbers and values etc. When the application prompts the user for such entry information the application provides an appropriate and convenient user entry mechanism so that the user may enter the required data.

The user input may be formatted as it is being entered by the user so that the user may see clearly see that the input being provided is correct. Such formatting may include dollar signs decimal points indications of month day and year entries etc. The application can perform a check for errors in the user input incorrect characters too many digits too few digits incorrect values etc. to the extent such limitations are known at the time the profile is created and are based on requirements of the text messaging system . The application can detect the entry of such incorrect data and prompt the user to correct the entry before moving to the next menu list or entry display or reject the entry so that it is not accepted by the application. Appropriate error and warning pop ups and audible alerts may be used to assist in the process. When appropriate the application may provide pop up calendars pop up alpha numeric entry pads and other pop up applications or other user interface mechanisms to facilitate quick error free and convenient data entry. For entry items which may be considered private by the user the application may hide the entry e.g. substitute a symbol for the digits of a PIN and all but the last 4 digits of credit card numbers etc. .

The user may continue through several menu lists and or entry menus until the application has collected the information required to create the text message corresponding to the user s information request purchase or transaction. In an embodiment an optional prompt is presented to ensure that the user wishes to send the request. The application prepares the text message and sends it to the text messaging system . Alternatively the text message is sent to a text messaging server .

After the text message is sent and before a corresponding message response is received the application may be configured to display a message indicating a status such as Retrieving the Weather or Retrieving Data. This display may also include a navigation option such as Return to Main Menu enabling the user to return to a prior menu to perform additional queries or transactions for example. Once a message response is received the application may flag an internal alert. When this alert is flagged the application may display an alert menu item or pop up such as Response Received set according to the Profile level attributes which can be displayed at appropriate menu levels also under control of menu level attributes. In an embodiment the alert menu pop up is provided along the option to dismiss the alert and the option to go to the associated received message e.g. Read . On selecting the Read option the user is presented with the received message and in a typical case is transferred to the application inbox view.

The application is typically configured to display the received message response to a query immediately upon arrival. If the data does not fit on the screen the user can use scroll up down keys to view text otherwise out of view similarly to the way in which long menu lists may be viewed. In an embodiment text messages received from a short code corresponding to a profile and a text messaging system are intercepted by the application and displayed for the user. Text messages from a website server or the text messaging server may also be intercepted by the application . If the received text messages have information e.g. certain words text or characters are know to be contained in the received message corresponding to a message sent useful in determining which received message corresponds to a query sent then the information may also be used for association and error detection. When the text messaging server is used the application may include a sequence number in a text message query sent to the text messaging server . The sequence number may then be sent back to the application within the message response. This sequencing thus allows received text messages to be uniquely associated with text messages sent as queries. When a one short code is used to send queries to test messaging server in order to access several text messaging systems corresponding to a respective several profiles each profile may use a unique keyword e.g. the profile name in the outgoing query text message to identify which of the text messaging systems the query is intended for. Then correspondingly when a response is delivered in association with such query by text messaging system to text messaging server text messaging server may include the same keyword in such response before passing such response back to application . In this way the queries sent from application for a variety of profiles may share the same short code and the responses to such queries may be uniquely associated with the correct profile. Further required association for query response message pairs sent from the same profile may utilize the additional methods described above such as matching to expected text or words in the received message .

The application and profiles may also provide additional formatting information and graphical images used to enhance the display of information in the received message e.g. the use of sun and cloud icons as part of weather information display or Zodiac signs for daily horoscopes .

While a user is creating a request or transaction using the application and a profile the application may save information entered by the user referred to as entry shortcuts. When the user completes the creation of the request or transaction and a corresponding query is sent the application saves the sequence of steps and information entered by the user. The saved sequence is referred to as a sequence shortcut. Entry shortcuts and sequence shortcuts provide further convenience to the user and serve to speed transactions performed by the user and reduce the frequency of user entry errors.

In an embodiment an entry shortcut appears in the entry menu corresponding to the particular profile in which such entry shortcut was created the next time the user enters such menu. In an example the user enters an account number 123456789 at an entry menu and the value is saved as an entry shortcut. The next time the user reaches such entry menu the entry shortcut shows up as a menu item e.g. 123456789 . The user is given an option to select this entry shortcut select another entry shortcut if any or enter another account number in an entry box.

In another embodiment the application may propagate or copy entry shortcuts to other entry menu levels within the profile . For example if the example account number entry shortcut above were created at a certain entry menu level in a particular profile then according to attributes in the profile the entry shortcut could be copied to any or all other entry menu levels within the profile at which the user may be prompted for the account number. In another embodiment the entry shortcut may be propagated into the entry menu levels of one or more other profiles on the user s text messaging device according to additional parameters in the profile and or parameters in the other profiles.

In an embodiment entry shortcut information may be saved for user entry items comprising fixed information such as account numbers etc. For variable information such as a dollar amount or a date the information may not be saved as entry shortcuts under control of the profile attributes.

In another embodiment the application allows the user to designate certain variable user entry items as fixed for purpose of saving them as entry shortcuts and for purposes of creating certain sequence shortcuts. This designation allows for example an entry shortcut to be generated which provides for the transfer of a fixed amount e.g. 1 000.00 from one account to another and the amount to be used in a sequence shortcut without prompting the user for input when the sequence shortcut is executed. The user is in this example effectively overriding the designation of a variable type value to make such value a fixed type value.

The application may also allow the user to designate certain fixed user entry items as variable at the time of entry and during creation of a sequence shortcut. The entry item designated as such will not be saved as an entry shortcut. This allows for example generation of a sequence shortcut which provides for local traffic information by prompting the user for the user s current ZIP code e.g. 92805 instead of using the ZIP code entered when the sequence shortcut was created. The two designations described above allow entry values initially designated as fixed to be variable for use in sequence shortcuts and likewise for entry values initially designated as variable to be treated as fixed for saving as entry shortcuts and for use in sequence shortcuts.

After it is created a sequence shortcut will appear in the first menu list or display presented to the user the next time the associated profile is selected. If selected the sequence shortcut runs automatically from start to finish. If there are no user prompts for variable entry information then the sequence shortcut can execute the steps for sending a text message corresponding to the request or transaction performed when the sequence shortcut was originally created. Alternatively the user may be prompted before such a text message is sent. If there are user prompts for variable entry information then the sequence shortcut can execute all of the other steps stopping only to prompt the user for such variable entry information before continuing on to execute the sequence shortcut through to the step of sending a text message corresponding to the request or transaction performed when the sequence shortcut was originally created. Alternatively the user may be prompted before such a text message is sent.

In an embodiment the entry shortcut and sequence shortcut information is included in the profile file or it may be included in one or more separate files. This separate file option among other benefits allows the sequence and or entry shortcut information to remain on text messaging device and to be retained for the user unmodified when and if the user downloads a new version of such associated profile which would necessarily require the removal of the original profile.

In an embodiment an auto entry shortcut is provided. The auto entry shortcut allows a user to indicate that a particular menu item in a given menu list is always to be selected at that menu list level. For example if the user is asked to select between English and Spanish at a certain menu list level the user may choose English and indicate that this selection is to be made each time this menu list is encountered. An auto entry shortcut may similarly be configured for a user account number which is unlikely to change but which must be entered each time the user reaches a certain menu level. The application would then automatically make the desired selection each time the menu list is presented. The user can indicate that an auto entry shortcut is to be used by selecting the desired item at a certain menu list level selecting a predetermined option menu or key and then selecting an appropriate option.

In an embodiment the application allows a user to schedule a sequence shortcut to be run once at a later time or on a recurring basis in the future. Using such a scheduled transaction the user may for example schedule a transfer of funds from the user s checking account to a savings account at a particular time and date. The application determines at the appropriate time that the scheduled transaction is to be triggered and executes the selected sequence shortcut. The application may be configured to provide a confirmation to the user that the scheduled transaction was performed. The user may be prompted for the transfer amount or to accept the transaction before its execution is completed. The scheduled transaction may also be configured to alert the user just prior to execution of the scheduled transaction. For example the scheduled sequence shortcut may only be executed after the user is first interrupted e.g. by an audible alert from the text messaging device and the user approves of the sequence shortcut to be run.

Scheduled transactions may be set to run with a specified recurrence e.g. each Monday at 8 00 a.m. each evening at 6 p.m. each weekday morning at 5 30 a.m. etc. . Such scheduled transactions make repeated accesses to information more convenient for the user. A user may wish to receive certain stock quotes each weekday morning at 7 00 a.m. or receive traffic information for the user s route to work each weekday morning at 7 30 a.m. The capability to schedule transactions with a test messaging system advantageously simplifies the configuration of recurring requests for information. While the example provided above involves text messaging systems scheduled transactions of the type described may be implemented using other communication and or data systems.

In an embodiment each time the user utilizes a profile the application places the menu items in each menu list at each level in the menu tree in order of frequency of use such that the most frequently selected menu items subsequently appear at the top of the menu list. After an entry shortcut or sequence shortcut is created it is placed at the top of the appropriate menu list as if it were the most frequently used menu item and may or may not thereafter be ordered according to the future frequency of use. Initially the ordering follows an order provided in the original profile . It will be appreciated that other ordering methods are possible and may be employed. The user will have the ability to disable further menu reordering and to revert to the original profile ordering using application settings.

The application is advantageously suited to support multiple languages because the user interface is in substantially in a written textual form. In this way for example languages not effectively supported by a test messaging system e.g. the message formats are provided only in English may be supported by the application and associated profile. When a text messaging server is employed the server may be configured to convert received responses to the language desired and indicated by the user. The user s language indication may be known by the server from the user s registration information or it may be provided by the user in the generation of each text message query sent by the application and read by the server . It will be appreciated that an SMS system is merely one example of a communication channel and that the above described language support can be implemented using other data and communication channels. When the application and profile are used to communicate directly with the text message system without the use of text messaging server it is still possible to support languages other than the language that the text messaging system is designed to support. In order to do so the menu items prompts header text etc. all under control of the profile will need only be entered in the desired language. For menu item lists the application and profiles provide for a replacement value for each menu item to be sent in the query instead of the menu item itself. For example a list of menu items California Nevada Texas etc. may have respective replacement values CA NX TX etc. . The advantage of the replacement values is that the UI may provide the user with a user friendly and understandable representation of menu items for selection while the text messaging system may require or accept a different set of values. In this way the user experience is optimized and made consistent among and between profiles while satisfying the requirements of the text messaging system. It may be easily seen that using the replacement values selected menu items in one language provided for the benefit of the user may result in queries sent which contain values in a seconds language i.e. the language of the text messaging system . It is also worth noting that the present invention will allow for the creation of several profiles each representing a different user language each capable of interacting with the text messaging system which is itself supporting a single base language. The user when selecting profiles for download would be allowed to select profiles based on language among other criteria discussed previously. In is also worth nothing that a single profile may support multiple languages. In one example the first menu of such a multi language profile would contain a list of the supported languages for the user to choose from. Once selected the menu tree extending from such initial menu in the menu tree would thereafter contain menu items headers and prompts in the selected language.

Because the application may be configured to provide users with access to the text messaging systems of corporations and other such entities there is a significant opportunity to leverage the features of the text messaging device for enhanced access to such text messaging systems. For example corporations and entities maintaining these text messaging systems may present promotional advertising and branding information to users by way of the application . Accordingly the application can be configured to provide features addressing the promotional advertising and branding interests of these corporations and entities. For example when a profile is utilized the application may display a background image at each screen developed and or approved by the corporation or entity e.g. a corporate logo .

In an embodiment a corporate logo or other image may be placed at appropriate locations within a menu system such as in the top or primary header at each screen supported by a profile . Text bars and scrolling banners may also be displayed for promotional or advertising purposes at appropriate locations within the menu system. Additionally backgrounds for the menu system and certain tailored audible indications such as an indication of menu item selection entry may be designed according to the branding interests of the corporation. For example a cha ching sound linked to menu item selections could be supported by a profile for a bank.

In another example a company logo may be used in the profile listings within the application . A company logo may also be used as a launch icon for shortcuts and profiles placed in the program launch screen on the text messaging device . Without an application or some other dedicated application there are no conventional means by which an owner of a text messaging system can provide such branding images in connection with a user s messages intended to retrieve information and process transactions using the text messaging system . In an embodiment the text messaging system is an SMS system. In another embodiment the text messaging system is implemented using one or more other communication and or data channels.

While the application may access many existing and future text messaging systems with no modification to the text messaging systems certain advantages and additional features may be realized when changes to many text messaging systems are made. The following examples are described with respect to modifications made to an SMS text messaging system where the application sends messages to the SMS system directly 

In an embodiment the application and associated profiles are used to control a television or multimedia system. An infrared port available on many text messaging devices is used to transmit appropriate commands to the multimedia system. Alternatively a Bluetooth port or other wireless port available on many text messaging devices is used to transmit appropriate commands to the multimedia system either directly or via a remote unit configured to convert Bluetooth commands to appropriate infrared commands. In such an application a set of menus can be provided which allow the user to select any of multiple components of the multimedia system and to control the units individually. The sequence shortcut feature described above allows the user to execute complex control sequences to set up the multimedia system for various operational modes e.g. a satellite TV mode a cable TV mode a VCR mode a DVD mode etc. . More specific mode control may be provided as well. For example a sequence shortcut can be configured and appropriately named for setting up the multimedia system and tuning a receiver component to a specific channel.

In another embodiment downloadable profiles provide flexibility to support a multitude of multimedia systems components and modes including user customization options. In addition to multimedia system control the application and profile can monitor and track a channel selected by the user thus enabling further system capabilities. For example using a UI based on a profile a user may request information regarding a particular TV commercial being shown on the selected channel. When the user requests such additional information the application may send an SMS message including the selected channel with a timestamp to an SMS server i.e. text messaging server . The server can then identify the TV commercial indicated by the user. The commercial sponsor is notified with appropriate information necessary for it to provide to the user the requested additional information.

In another embodiment users may purchase products and services though similar means. The additional information requested by the user from the commercial sponsor may include for instance a purchase request. Advantageously such interactive TV capabilities are achieved with little or no interaction with cable and satellite television operators. The application and a profile may also be used for other forms of interactive TV. For example SMS messages may be sent to control avatars within such TV programs to vote on endings and other outcomes and actions select plot choices and generally influence the course of the TV program.

A profile is processed by the application on a text messaging device to provide the user with an enhanced ability to interact with a text messaging system or a text messaging peer or a web service through API via a text messaging server . The profile generally defines user interactions and device actions. An application processing a profile on a text messaging device generates an interface according to the profile . In one embodiment profiles are implemented using XML eXtensible Markup Language .

Profiles can include attributes of various types. Because the profiles are made of predefined attributes types the application can process any profile which is created using the defined attributes. The attributes describe the UI for example as a menu tree and describe the send and receive message formats of the specific text messaging system which is associated with the profile. In one embodiment the attributes can be generally grouped into the following categories profile level menu level menu item entry action display action send SMS action call action and URL action attributes. In one embodiment the send SMS action includes sending a message or data via a different communication channel such as a digital packet data channel. The following is an example list of attributes intended for storage in an XML file for profiles with a brief explanation of the characteristics of each attribute. The attributes are grouped into the categories listed above.

Typically a user selects a profile to be executed via the UI generated by the application. Additionally the profile can be selected from a profile list view display that causes the application to begin processing the selected profile. When the profile is executed by the application a menu Profile Home is generated and displayed according to menu definitions e.g. attributes described above in the profile. In the example depicted in the application generates a number of menu items associated with Google services including Stocks Weather GOOG411 Google Mobile Site and Help which are defined in the profile.

When the user selects the Stocks menu item from menu the application generates another menu item list menu based on the attributes found in the profile. The menu for Stocks includes a header Select Option and menu items By Symbol and By Name. The application responds to a By Symbol selection by the user with an entry action which allows the user to make an entry provide a value . The entry action includes a header which in this example has the instruction Enter Symbol. The entry action also includes an entry shortcut for a stock quote displayed as MOT which the user can select as the entry. In an embodiment this entry shortcut is memorized from a previous transaction where the user specified MOT for a stock quote request. Alternatively the entry shortcut can be a default attribute in the profile. The entry action also includes a text field at the bottom containing the stock symbol TXN entered by the user. In response to the user s entry the application performs a Send SMS Action which instructs the text messaging device to send the text message quote TXN to the short code 46645 associated with Google via the network and servers represented as . Alternatively if the user selects the entry shortcut MOT in the entry action instead of entering a stock symbol the application responds by generating a Send SMS Action including a request for a quote for MOT stock.

The application next generates a display action . The display includes the text Retrieving TXN Price e.g. according to the OutputText attribute for the display action . This allows the user to know that the request is being processed.

When a response to the sent message is received the application generates a display action for an SMS message which includes the requested stock quote information. As shown the information may include interactive text such as a phone number 800 123 4567 an interactive option enabled using the MatchText attribute for more information Reply M for More an interactive option enabled using the KeywordDefinition attribute for information about air conditioning Hot Reply AC . Additionally the application may place an advertisement within the display action in this case for a well known soft drink. The format for the information displayed in the display action including the interactive text options is specified by the attributes in the profile. The advertisement text and actionable options are provided as a dynamic ad via the control channel or as a static ad from a static ad file resident with the application.

If the user selects the interactive text for the phone number 800 123 4567 the application responds with a call action for that number and uses the number to make the phone call. The application can also use the systems and methods described in U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 938 965 filed May 18 2007 and titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING WITH INTERACTIVE SERVICE SYSTEMS which is hereby incorporated by reference to process the phone call and subsequent interaction more efficiently. Similarly if the user selects the interactive text Reply M for more information the application responds with a send SMS action and sends another SMS message requesting more information. Likewise if the user selects the interactive text Reply AC for information about air conditioning the application responds with another send SMS action and sends an SMS message requesting information about air conditioning. If the user selects the advertisement shown at the bottom of the display action another menu functioning as an advertisement landing page may be displayed with an instructive header Select Option and options for the user to request a coupon Request Coupon and an option for the user to opt into SMS marketing from the advertiser Opt in to SMS .

Referring again to the Profile Home menu if the user selects Weather the application responds by generating a menu . The menu includes the header reading Select Option and menu items By ZIP and By City. If the user selects By ZIP the application generates an entry action for By ZIP. As shown the entry action includes the header reading Enter ZIP and an entry shortcut 92037. The entry shortcut may for example be memorized from a previous request or it may be a default attribute in the profile. If the user selects the entry shortcut 92307 in the entry action the application responds by generating a send SMS action including a request w 92307 for weather information at that ZIP code with the short code 46645 associated with Google. The application then sends the message to the short code. The entry action also includes a text field at the bottom for the ZIP code entered by the user. If instead of selecting the entry shortcut 92307 the user enters the ZIP code 92085 in the field the application responds by generating a send SMS action with a request for weather information at the 92805 ZIP code.

Referring again to the Profile Home menu if the user selects GOOG411 the application responds by generating a call action . The call action completes a phone call to number 800 GOOG411 . Similarly if the user selects Google Mobile Site from the menu the application responds by generating a goto URL action . The goto URL action opens a browser and connect to the URL http m.Google.com . If the user selects Help from the menu the application generates in response the display action which displays the header reading Google Help and the additional in Display Action .

The formatting module utilizes formatting attributes in the profile to ensure that data and information are appropriately formatted in text messages and on displays.

The sending module prepares a message for sending and facilitates sending the message over a communication channel used by the text messaging device . In an embodiment the message is a text message and it is communicated over an SMS channel. Other communication channels may be used including packet data channels and other types of text messaging channels. In some cases information may be sent over a voice channel such as a circuit voice channel in a cellular system . In the case of a voice channel DTMF tones will typically be used for communication between the application and server. The sending module is operable to send messages to recipients specified by information entered by the user or specified by an entry shortcut in conjunction with the shortcut module described below .

The UI module implements the UI components including menus and display actions according to definitions in the profile . The UI module interfaces directly with the API of the operating system of the device .

The shortcut module carries out the functions to create shortcuts as was described above. The shortcut module also implements propagation.

The reporting module can implement the reporting and tracking functions described above including the watch dog function operation of the control channel including the queues and the maintenance of the inbox.

The ad module facilitates the display of ads dynamic and static as described above. As mentioned prior the profile attributes indicate which of the screens of the profile are allowed to display an advertisement. Furthermore if the profile indicates that a static ad is to be displayed the ad module selects an appropriate ad based on the profile category e.g. banking from the static advertisement file located on the application. If the profile indicates that a dynamic ad is to be displayed the ad module displays the received ad from the received text message. In both cases static and dynamic the ad module manages the displaying of the ad landing page as well as any actioning of the ads. In addition the ad module manages the collection and sending of the ad statistics.

The system profile creation module on the text messaging server allows a profile designer developer text messaging service or content provider or end user to create a profile associated with a particular text messaging system . Creation of a profile is performed through a UI provided by the system profile creation module where the UI may include a set of forms prompts and entry fields used to receive the information to describe a particular text messaging system . In an embodiment the information includes send and receive message format information one or more text messaging system short codes user entry prompts information and constraints for error checking and information pertaining to the desired UI generally in the form of a menu tree.

Similar to the system profile creation module the peer profile creation module on the text messaging server allows a profile designer developer text messaging service or content provider or end user to create a profile associated with a particular text messaging peer .

The profile creation UI module facilitates profile creation through a UI provided by the system profile creation module and or by the peer profile creation module where the UI may provide a graphical representation of the profile menu tree to facilitate development and maintenance of the profiles. The profile creation UI module may also provide a set of forms prompts and entry fields used to receive the information to define a profile to represent a particular text messaging peer . In an embodiment the information received includes send and receive message format information one or more text messaging system short codes user entry prompts information and constraints for error checking and information pertaining to the desired UI generally in the form of a menu tree.

The text message monitoring module can monitoring received communications to determine which require further processing by other modules. The text message modification module can implement the functions relating to one to many sending compression decompression described above. The security module can implement the security functions such as related to user profiles. The ad module can implement the ad related functions described above. The download module implements the described download functions. Other functions described above can be implemented by the processing module .

Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular system and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular system but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module or block without departing from the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP a text messaging system specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as text messaging specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

