---

title: Method to repair deformations in elastomeric hoses
abstract: A system to repair a hose made from deformable material includes an elongated container for holding a liquid heated sufficiently for softening the hose. A heater can be positioned in the container. A plurality of restraining members can be positioned to retain the hose immersed in the liquid within the container. A gas supply is used to pressurize the hose prior to immersion, and a support is provided for holding the hose before and after immersion. A method includes filling an elongated container with a heated liquid and pressurizing the hose with a gas. The pressurized hose is immersed in the liquid and maintained immersed by retaining members to soften the hose. The hose is removed from the liquid, depressurized and allowed to cool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09616624&OS=09616624&RS=09616624
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09616624
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130719
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to elastomeric hose assemblies and more specifically to a system and method for removing kinks from hoses and hose assemblies.

Elastomeric hoses made from deformable materials such as plastic rubber and the like are used in many applications including industrial military and commercial applications. They can be subjected to pressurized conditions and handle many types of liquids and gases. These hoses are desirable because of their strength and flexibility. Both raw elastomeric hose and completed elastomeric hose assemblies are often damaged due to prolonged periods on a storage reel or the like while not in use. The hose and hose assembly damage generally consists of randomly spaced dimples or kinks formed in the hose. These deformations are formed as the hose conforms to the shape of the storage reel during extended storage. This can cause internal obstructions and impede the ability of the hose to transport liquid and gas as intended. Repairing and or replacing these hoses can prove to be costly time consuming and labor intensive.

One previously known method to remove these deformations involves wrapping insulation around the damaged hose and running hot water through the hose. A second method involves wrapping an electrical heater tape around the hose to increase the temperature to the softening point. The primary disadvantage with these methods is the labor associated with wrapping and unwrapping thousands of feet of hose.

Another known method involves the use of a calibrated hot air gun to warm up and soften small areas of the hose. However the temperature is difficult to control and often passes the softening point causing dramatic weakening of the hose wall such that the hose blisters non uniformly at test pressure. This method is cost prohibitive because of the limited coverage area of the air gun in treating the hose.

The following patents discuss different background art related to the subject matter discussed above 

U.S. Pat. No. 3 175 246 issued Mar. 30 1965 to Adolph Loges describes an apparatus for heat treating long lengths of hose. This apparatus creates hoses with a reinforced structure by subjecting the hose to a thermal treatment in an apparatus comprising several sections of heating tubes joined together which tightly enclose the hose. Air or liquid is pumped through the hose expanding the hose diameter to that of the external pipe.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 561 750 issued Feb. 9 1971 to Woodrum discloses a hose straightening fixture for holding curved rubber hose in a substantially straight condition comprising two arcuate members which are movable toward and away from one another with one of the members having surface interrupting knobs which press against the hose outside curvature to reduce the distance to the same as the inside curvature.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 306 857 issued Dec. 22 1981 to Hofstetter discloses an apparatus for heating a continuing series of articles such as canned or bottled potable goods to substantially room temperature in order to prevent condensation from forming on the containers. The apparatus comprises an elongated housing having an interior housing chamber and open on each longitudinal end. An endless conveyor transports the articles from one open end of the housing to the other end of the housing along a substantially horizontal plane. An elongated trough is disposed under the conveyor and is partially filled with heating water so that the articles are partially immersed in the water as they are transported through the housing. A recirculation system is also provided for continuously reheating the heating water.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 506 526 issued Mar. 26 1985 to Kutz et al. discloses an apparatus for treating webs of material with several buoyant rolls which engage the web of material consist of a closed buoyant body and are arranged in a trough which contains liquid is open at the top and is at atmospheric pressure parallel and adjacent to each other horizontally restrained but freely floating in the vertical direction without touching each other. The rolls may be arranged horizontally side by side without forming roll gaps or vertically on top of each other forming roll gaps with two guide rolls provided above each buoyant roll.

The above background art shows that a continuing need has long existed for a cost effective system and method to repair elastomeric hoses. Accordingly those of skill in the art will appreciate the present invention which addresses the above discussed problems and other issues.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved system and method for repairing elastomeric hoses.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a cost effective system and method for removing deformations from elastomeric hoses that does not require complex equipment or intensive labor.

Another object of the invention is to provide a system and method for repairing elastomeric hoses that can be readily applied to hoses of various lengths and circumferences.

In accordance with the disclosure the present invention provides a system to repair a hose made from deformable material such as elastomeric material. This system includes an elongated container such as trough for holding a liquid heated sufficiently for softening the elastomeric material. A heater is operable for heating the liquid to a predetermined temperature or temperature range. A plurality of spaced apart restraining members are used to immerse the hose in the heated liquid. The plurality of restraining members each have an engagement surface that conforms to the hose for retaining the hose without damaging it. The restraining members are configured to immerse at least a portion of the hose within the elongated container when the hose is pressurized. A gas supply or compressor is used to pressurize the hose. A support is provided such as carts or the like for holding the hose before and after immersion of the hose in the elongated container.

In one embodiment the system may further include a cover for the container. The cover acts to maintain condensation and heat in the container. The elongated container or cover can have notches or gaps formed therein that provide an entrance to and an exit from the container for the hose. In one embodiment the cover is operable to support restraining members to immerse the hose in the liquid.

In another embodiment at least one of a hinge or a clamp is disposed between the cover and the container whereby the cover is closed with respect to the container by the hinge or the clamp.

In one embodiment the plurality of restraining members have a density sufficiently higher than that of the liquid contained in the elongated container to provide a downward weight force that offsets the buoyant force of the pressurized hose in the heated fluid.

In one embodiment the engagement surface comprises at least one semi circular groove portion having an arc of slightly less than 180 degrees.

The present invention also provides for a method for repairing a hose made from elastomeric material which includes steps such as providing an elongated container filled with a heated immersion liquid. Other steps may include unraveling a hose from a stored position filling the hose with compressed gas and immersing the hose in the heated liquid. This can be performed on portions of the hose.

Other steps can include immersing at least a first portion of the hose into the elongated container using a plurality of restraining members. The hose can be removed from the container after a specified time duration sufficient for softening deformations. The hose can be allowed to cool in a relatively straight position before allowing the compressed gas to escape from the hose.

The method may further comprise steps such as subjecting the hose to a pressure test for 5 10 minutes to examine for the hose abnormalities. One abnormality exists if a diameter of the hose exceeds a predetermined threshold. This abnormality can be overcome by allowing the hose to rest for 12 hours and retesting the hose to insure that it is acceptable. If the hose fails the pressure test again then the hose is rejected.

The method may further include the step of providing a cover and covering the container wherein the cover acts to maintain condensation in the container. The cover can be operably attached by a hinge or a clamp between the cover and the container.

The method can further include steps such as placing at least one rolling structure parallel to the container transferring the hose on to the rolling structure before immersing the hose in the container.

The method can also include the step of providing a heater in the container for maintaining the temperature of the fluid for immersion.

Detailed descriptions of the preferred embodiment are provided herein. It is to be understood however that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system structure or manner.

Trough is an elongated container having sufficient length to treat at least one segment of hose at a time. Transition members can be provided at ends of trough to prevent damage to hose where hose enters and exits trough . Trough is filled with a heated liquid . The current embodiment of trough is fifty feet in length although trough could be longer or shorter. In this embodiment trough can be used to immerse thirty to fifty foot sections of hose at a time until the entire length of hose is treated. Retaining members can be provided in trough to immerse and retain hose in an immersed state.

In utilizing the embodiment steps include filling trough with a liquid such as water or oil. Liquid preferably water is preheated to the higher range of treatment temperatures to allow for some cooling caused to the insertion of the hose into the liquid. For example as experimentally determined and based on a specific polyurethane hose material the liquid may be preheated to a temperature between 145 150 F. It has been found that this temperature range is suitable for softening deformable material in hose which allows kinks and the like to be removed from the hose. This temperature is partially dependent on the Vicat softening point of the material but because the hose can include other materials this temperature range must be modified experimentally to optimize results. Depending on the hose material the liquid temperature should not drop below 142 F. during the hose treatment process. If liquid is added to trough it is preferably added in small increments to reduce the amount of time required to reach and sustain 142 F. and to avoid significant temperature changes. Of course the temperature range and preferred sustained temperature are based on the specific hose material and construction.

Fresh water comprises one possible preferred liquid in trough to avoid any chemical incompatibility issues. In some instances it may be desirable to use a different fluid other than water or an additive to the water in trough to avoid excessive evaporation of water. Automotive antifreeze anti boil or its equivalent could be included with or used for liquid for this purpose during the heat treatment cycle. Cover can also be utilized for reduce evaporation this purpose and as an additional benefit may be used to aid in immersing inflated hose within liquid as discussed hereinafter.

If hose is a raw elastomeric hose then hose can be fitted with closure at one end and air fitting at a second end prior to treatment. Talcum powder can be used to lubricate and insert air fitting which can then be secured with two hose clamps not shown or other suitable means. Talcum powder can also be used to lubricate and insert closure in the other end of hose . Closure can also be secured with two hose clamps not shown or other suitable means.

After preparing hose with necessary fittings such as air fitting and closure and positioned on roller track hose should be filled with compressed gas by connecting a compressor to air fitting . Compressor can provide an increased gas pressure within hose sufficient to make hose semi rigid while hose is immersed in trough . As an alternative compressor can be another means for providing pressurized gas such as a compressed gas tank. Gas can be air or some other gas that is also substantially inert with respect to hose material. Movable carts can be moved to provide that hose is straight for this purpose if desired. The inflation pressure is based on the composition and thickness of hose . For some underwater towed array hoses used in naval applications 15 psi plus or minus 0.5 psi has been found to be sufficient. However varying pressures for different hose applications are possible using the present method.

Next an inspection of the diameter of hose should be conducted. After filling hose with air the hose diameter should be measured at several different hose positions against a specified tolerance. Preferably these hose portions should not be those parts of hose having an apparent deformation such as kinking or dimpling. Diameter exceeding the tolerance indicates a defect which could include a thinned hose wall. Exceeding the tolerance indicates that the hose should not be subjected to heat treatment.

Hose can be treated in segments having the same length as trough . A smaller segment of hose than trough can be treated as long as an unsealed end of hose is preferably maintained above the water level of trough .

For insertion in trough hose can be looped in the shape of a U along roller track and roller carts . A first section of hose will be immersed in trough beginning at transition member . Transition member can include a rubber strip or other cushioning placed where hose enters trough to prevent cutting or otherwise damaging hose during the treatment. Hose should be positioned so the end will be sticking above trough with the hose resting against transition member . If hose is not terminated by closure approximately 12 to 15 inches of hose should be exposed to air to ensure that hose does not get wet internally.

After hose is in trough retaining members are positioned on top of hose . In a first embodiment shown in retaining member is joined to the top of trough a trough cover or the like to aid in immersing hose . In a second embodiment shown in a retaining member is weighted to hold hose under liquid . Other types of retaining members can be used in order to practice this invention. Depending on the type of hose retaining members can be spaced out such as by placement two feet from both ends of trough and every three feet along the length of trough to adequately counteract the buoyancy of hose . The types of retaining members discussed hereinafter can be mixed if desired. Hose should be inspected and retaining members repositioned if any section of hose is floating above water in trough . Accordingly at a minimum the number spacing and retaining members is configured to immerse all sections of hose that are to be heat treated. If desired the positions for the retaining members can be marked to facilitate repeatable installation.

When removing covers to reposition or remove hose the condensation is preferably allowed to drip back into trough to reduce loss of liquid . A hinge and a clamp can be installed between trough and cover as depicted in . In this embodiment six to eight inches of space can be left between covers and transition members to prevent impressions or damage to hose .

Retaining member can be constructed to mount to or be held against an underside of cover in order to apply a force to hold hose in the immersed position against the buoyant gas filled hose . Accordingly cover can be used to urge members into the liquid with sufficient force to resist the buoyancy of the inflated hose. Retaining members can also clamp to the top edge of trough for this purpose.

In retaining members have a rounded cut out hose engagement surface that conforms or roughly conforms to a portion of the outer surface of hose . Soft material such as a cloth resilient material or the like could be used on engagement surface if desired. Preferably surface can be a circular arc of slightly less than 180 degrees. Having less than 180 degrees of arc allows hose to be captured under retaining members without an interference fit which would increase the work required to remove members from hose . Engagement surface preferably has a diameter approximately equal to or slightly larger than the diameter of hose for supporting or conforming to the round shape of hose . Additional shapes for engagement surface can be provided within the scope of the invention but a conforming engagement surface is presently preferred to limit or prevent damage to hose . Preferably retaining members capture hose in a central portion of trough where the temperature is relatively constant.

Referring now to a second embodiment of retaining member is designed to immerse gas filled hose independent of cover or clamps. In this embodiment retaining member is sufficiently dense to allow retaining member to counteract the buoyancy of the gas filled hose keeping hose immersed in trough during operation. Accordingly in this embodiment retaining member can be shaped to rest on the bottom or lower portion of trough . Member can be composed of many materials provided that member is heavier and or denser than liquid used in trough and can apply a downward force greater than the buoyant force from gas filled hose . Retaining member has a slot which is an elongated channel extending downward in member . An engagement surface is provided at the uppermost portion slot . In one embodiment slot has a width sufficiently larger than the inflated diameter of hose to provide relatively easy placement of hose within slot while still limiting excessive movement. If desired slot can have sloped sides or the like to guide hose upwardly against engagement surface when inflated.

In this configuration hose remains in a central portion of trough because slot provides the room for hose to ascend into engagement surface while still allowing member to apply enough force to keep hose immersed in trough . Slot terminates with upper engagement surface which is preferably rounded to conformingly engage with hose .

In one embodiment depending on the hose each section of hose is immersed in trough for at least thirty minutes allowing time for the deformable materials of hose to heat up soften and ultimately decrease the size of any kinks or dimples present in hose . After heat treatment the immersed portion is removed from trough and placed on carts and allowed to relax during cool down to room temperature while still pressurized with compressed gas. The portion of hose already treated should be marked preferably with masking tape or another tape not susceptible to water and then led onto roller carts to lay straight and flat during cool down. The next segment of hose can then be fed into trough to be treated as described hereinabove until the entire length of hose has been treated.

After the final section of hose cools for a predetermined period thirty minutes in one embodiment pressure in hose should be reduced to ambient 0 psig . After additional cooling two hours in this embodiment hose is subjected to another pressure test at 30 psig. Extreme care should be used when filling hose and the process immediately stopped if hose appears abnormally large. The entire length of hose should then be re examined for abnormalities including excessive diameter bulges and ballooning. Note that an hour glass shape near a termination in hose is normal. Hose should remain at this pressure for five to ten minutes and observations recorded in a data sheet

After testing at thirty psig pressure in hose should be reduced to fifteen psig and the diameter of hose measured preferably using a tape every eighteen feet along the length of hose as well as one foot from every coupling if applicable. If the hose diameter is within the predetermined threshold then hose passes the pressure test and is fit for operation. If the hose diameter exceeds the maximum threshold then hose should be depressurized and allowed to rest for approximately twelve hours. After this period hose is then retested and if the hose fails again then hose is rejected.

Trough can also include a liquid heating and circulation system having a pump and a heater . Liquid circulation system will heat and circulate the heating liquid through trough . This will insure that the liquid in the trough has a uniform temperature. A roller track can be positioned to receive hose as it exits from trough . Roller track should be long enough to allow hose to cool before hose is stored on final storage reel .

As discussed before the embodiment of allows continuous operation. Hose is plugged and pressurized. After an initial section is processed through to final storage reel hose can be gradually unwound from initial storage reel over initial transition member and into trough . Unwinding of initial storage reel can be at a travel rate that allows each hose segment to heat sufficiently within trough . Hose enters fluid in trough and is held beneath the surface of fluid by retaining members . Hose exits trough at final transition member . After leaving trough hose travels across roller track . Roller track must be long enough to allow hose to cool sufficiently at the travel rate. After hose has cooled it can be stored on final storage reel . Hose can be inspected before it is stowed on reel . Once all segments of hose have been processed hose pressure can be equalized to ambient pressure if desired.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

