---

title: Automated highlighting of identified text
abstract: Various embodiments enable a computing device to perform tasks such as highlighting words in an augmented reality view that are important to a user. For example, word lists can be generated and the user, by pointing a camera of a computing device at a volume of text, can cause words from the word list within the volume of text to be highlighted in a live field of view of the camera displayed thereon. Accordingly, users can quickly identify textual information that is meaningful to them in an Augmented Reality view to aid the user in sifting through real-world text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582913&OS=09582913&RS=09582913
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 09582913
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
As people are increasingly utilizing a variety of computing devices including portable devices such as tablet computers and smart phones it can be advantageous to adapt the ways in which people interact with these devices. Users are accustomed to manually typing words into a search field to search for words in a webpage or document in order to highlight the same. Such a task is not available for printed text sources thereby requiring users to read through or scan all text in the document in order to find or identify desired words within a document for example.

Augmented reality AR and visual search applications that display a live view of a physical real world environment augmented by computer generated sensory input have become more popular with adoption of smartphones and other portable computing devices. Through computer vision algorithms some of these applications are able to provide users with information related to an environment in both a search and gaming context thus enabling users to interact with aspects of the environment that were previously unavailable. As technology evolves and as the features and services offered on portable computing devices evolve and expand the ways in which word searching of printed text sources is changing.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the foregoing or other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches to providing users with information via a computing device. In particular various embodiments enable a computing device to perform tasks such as highlighting words in an augmented reality view that have been identified as being important or otherwise of certain meaning to a user. For example one or more word lists can be generated e.g. by a user a group of users or a service provider based on subject matter and the user by pointing a camera of a computing device at a volume of text can cause words from the word list within the volume of text to be highlighted in a live field of view of the camera displayed thereon. Accordingly users can quickly identify information such as may be represented by words in a word list in text in the real world that is meaningful to them in an Augmented Reality AR view to aid the user in sifting through real world text. Such an approach can be useful for large bodies of text for example as a computer often is much quicker at sifting through a large volume of text relative to a human.

In at least one embodiment a computing device capturing image information of a volume of text with a camera displays at least a portion of the same that corresponds to a live camera field of view or a real time video captured by the camera. In this example the volume of text is recognized using an optical character recognition OCR engine and words provided by a user such as words in a defined list are compared to the recognized text. Upon identifying a word provided by the user in the recognized text a graphical overlay can be displayed in the live camera field of view above or adjacent the identified word which includes a visual attribute causing the identified word to stand out relative to the remainder the volume of text thereby enabling the user to quickly identify information important to them.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In this and various examples user can manual create and edit multiple lists of words that user would like to have standout from or be highlighted within a body of text. shows computing device displaying word list for food items that cause user allegories. Accordingly in this example user is allergic to wheat items that contain gluten and peanuts and has added these items to word list . After adding these items user can then scan the ingredients listed on cereal box to detect if any of the listed food items or other food items containing one of these listed items is present within the text printed thereon. As shown in user is pointing computing device at cereal box and a live camera field of view of cereal box is shown displayed on the display screen of computing device .

Each of these examples shows a snapshot of a real time image of cereal box such as a frame in a video or from a live camera field of view of computing device . Accordingly as user moves computing device i.e. changes the camera field of view the displayed location of the words on the display screen of computing device will change and traced word graphical identifier and bounding box can move in corresponding movement with a respective word in real time. Further traced word graphical identifier and bounding box can be displayed in different colors different traced fonts different outlines or can utilize other visual designs for different purposes. Other mechanisms can also be used to alert users of an identified word such as using an audible sound or tactile vibration of computing device and the like.

As shown in user can scan menu with computing device in order to quickly identify food items user both prefers and wishes to avoid. In this example user is pointing computing device at menu and a live camera field of view of menu is shown displayed on the display screen of computing device . Accordingly illustrate example highlighting techniques layers or markers for words and or larger blocks of text such as sentences or paragraphs displayed on computing device in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Further bounding box surrounds a dish containing chicken and artichokes. Since artichokes is an item on user s dislike list bounding box is a dashed line bounding box. Similarly bounding box is a dashed line bounding box for containing peas and eggplant. Bounding boxes and only include items on user s like list and thus have a solid bounding box around the same indicating that user may be interested in those items. Accordingly user by creating dislike list and like list can quickly sift through and weed out menu items that they would either not like be allergic to and the like and also identify dishes that may be of particular interest given a concentration of items on like list . Further the lines of bounding boxes for respective lists may be different i.e. dashed or solid or the bounding box lines can also both be solid but different colors. For example dishes user will not like for containing an item on dislike list could be colored red and dishes that user will like could be colored green.

Further instead of markers or symbols each family could be represented as a different color. For example red could represent Moms preferences green could represent a first child s preferences blue could represent a second child s preferences and yellow could represent Dads preferences. The words or sentences could be colored using a bounding box around a word highlighting over a word s word tracing and the like. In both of these examples user would be able to quickly identify menu items that their family would be most likely to prefer. For example if Dad was picking up take out on his way home from work he could scan menu with computing device to quickly rule out unacceptable dishes and quickly hone in on dishes each family member would likely prefer without having consult them.

Further the computing device or a service provider in communication therewith can maintain different lists of words in addition to the set of words or list provided by the user for different subject matter. In one example the lists can be pre defined such as lists of nuts for allergies lists of brand names for shopping or lists of non vegetarian ingredients. Further these lists can be crowd sourced where users together can create and edit public lists such as eco friendly brands healthy ingredients or popular science fiction book titles. Lists could be generated for a smaller audience such as restaurant names in a particular city or geographic region. Further the user can also specify in what way to highlight each list for example choosing different colors for multiple different lists. In at least one example the user can have multiple lists which can each be highlighted differently. For example a user can have a list of positive words which they choose to highlight in green and another list of negative words they choose to highlight in a different color such as red.

Accordingly the computing device or system in communication therewith can determine a category of the recognized text and automatically compare a particular word list for the determined category. For example based on the recognized text the computing device can determine that the text is associated with a menu and apply a user s food preferences or allegory information. In another example a user could have a list associated with their favorite sports teams and players. Accordingly upon scanning an article using the teachings herein the category of the article can be determined or identified as a sports article and the user s favorite sports teams and players list can be applied thereto.

In one example as discussed above a user can generate two lists one list for desired food ingredients and another list for unwanted food ingredients. Upon scanning a volume of text the desired ingredients can be highlighted by one color such as green and the unwanted ingredients can be highlighted by another color such as red. In another example a user can create a list of stores to visit in a mall and then scan a mall directory to easily find those stores on the mall directory and or a map of the mall. In another example users could input each medication they are taking. Then upon scanning medicine information for a new medication the user could be presented with information associated with any potential interactions.

In one example a user could input a list of books or authors they want to find. Then upon scanning book spines along a bookshelf can easily find their desired books or authors. Users also want to find all phone numbers and or URLs identified while scanning over text. Further such a method as discussed above can be useful for scanning ingredients of a product identifying allergens such as nuts wheat or milk without having to read through a large volume of small printed text. In another scenario a user can scan a menu at a restaurant highlighting certain ingredients as desirable and others as undesirable. For example a user who likes chicken avocado and Swiss cheese but doesn t like tomato ham or cheddar can choose to highlight the desirable words in green and the undesirable words in red.

In at least one embodiment upon identifying food items such as ingredients on a menu the menu could be augmented with information such as calorie range measure of healthiness or dietary class vegan vegetarian kosher contains meat etc. . Further users may scan either a menu or nutrition facts labels and while words are highlighted information for these nutrition facts can be extracted for other functions such as counting calories fat or sugar intake by scanning text information about what a user eats. Accordingly this information could be integrated with other applications through an Application Programming Interface API which could take the notifications of words on the screen and highlight them in custom ways. For example a company could use Health Diet functionality described above and integrate their system for custom user interaction and experience through an application downloadable to their computing device.

Additional applications include scanning business cards where groups of relevant text are highlighted and augmented. The text of these groups can include a name address email phone numbers title company name etc. A user could also touch these groups to perform relevant actions such bring up a phone dialer when a phone number is clicked for example. Further users can scan pages of a book to search for relevant names characters or other terms. Sentences or paragraphs can also be highlighted depending on what the user desires such as if the user is looking for sentences or paragraphs that contain a certain character or name.

In at least one embodiment users could also pause the live camera view by capturing a single image and interact with the text in a more traditional manner such as searching for words and phrases selecting certain regions or having the text read aloud. Accordingly while viewing the text results users could copy paste edit share search translate or execute other traditional text interactions on the entire text or sub regions of the text.

In this example the computing device has a display screen e.g. an LCD element operable to display information or image content to one or more users or viewers of the device. The display screen of some embodiments displays information to the viewers facing the display screen e.g. on the same side of the computing device as the display screen . The computing device in this example can include one or more imaging elements in this example including two image capture elements on the front of the device and at least one image capture element on the back of the device. It should be understood however that image capture elements could also or alternatively be placed on the sides or corners of the device and that there can be any appropriate number of capture elements of similar or different types. Each image capture element and may be for example a camera a charge coupled device CCD a motion detection sensor or an infrared sensor or other image capturing technology.

As discussed the device can use the images e.g. still or video captured from the imaging elements and to generate a three dimensional simulation of the surrounding environment e.g. a virtual reality of the surrounding environment for display on the display element of the device . Further the device can utilize outputs from at least one of the image capture elements and to assist in determining the location and or orientation of a user and in recognizing nearby persons objects or locations. For example if the user is holding the device the captured image information can be analyzed e.g. using mapping information about a particular area to determine the approximate location and or orientation of the user. The captured image information may also be analyzed to recognize nearby persons objects or locations e.g. by matching parameters or elements from the mapping information .

The computing device can also include at least one microphone or other audio capture elements capable of capturing audio data such as keywords spoken by a user of the device music being hummed by a person near the device or audio being generated by a nearby speaker or other such component although audio elements are not required in at least some devices. In this example there are three microphones one microphone on the front side one microphone on the back and one microphone on or near a top or side of the device. In some devices there may be only one microphone while in other devices there might be at least one microphone on each side and or corner of the device or in other appropriate locations.

The device in this example also includes one or more orientation or position determining elements operable to provide information such as a position direction motion or orientation of the device. These elements can include for example accelerometers inertial sensors electronic gyroscopes and electronic compasses.

The example device also includes at least one communication mechanism such as may include at least one wired or wireless component operable to communicate with one or more electronic devices. The device also includes a power system such as may include a battery operable to be recharged through conventional plug in approaches or through other approaches such as capacitive charging through proximity with a power mat or other such device. Various other elements and or combinations are possible as well within the scope of various embodiments.

The device typically will include some type of display element such as a touch screen electronic ink e ink organic light emitting diode OLED or liquid crystal display LCD although devices such as portable media players might convey information via other means such as through audio speakers.

As discussed the device in many embodiments will include at least one imaging element such as one or more cameras that are able to capture images of the surrounding environment and that are able to image a user people or objects in the vicinity of the device. The image capture element can include any appropriate technology such as a CCD image capture element having a sufficient resolution focal range and viewable area to capture an image of the user when the user is operating the device. Methods for capturing images using a camera element with a computing device are well known in the art and will not be discussed herein in detail. It should be understood that image capture can be performed using a single image multiple images periodic imaging continuous image capturing image streaming etc. Further a device can include the ability to start and or stop image capture such as when receiving a command from a user application or other device.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation determining element able to determine and or detect orientation and or movement of the device. Such an element can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect movement e.g. rotational movement angular displacement tilt position orientation motion along a non linear path etc. of the device . An orientation determining element can also include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect .

As discussed the device in many embodiments will include at least a positioning element for determining a location of the device or the user of the device . A positioning element can include or comprise a GPS or similar location determining elements operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the device. As mentioned above positioning elements may include wireless access points base stations etc. that may either broadcast location information or enable triangulation of signals to determine the location of the device. Other positioning elements may include QR codes barcodes RFID tags NFC tags etc. that enable the device to detect and receive location information or identifiers that enable the device to obtain the location information e.g. by mapping the identifiers to a corresponding location . Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination.

As mentioned above some embodiments use the element s to track the location of a device. Upon determining an initial position of a device e.g. using GPS the device of some embodiments may keep track of the location of the device by using the element s or in some instances by using the orientation determining element s as mentioned above or a combination thereof. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining a position and or orientation can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

The example device also includes one or more wireless components operable to communicate with one or more electronic devices within a communication range of the particular wireless channel. The wireless channel can be any appropriate channel used to enable devices to communicate wirelessly such as Bluetooth cellular NFC or Wi Fi channels. It should be understood that the device can have one or more conventional wired communications connections as known in the art.

The device also includes a power system such as may include a battery operable to be recharged through conventional plug in approaches or through other approaches such as capacitive charging through proximity with a power mat or other such device. Various other elements and or combinations are possible as well within the scope of various embodiments.

In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. These I O devices could even be connected by a wireless infrared or Bluetooth or other link as well in some embodiments. Some devices also can include a microphone or other audio capture element that accepts voice or other audio commands. For example a device might not include any buttons at all but might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. The network could be a push network a pull network or a combination thereof. In a push network one or more of the servers push out data to the client device. In a pull network one or more of the servers send data to the client device upon request for the data by the client device. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing content e.g. production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store is also shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments can be further implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers or computing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system can also include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices can also include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s may also be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch sensitive display element or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices can also include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

