---

title: Social media provocateur detection and mitigation
abstract: A contact center system can receive messages from social media sites or centers. The messages may include derogatory or nefarious content. The system can review messages to identify the message as nefarious and identify the poster as a social media provocateur. The system may then automatically respond to the nefarious content. Further, the system may prevent future nefarious conduct by the identified social media provocateur by executing one or more automated procedures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451085&OS=09451085&RS=09451085
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09451085
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131007
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 809 737 filed Apr. 8 2013 entitled SENTIMENT FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH CONTACT CENTER COMMUNICATIONS which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it teaches and for all purposes.

Communication with customers and the importance of addressing customer concerns continues to grow in importance. However there are a small group of people that are simply looking to cause mayhem dissent or anger in the people using social media. These people are called social media provocateurs trolls etc. Culling this group of people from customers with real concerns is a growing problem.

There are typically three types of provocateurs repeat haters are people who use multiple identities often to escalate an issue that s small i.e. amplify complaint threadjackers are people who deliberately go off topic make off color remarks misdirect bait and switch engage in non productive name calling etc. and fake account creators are people who create accounts with names similar to a company to answer questions from customers to cause trouble. It would be useful to triage sort sift select and respond to the damage caused by the three types of troublemakers before issues escalate.

Typically companies monitor sites for trolling flaming and spamming. Users may be banned when an incident occurs. Registration requiring user information is often used as a deterrent. Laws like the Communications Act 2003 in the United Kingdom allow for prosecution of bad Internet behavior. However these efforts are not efficient or timely. It would be useful to triage sort sift select and respond to the damage caused by the three types of troublemakers before issues escalate.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Embodiments include a method comprising a processor detecting nefarious conduct associated with a social media message the processor routing the social media message to an agent and the processor automatically minimizing the impact of the nefarious conduct.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein detecting nefarious conduct associated with a social media message comprises detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises determining a source of the social media message comparing the social media message with an organizational message identifying an incongruency between the social media message and the organizational message and providing the identified provocateur to an agent.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises associating two or more social media posters comparing the two or more social media posters with information in a past social media message identifying the two or more social media posters as a team and providing information associated with the team to an agent.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises identifying at least one of a common word or a common phrase in the social media message comparing the at least one common word or common phrase to at least one common word or phrase stored in a past message database identifying commonality between at least one common word or one common phrase and providing information about the commonality to an agent.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the commonality identifies the social media provocateur.

An aspect of the above method further compromises the processor automatically preventing future nefarious conduct.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the processor executes an automated response in response to the identified social media provocateur.

Embodiments include a computer readable medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions that cause a computing system to execute a method the instructions comprising instructions to detect nefarious conduct associated with a social media message wherein detecting nefarious conduct associated with a social media message comprises detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message instructions to route the social media message to an agent and instructions to minimize automatically the impact of the nefarious conduct.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein the instructions to detect a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises instructions to determine a source of the social media message instructions to compare the social media message with an organizational message instructions to identify an incongruency between the social media message and the organizational message wherein the incongruency identifies an imposter and instructions to provide the identified provocateur to an agent.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein the instructions to detect a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises instructions to associate two or more social media posters instructions to compare the two or more social media posters with information in a past social media message instructions to identify the two or more social media posters as a team wherein the team is a social media troll and instructions to provide information associated with the team to an agent.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein the instructions to detect a provocateur associated with the social media message comprises instructions to identify at least one of a common word or a common phrase in the social media message instructions to compare the at least one common word or common phrase to at least one common word or phrase stored in a past message database instructions to identify commonality between at least one common word or one common phrase wherein the commonality identifies the social media provocateur and instructions to provide information about the commonality to an agent.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further compromises instructions to prevent automatically future nefarious conduct.

Embodiments include a communication system comprising a social media gateway in communication with a social media network the social media gateway operable to receive a social media message on the social media network a dialog system in communication with the social media gateway the dialog system operable to analyze the social media message wherein the dialog system compromises a analysis tools component that is operable to receive and analyze the social media message wherein the text processing component compromises a provocateur detector module operable detect nefarious conduct associated with a social media message wherein detecting nefarious conduct associated with a social media message comprises detecting a provocateur associated with the social media message an incident routing module in communication with the provocateur detector module wherein the incident routing module is operable to route the social media message to an agent and an impact minimizer module in communication with at least one of the provocateur detector module and the incident routing module wherein the impact minimizer module is operable to minimize automatically the impact of the nefarious conduct.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the provocateur detector module further comprises an imposter detector operable to determine a source of the social media message compare the social media message with an organizational message identify an incongruency between the social media message and the organizational message wherein the incongruency identifies an imposter and provide the identified provocateur to an agent.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the provocateur detector module further comprises a troll detector operable to associate two or more social media posters compare the two or more social media posters with information in a past social media message identify the two or more social media posters as a team wherein the team is a social media troll and provide information associated with the team to an agent.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the provocateur detector module further comprises a commonality detector operable to identify at least one of a common word or a common phrase in the social media message compare the at least one common word or common phrase to at least one common word or phrase stored in a past message database identify commonality between at least one common word or one common phrase wherein the commonality identifies the social media provocateur and provide information about the commonality to an agent.

An aspect of the above communication system further compromises an incident preventer module operable to prevent automatically future nefarious conduct.

Generally companies can manually monitor social media sites for trolling flaming and spamming which requires significant time and resources. However the element of prediction is missing from manual searches. The present system can be capable of detecting providing specialized routing for minimizing the impact of and ultimately stopping damaging posts before those posts become devastating. Thus the system uses techniques and combines them to discover and identify group activity provide special routing and learn what constitutes a real threat.

A first step in the process may be to identify that a problem is starting to develop using content and interaction analyses. A series of analyses may be instituted to analyze and match across posts threads and accounts. The analysis may include content and identity relational analysis and or analysis of tag lines phrases styles and composition signatures. Additional analyses may include pattern analysis of language and responses including finding variations on a company name.

The second step may be routing the postings to specially trained agents and or groups which can be assigned to handle the trolling flaming and spamming. The specially trained agents can use a variety of skills to address the problems and stop the offensive behavior. Agents can also be trained to help law enforcement by gathering certain data on the users.

The third step may be to minimize the impact of the postings by routing provocateurs to specially trained agents and pulling offensive posts early. Here the object is to keep these events and comments from going viral and becoming potentially devastating. The company can create a don t respond message. The system might also hide the negative posts so that no one responds.

A final step may be preventing the conduct by using several types of analyses the system can learn what escalates and goes viral and what causes the most damage. As the system more accurately identifies the situations that escalate the system can also more accurately predict and potentially intervene earlier as the posts arrive. Some examples of how the system and process may function are provided hereinafter.

In a first example the system has detected that a recurring particular posted pattern shows up from DirtyDog then from Troublemaker then from SharkAttack then from Bellyacher and then from Astroturfer. The complaints are all similar and make an issue appear larger than it is. Once the connection is made between the posters all posts by the users are sent to the special handling group and immediately removed from the social media page.

As a second example the system has detected that a poster Taylorsmith commonly uses the phrases throw me in the briar patch and dead men tell no tales. Jamiejohnson also uses the phrases throw me in the briar patch and dead men tell no tales. Both Taylor and Jamie constantly provoke other users and hijack threads. While these are common phrases they are not used frequently and would not appear together often. Using pattern analysis along with word phrase usage analysis the system determines that Taylorsmith and Jamiejohnson are the same user. Posts made by Taylorsmith and Jamiejohnson are routed for special handling. If necessary legal action can be taken with information provided by the agent once the originator is located.

As a final example the system is monitoring for a company name CJet Airlines. The system detects similar company names on pages like CJET Airlines and CJet Airlines. There are complaints and questions which a non company poster has responded inappropriately. Pages and posts are routed for special handling.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term provocateur can refer to user of social media that attempts to illicit negative commentary or damages the reputation of an organization.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects can be separately claimed.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

A user context an extended user context and or a user social context as used herein means information about a user of a social media network that can be used to determine a value of that user.

The term social media network or social media is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Generally social media are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements of the embodiment without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A block diagram depicting components of a communication system is shown in . In particular the communication system can include a contact center . In general the contact center can be in communication with one or more customer endpoints or devices via one or more communication networks . Examples of customer endpoints can include one or more of but are not limited to smartphones desktop computers laptop computers or any other device capable of supporting communications between a customer and a customer service or other agent associated with the contact center using written oral and or electronic communications. Accordingly communications between the contact center and the customer endpoints can comprise email instant messaging a telephone call short message system or other real time or non real time communications. The communication network can include the Internet a local area network LAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN wireless networks or a plurality of networks in any combination.

The contact center generally includes a call or contact center server such as an automatic contact or call distribution system ACD server . The ACD server is illustratively the Communication Manager enterprise communication based ACD system available from Avaya Inc. The ACD server is interconnected to a plurality of agent workstations or endpoints . For example the agent workstations may be connected to the ACD server by an enterprise network or networks .

The contact center server generally functions to connect agent workstations to customer devices or endpoints through the communication network to allow the agents to service customer contacts . The contacts can comprise written electronic communications. However contacts are not necessarily limited to written communications. For example the contact center can additionally handle voice contacts. As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art after consideration of the present disclosure the contact center server can maintain one or more queues for organizing and maintaining or holding contacts waiting for handling by a contact center agent . For example a plurality of queues can be provided to sort contacts according to various parameters. Agents associated with the agent workstations are assigned to provide services to contacts that have been placed within one or more of the queues based on availability and or weighting factors. Moreover the workstations which can comprise general purpose computers thin client devices or other devices generally support the delivery of customer contacts to associated agents and to receive replies to the customer contacts from the agents . In addition the agent workstations can include a user output in the form of a display that can present a determined sentiment or sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to associated agents .

In addition system as described herein can include one or more supervisor or administrator devices . The supervisor device is generally in communication with the contact center server via the communication network and or the enterprise network . For example if the supervisor device is on the premises of the contact center communications with the contact center server may be over a portion of the enterprise network comprising a wired or wireless network. As another example the supervisor device may be in communication with the contact center server over the communication network for example via a cellular telephony data network a wired or wireless connection outside of the enterprise network or the like. In general the supervisor device comprises functionality that allows a supervisor to monitor the health of the contact center and to control aspects of the operation of the contact center . Moreover the supervisor device can present a sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to a supervisor . Accordingly the supervisor device can comprise any device including a mobile device capable of presenting information to a supervisor . Accordingly examples of a supervisor device include but are not limited to a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer a desktop computer a netbook or the like.

A further embodiment of the communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a contact center a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network social media network and or social media network . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke Sina Weibo Pantip or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network s can be any network as described in conjunction with which allow communication between the contact center and the one or more social media networks and or . The network s can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network s provides communication capability for the contact center to communicate with websites or systems corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . The network s may be as described in conjunction with .

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites and or . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may include a dialog system and a social media gateway . While the dialog system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact center system in other situations the dialog system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the contact center and or executed by a third party. The dialog system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the dialog system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API social media network API and or social media network API . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to convert to a common message format for those messages that should be received by the dialog system .

As an alternative or in conjunction with the embodiments described herein the content filter can translate or detect the use of the latin characters from the UNICODE Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms block e.g. the Cyrillic character represented by x430 in the Unicode character set appears identical to the Latin letter a . By substituting standard Latin characters for characters in the Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms block or similar the poster may be seeking to defeat a string comparison or a regular expression matching method that may detect target words and or phrases. To combat this type of character set spoofing the content filter can translate all the characters from the Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms block or similar into a standard Latin representation before processing the message. Alternatively or additionally the content filter can flag i.e. save an indication with the message of the translation or presence of the Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms block the message. The flag may be later used to determine if the posting is a troll post. The presence of Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms block characters or similar may not always indicate that the message is a troll post because there may be cases where a non native English user is legitimately attempting to create a message and uses a mix of standard Latin characters and characters from their language range. The translation or flagging of the message may also assist in evaluating the similarity of user names when someone is trying to spoof the detection by using alternative Latin characters in the creation of their username.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or customer of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks and or as some social media networks and or may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks and or . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application which may be provided by the social media network and or to access the social media network s and or . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of the source of a posting an address field a destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and or a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be the name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks and or are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks and or .

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the dialog system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the dialog system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or .

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center . For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network and or such as Facebook . The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook . This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other circumstances the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center . For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center . The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks and or . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks and or . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media network and or might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and a social media network and or but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks and or .

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the dialog system . However in other situations the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the dialog system . For example a message from a social media network and or may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center . Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the dialog system . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the dialog system . Thus the dialog system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted.

The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network and or while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks and or . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the dialog system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the dialog system . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the dialog system . Thus the dialog system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be received in a general format and then translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

An embodiment of the dialog system is shown in . The dialog system can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The dialog system can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the dialog system can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the dialog system can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the dialog system in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks and or .

The dialog creator can create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center . The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can be a database as described in conjunction with and can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure may decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks and or . The two messages can be from different social media network and or so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks and or . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks and or . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks or or other contacts. Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. In addition for possibly longer documents such as blogs or emails the text processing component may execute one or more methods of document summarization. The summarization may occur if the social media message will be sent to an agent of the contact center the summarization can reduce the amount of information that the agent may manage. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database . The text processing rules database can be a database as described in conjunction with that stores rules or models used by the text processing component .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures. The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure. Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks and or . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media network and or . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center . An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message or other contact. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other situations the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media network and or . It should be noted that the answer based agent routing described hereinafter may be implemented in other types of call center or customer service centers other than that previously described. Thus the answer based agent routing systems and methods described hereinafter are not limited to the social media call center described above.

An embodiment of an analysis tools component is shown in . The analysis tools component can include one or more modules that perform different functions. These modules may be embodied in hardware software and or hardware and software. The analysis tools component can include a provocateur detector an incident routing module an impact minimizer and or an incident preventer . These modules may communicate retrieve store and or manage data in one or more databases. For example the modules may communicate with a past incidence past provocateurs database and or an automated responses database .

The provocateur detector can detect provocateurs or incidences of provocateur involvement in social media message s . Thus the messages may be one or more social media messages or other types of messages received by the analysis tools component . The provocateur detector may analyze the messages along with or compared to past incidence and past provocateurs data in database to determine if a provocateur is involved in one or more messages . An embodiment of the provocateur detector is explained in conjunction with . If there is a detection of a provocateur or a detection of nefarious conduct involved in a message the provocateur detector can route the message or messages to the incident routing module .

Incident routing module may access automated responses and procedures database to determine an appropriate response to the detected involvement of a provocateur. The incident routing module may route the message to a specially trained agent to react to the provocateur. Alternatively or in combination with the embodiments described herein the incident routing module can generate an automatic response to the message or conduct some other automated procedure that may mitigate or obviate the provocateur s involvement. Alternatively or in combination with the embodiments described herein the incident routing module can pass the message or messages to the impact minimizer .

The impact minimizer module may also access automated responses procedures database to retrieve a minimization procedure. Minimizing the impact of a provocateur or nefarious conduct may include but is not limited to eliminating comments to a social media posting providing an automated message to a social media site to eliminate the provocateur from posting comments shutting down one or more websites or accounts or other types of responses. The impact minimizer may therefore try to automatically minimize any kind of harm that may be done by a detected provocateur. Alternatively or in combination with the embodiments described herein the incident messages may be passed from the impact minimizer to the incident preventer module .

The incident preventer module may conduct procedures to prevent any type of future or ongoing impact by the detected provocateur. The incident preventer can register or store information about the provocateur such that when that provocateur appears on a future posting the incident preventer may conduct automatic functions to prevent any type of harm without having to first detect that provocateur. The automated prevention allows the system to become more effective and robust as different incidences involving provocateurs are first detected and responded to.

Alternatively or in combination with the embodiments described herein the messages may be passed by one or more modules to a trained agent per the guidance of the incident routing module . The agent may be a specially trained agent that can respond specifically to such incidences involving social media provocateurs. It should be noted that incident routing module impact minimization module and incident preventer module may function together or may be alternatives and thus the analysis tools component may only include one of these modules. The automated responses and procedures database can include one or more automated responses or procedures for use by the incident routing module impact minimizer module and or incident preventer module .

An embodiment of a provocateur detector module is shown in . The provocateur detector may include one or more sub modules which can include but is not limited to an imposter detector a troll or team detector and or a commonality detector . There may be more detectors associated with the provocateur detector which are not shown in .

An example of one of the detectors the imposter detector can determine a certain type of provocateur. With the imposter detector the messages are scanned to determine if a posting was made by a person posing or impersonating someone involved with the organization. For example someone may ask a question about an airline. A provocateur may appear to be an employee of the airline based on some indicia provided to the person asking the question. This impostor may post a response or some information in response to or in relation to the question asked. However the posting may not be from the organization and may include information that angers or disturbs the person asking the question.

Thus the imposter detector can determine based on information collected or stored with the organization whether any posting was made by the organization. If a posting was made by the organization but the response was made at a different time or by a different person the imposter may be detected. In other examples if no posting has been made by the organization the imposter detector can determine that the response or posting that appears to be from the organization is from a provocateur. Thus the imposter detector can detect incongruencies between a response made on a social media site and any messages generated by the organization. The incongruencies including any information about the impostor may be stored in the past incidence past provocateurs database . Further the incongruencies and provocateur detection may then be passed onto the incident routing module by the imposter detector .

A team or troll detector can determine if a team of responders appears to be working together or in collaboration. The troll detector can monitor negative postings that appear to be derogatory. The social media identifiers or other identifying information about the posters may be stored. If another set of postings is made that appear to be from the same group that are also derogatory the troll detector can determine that the group of posters are working together to cause problems on the social media site. This team may then be determined to be part of the same provocateur team and their information and any of the messages may be passed to the incident routing module .

The commonality detector may analyze and store information about derogatory and negative postings in a past incidence past provocateurs database . Any common words phrases or unique attributes of one message may be compared to past messages. If there is a likeness between the phraseology the words used or other characteristics of the messages the commonality detector may associate the social media identifiers IDs or and the messages of the provocateur s posting as associated messages. In this way the commonality detector may identify provocateurs regardless of whether those provocateurs are using numerous different IDs on the same social media site. Further the commonality detector may also identify provocateurs across different social media sites based on the provocateurs use of language or other attributes of the postings .

In addition or in the alternative the commonality detector can examine messages using similarity metrics e.g. Cosine Similarity or the equivalent to detect similarity in the entire message content. This message analysis can detect the cases where the poster is repeatedly posting the same or nearly the same message using one or more identities and or across one or more media channels.

A database for storing information about social media provocateurs which may be the same or similar to negative positive terms database is shown in . The database can include one or more rows which can include data about a social media poster or possible provocateur. Each row may be information about a single provocateur. Alternatively each provocateur may have two or more different rows associated with their information. The rows may have one or more fields of data which can include but are not limited to a poster identifier an associations field a postings field a common terms field and a common phrases field . The database may include more or fewer fields than those shown in as represented by ellipses .

A poster identifier ID can be any identifier that uniquely identifies that poster of social media content. Thus the poster identifier can be a globally unique identifier GUID a numeric identifier an alphanumeric identifier etc. These poster IDs may be provided for a poster after receiving a negative or derogatory posting associated with that poster. The poster ID can also include the user name or information from a social media site that identifies the poster on that social media site. If the poster has several different IDs those IDs may be consolidated into a single row after determining the association between the different social media site user names or identifiers. Thus one poster identifier may be associated with several user names from different social media sites.

The associations field can include any type of associations with other users or other user names of the poster. For example if the poster is associated with a team of different users that are working together to post derogatory information on a social media site the associations may include the user names or posters IDs from those other users. The associations can be pointers or other links to the other team members. Further or alternatively the associations may include the other user names used by this poster that are associated with the identifier .

The postings may include either the text content or links to stored content for this poster. Thus the postings include the raw data or at least some form of data about the social media postings. These postings allow for future analysis or response by agents once the agent receives the posting.

Common terms can include one or more different words or writing style information used by the poster. These terms can be used to identify the poster in future postings. Thus the common terms for example may include different or interesting words used in postings that may be used to identify the poster as being the author of future postings. Common phrases similar to the common terms include phrases writing style information or other information that can also identify the poster . Between the common terms and common phrases the system may be able to identify a poster s writing style identify that poster in future postings and associate those different messages with past messages stored in postings .

Metadata includes an information beyond the content of postings that describes or characterizes a social media posting a poster a poster s account etc. The metadata is in general information about information. Thus the metadata can include the data or time when a posting was made the amount of data in a posting from where the posting was made etc. Further the metadata can include information about a poster s activity level the poster s friends or connections with other posters a poster s nickname etc. Still further the metadata can include information about a poster s account for example the date the account was created the biographical data associated with the account the activity on the account etc. The metadata may also be analyzed to identify social media provocateurs.

An embodiment of a method for responding to social media provocateurs is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The contact center server can receive messages . The messages may be social media messages that are received through a social media gateway and provided to the dialog system . The dialog core of the dialog system may then process the messages. The messages may be sent to the provocateur detector of the analysis tool component . The provocateur detector may then detect nefarious conduct in step for the set of messages received from the social media networks through . Thus the provocateur detector may process the message with the imposter detector the troll detector the commonality detector and or one or more other modules. An example of the detection of nefarious conduct may be as shown in method described in conjunction with .

Upon detecting nefarious conduct from a social media provocateur the provocateur detector may send the message s to the incident routing module or another module . From there the message s may be responded to or managed through one or more alternative steps. While the steps described herein may be alternative they may also be done in concert or in combination with each other to provide a more effective response to the nefarious conduct.

The incident routing module may access automated responses and procedures from database . One of the procedures may be to route the messages to an agent in step . Thus the incident routing module may identify an agent and tag the messages or message with the agent information to be sent to the agent . The incident routing module may then send the message to the agent and or pass the message to the impact minimizer module .

The impact minimizer module may then minimize the impact of the conduct in step . The impact minimizer may access the automated responses and procedures database to extract one or more procedures to address the nefarious conduct. These procedures may include but are not limited to sending an automated response that is associated with whichever social media site through to which the message was received. The response may target the provocateur s and request or direct some action to be taken. Thus if social media site allows for the blocking of content from a certain user the impact minimizer may block further content from that user on that string or on any posting associated with the organization on the social media network . Further if another social media site allows for the user to be reported or to be removed from the site the impact minimizer may automatically alert the social media site of the nefarious conduct and the identifier for the provocateur who is responsible. The social media network may then remove that provocateur from the site . Other minimization techniques may be allowed and provided in the step .

The impact minimizer module may then send the message to the incident preventer module . The incident preventer module may prevent future conduct in step . Here the incident preventer module may also access the automated responses and procedures database to extract procedures for preventing future nefarious conduct from the identified social media provocateurs. Similar to the impact minimizer module the incident preventer module may conduct different procedures based on the protocols of the social media networks through .

For example the incident preventer may report the social media provocateur to a social media network or to other social media networks to which the social media provocateur had yet to post. Thus the incident preventer module can prevent nefarious conduct by an identified social media provocateur at the site where the social media provocateur provides content or other sites where it is known the social media provocateur has access. Thus the incident preventer module can prevent the conduct by a single provocateur team of provocateurs on several social media networks through based on postings only in a single social media site. Further the incident preventer can remove content from other sites or can prohibit comments on content at other sites or at the current site. All these automated procedures may be done to limit the ability for a social media provocateur to post nefarious content. It is understood by one skilled in the art that there may be other procedures for preventing nefarious conduct by social media provocateurs that may be conducted by the incident preventer module .

An embodiment of a method for identifying social media provocateurs is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The provocateur detector can receive messages in step . The messages may be received by the dialog core of the dialog system from one or more social media sites through . The messages may be one or more social media messages obtained from one or more social media sites. The messages may be interrelated based on posters timing common themes etc. The messages may then be provided to one or more of the modules of the provocateur detector .

In step the imposter detector determines the source of the one or more messages. The source may be the poster or include some information that is associated with a person or entity that posted the social media content. The source may also include any information that is stored within the past incidence or the past provocateurs database . For example the source information may be associated with the poster ID or associations .

The information in the source may then be compared to past organizational messages step . Here the imposter detector may access past messages sent from the dialog system . For example the message history database may be accessed to determine which messages were sent by the dialog system . Those messages may have a source or agent and time or temporal information. This information may be compared to the source and other information associated with the received message .

If there is no message which seems to relate to a message sent in the message history database the imposter detector can identify those incongruencies in step . In this way if there is no message which appears to be sent or posted on a social media network through by the organization the imposter detector can flag that message as coming from an imposter posing as the organization on the social media site. This information may then be provided along with the information about the provocateur to the incident routing module in step .

In the alternative or in conjunction with the embodiment above the imposter detector can also analyze any metadata associated with the poster the posted content or the poster s account. Here the imposter detector can detect anomalies or oddities with the poster or posting. For example if the poster s account is very new or has little activity this information may alert the imposter detector that the content is likely from a provocateur. In another example if the team members are linked to the poster s account this information may also indicate that the team is working together and are provocateurs. Metadata from the team members can also be analyzed. Thus the imposter detector can conduct a profile analysis that scrutinizes the poster for associations e.g. are your friend s trolls or your friends friends trolls etc. and or attributes of the poster s profile that may be suspicious e.g. is the profile not filled out completely has few friends was created yesterday rarely posts etc. . Other methods of completing profile analysis may be used as understood by one skilled in the art. These incongruencies may also be passed to an agent or other module.

The troll or team detector can receive the messages and associate the multiple posters in several messages in step . Here based on the temporal proximity of messages posted on a social media site the troll detector can associate two or more posters as possibly working together. The identities of these different posters may be extracted along with any information that may identify those posters.

The troll detector may then scan the poster IDs and associations to determine if these posters have had a past association or collaboration in posting derogatory messages in social media sites. If there are past associations stored in field the troll detector can identify the trolls or team members by their identity in step . Thus the identities of the different trolls or team members and the messages may be sent to the incident routing module in step .

The commonality detector can receive messages and parse those messages to determine common words or phrases within those messages in step . These common words or phrases may be extracted or identified through known language processing techniques. These common words or phrases may then be used to compare to the common terms and or common phrases in the database in step . Here the commonality detector tries to determine an identity of a poster based on that poster s past language usage. If there are common terms or common phrases that compare with those used in the present message or messages the commonality detector can identify those commonalities or associations and pinpoint the poster s identity in step . This poster identity information may then be passed to the agent incident routing module in step . Any information determined from the messages may be stored in database for future use. The different techniques of detecting possible social media provocateurs may be used as alternatives or may be combined together in different types of arrangements to identify social media provocateurs.

Environment further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 702.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server . In this example server is shown as a web server and server is shown as an application server. The web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The environment may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s and or may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the server and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web file server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the web server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and web file server and or web application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The environment may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. The database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. The database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. The computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

