---

title: Method of fabricating vertically aligned group III-V nanowires
abstract: A top-down method of fabricating vertically aligned Group III-V micro- and nanowires uses a two-step etch process that adds a selective anisotropic wet etch after an initial plasma etch to remove the dry etch damage while enabling micro/nanowires with straight and smooth faceted sidewalls and controllable diameters independent of pitch. The method enables the fabrication of nanowire lasers, LEDs, and solar cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08895337&OS=08895337&RS=08895337
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08895337
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130117
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 588 446 filed Jan. 19 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 434 646 filed Mar. 29 2012 and SD12195 titled Amber Light Emitting Diode Comprising a Group III Nitride Nanowire Active Region filed of even date with this application both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to compound semiconductor micro nanowire arrays and in particular to a top down method of fabricating vertically aligned Group III V micro and nanowires.

Improving the performance of Group III nitride e.g. AlGaInN based devices including light emitting diodes LEDs has been the intense focus of research and development efforts worldwide. While current LEDs are based on planar thin film architectures vertically aligned nanowires also called nanorods or nanocolumns are being explored as an alternative architecture. Several advantages of nanowire based devices and LEDs have been recently reported. For example nanowire based LEDs can enhance light extraction due to light scattering optical mode elimination and efficient light out coupling. See C. H. Kuo et al. 22 257 2010 . Strain relaxed bottom up nanowire growth also enables high crystalline quality with significantly reduced threading dislocation densities. See S. D. Hersee et al. 6 1808 2006 . Higher indium compositions which are desired for longer green red wavelength emission can be achieved with nanowires because of their compliance properties and strain relief mechanisms. See Q. M. Li and G. T. Wang 97 181107 2010 and T. Kuykendall et al. 6 951 2007 . Variability in the emission wavelengths across nanowires within an ensemble can lead to phosphor free white LEDs. See H. W. Lin et al. 97 073101 2010 and H. Sekiguchi K. Kishino and A. Kikuchi 96 231104 2010 . Additionally suppressed quantum confined Stark effect QCSE and reduced droop in InGaN GaN nanowires have also been reported. See C. Y. Wang et al. 16 10549 2008 and H. P. T. Nguyen et al. 11 1919 2011 . Finally the geometry of nanowires allows them to act as lasing cavities enabling nanosized lasers.

Growth of InGaN GaN based nanowire LEDs by bottom up methods including hydride vapor phase epitaxy and molecular beam epitaxy have been demonstrated. See H. M. Kim et al. 4 1059 2004 H. W. Lin et al. 97 073101 2010 H. P. T. Nguyen et al. 11 1919 2011 and K. Kishino et al. InGaN GaN nanocolumn LEDs emitting from blue to red art. no. 64730T in H. L. C. W. Morkoc ed. SPIE Bellingham Wash. 2007 pp. T4730 T4730. However relatively low growth temperature and low V to III ratio are commonly used to promote anisotropic one dimensional crystal growth. Metal catalyzed grown nanowires also require narrow growth conditions which involves lower than optimal growth temperatures. See G. T. Wang et al. 17 5773 2006 . These growth conditions may introduce higher impurities and point defect densities than the conditions used for creating commercial quality planar LEDs and provide less flexibility for adjusting growth parameters to optimize doping concentrations and other desired material properties. See A. A. Talin et al. 92 093105 2008 and P. C. Upadhya et al. 25 024017 2010 .

In contrast nanowires fabricated by top down methods are etched from planar thin film structures grown under optimized growth conditions obviating these disadvantages. Tapered non faceted InGaN based nanowire LEDs have been previously demonstrated by plasma etching planar LED structures. See C. Y. Wang et al. 16 10549 2008 and C. H. Chiu et al. 445201 2007 . However the top down plasma etching leads to damaged rough and non faceted sidewalls with defects and leakage currents that limits performance. See C. Y. Wang et al. 16 10549 2008 .

Therefore the present invention is directed to a top down method for fabricating vertically aligned Group III V micro or nanowires using a two step etch process that adds a selective anisotropic wet etch after an initial plasma etch to remove the dry etch damage while enabling micro and nanowires with straight and smooth faceted sidewalls and controllable diameters independent of pitch.

The present invention is directed to a method to fabricate vertically aligned Group III V nanowires including Group III N nitride III N or AlGaInN nanowires. The method enables the fabrication of micro nanowire based devices such as nanowire LED arrays lasers and solar cells from planar epitaxial or bulk structures. In contrast to previous work this top down method combines the plasma etch with a subsequent wet etch which allows for removal of the plasma etch damage while enabling straight nanowire sidewalls and control over the nanowire geometry. The resulting nanowire structures are virtually free of dislocations depending on the dislocation density of the initial material the nanowires are etched from.

The present invention is directed to a method of fabricating vertically aligned Group III V micro or nanowires. The method comprises providing a Group III V substrate or at least one Group III V layer on a growth substrate coating the top surface of the Group III V substrate or layer with an etch mask anisotropically etching e.g. via dry etching the Group III V substrate or at least one layer through the etch mask and removing the etch mask to provide an array of nanowires and selectively wet etching the sidewalls of the nanowires to remove anisotropic etch damage and provide an array of vertically aligned Group III V nanowires. The nanowires can have a variety of cross sections depending on the etch chemistry including circular. The wire diameters and lengths can be controlled by the etch times. The method is scalable from nanowire cross sectional dimension e.g. diameter of approximately 5 nm to 100 microns. Therefore the terms microwire nanowire and micro nanowire are used interchangeably herein. Further the term micro or nanowire can be used interchangeably with the terms nanocolumn nanopillar or nanorod or micro variations thereof. The Group III V compound semiconductor can comprise one or more Group III element such as aluminum gallium or indium and one or more Group V element such as antimony arsenic phosphorous or nitrogen. For example the Group III V compound semiconductor can be a Group III nitride as described in further detail in the examples below. However the method can be generalized to other Group III V semiconductors by modifying the etch chemistries. For Group III nitrides the growth substrate can comprise sapphire. However other Group III V compatible growth substrates can also be used such as silicon germanium copper silicon carbide GaN AlN ZnO or GaAs. The etch mask can comprise a hexagonally close packed silica colloid monolayer. However many other types of etch masks can also be used such as a lithographically patterned dielectric or metal layer. In one embodiment following etching of the nanowires co axial shell layers can be grown around the vertically aligned nanowire cores to create radial heterostructure nanowires for devices such as LEDs and solar cells.

One embodiment of the invention shown in is directed to a method of fabricating an array of vertically aligned Group III V nanowires . This embodiment comprises providing a Group III V layer on a substrate coating the Group III V layer with an etch mask plasma etching the Group III V layer through the etch mask and removing the etch mask to provide a semi periodic array of tapered nanowires and selectively wet etching the sidewalls of the tapered nanowires to provide an array of vertically aligned Group III V nanowires . This method enables precise control over the nanowire geometry.

As an example of this embodiment described below is a top down fabrication method which produced uniform and vertically aligned GaN nanowire arrays from c plane GaN epilayers on sapphire with low defect density and smooth sidewalls. shows SEM images of the top down GaN nanowires during the fabrication process. Starting from Si doped planar GaN epilayers grown on 2 c plane sapphire wafers in a metal organic chemical vapor deposition reactor a 2 step etching process was used a lithographic dry etch followed by an anisotropic wet etch. Following a process reported by Reculusa and Ravaine a monolayer of 3 m diameter silica colloids was self assembled on the GaN surface in a Langmuir Blodgett trough prior to etching to serve as a semi periodic lithographic etch mask. See S. Reculusa and S. Ravaine 15 598 2003 . GaN posts were subsequently formed by a plasma dry etch. As shown in the resulting posts were tapered with large cross section areas. Moreover ion bombardment during the plasma etch damaged the nanowire surface as evidenced by a significant increase in yellow luminescence. See Q. M. Li et al. 19 25528 2011 . These issues were resolved during the second wet etch step. show SEM images of the posts after 2 hours 6 hours and 9 hours from the start of the wet etch. With the anisotropic wet etch step non tapered GaN nanowires were created with damage free surfaces hexagonal cross sections with m plane 10 10 sidewall facets and a top c plane 0001 resonator end facet. The GaN nanowire length was determined by the original GaN epilayers thickness and its width was determined by the duration of the wet etch. For example such GaN nanowires can be used to provide single mode GaN nanowire laser. See Q. Li et al. 20 17873 2012 .

In another embodiment shown in the at least one Group III V layer comprises a lighting emitting diode LED structure. As shown in the LED structure can comprise a base n type layer on a substrate a planar multiple quantum well MQW heterostructure on the base n type layer and a top p type layer on the quantum well structure . As shown in the LED structure can then be covered with an etch mask . As shown in the planar LED structure can then be dry plasma etched through the etch mask and the etch mask removed to provide a semi periodic array of truncated tapered e.g. cone shaped nanowires . Finally as shown in the sidewalls of the tapered nanowires can be anisotropically wet etched to remove the plasma etch damage and provide vertically aligned Group III V nanowires . Alternatively vertically aligned Group III V nanowires can be made using an inverted heterostructure comprising a base p type layer and a top n type layer. Alternatively rather than using a base n or p type layer on a growth substrate a n or p type bulk substrate can also be used. The Group III V structure can comprise a Group III nitride structure such as GaN AlN AlGaN InN InGaN or AlInGaN that is undoped n type doped or p type doped. Other Group III V structures such as AllnGaAs or AlInGaP can also be used.

As an example of this embodiment the LED structure can comprise an n type GaN base layer on a sapphire substrate a planar InGaN based MQW structure on the n type GaN base layer and a top p type GaN layer on the MQW structure. Accordingly a prototypical InGaN GaN MQW planar LED structure was first grown on c plane sapphire in a metal organic chemical vapor deposition reactor. The LED structure consisted of a 2.5 m thick Si doped n type GaN layer grown at 1050 C. followed by a 5 period MQW comprised of 2.5 nm thick InGaN wells and 7.2 nm thick GaN barriers grown at 770 C. In addition a 22 nm thick p AlGaN layer and a 200 nm thick p type GaN contact layer were grown sequentially after the MQWs. After the growth a close packed monolayer of 1 m diameter silica spheres was self assembled on the GaN surface in a Langmuir Blodgett trough as previously reported. See Q. Li et al. 94 231105 2009 . The silica colloid monolayer functions as a mask in a subsequent inductively coupled plasma etch. Previously plasma etching has been used to create GaN nanowires and GaN based LED nanowires using various etch masks. See Y. D. Wang et al. 86 071917 2005 C. Y. Wang et al. 16 10549 2008 and C. H. Chiu et al. 445201 2007 . The plasma etch step was followed with a selective KOH based wet etch AZ400K photoresist developer AZ Electronic Materials USA Corp . See M. A. Miller et al. 38 533 2009 and D. A. Stocker et al. 73 2654 1998 . With this etchant the top Ga polar c plane surface has a near zero etch rate while the 10 10 m plane sidewalls have a relatively fast etch rate compared to the other planes. As a result the height of nanowire LEDs remains constant and the tapered sidewalls are eventually replaced with six straight and smooth m plane sidewalls. The nanowire LED array and the original planar LED control sample were characterized by scanning electron microscopy SEM x ray diffraction ACRD transmission electron microscopy TEM and temperature 4K 298K and pump power dependent photoluminescence PL .

In addition to allowing for control of the nanowire geometry the wet etch step also serves to remove damage in the nanowire sidewalls caused by high energy ion bombardment during the plasma etch. This ion damage was reported to cause a Ga rich surface in GaN films with efficient nonradiative recombination centers and a deterioration in PL intensity. See H. W. Choi et al. 77 1795 2000 and Y. K. Byeun et al. 6 197 2005 . Moreover vacancies may form near the surface region and trap or scatter carriers leading to high static resistance and reduced carrier mobility. See S. J. Chua et al. 64 205302 2001 . Room temperature PL 266 nm pump indicates a strong defect related yellow luminescence from GaN nanowires etched from a GaN epilayer after the plasma etch as shown in . However after subsequent wet etching the nanowire samples in AZ400K the yellow luminescence intensity was significantly reduced to a level similar to that of the planar GaN thin film prior to the plasma etch. This result unambiguously shows the wet etch step successfully removes the damage caused by the plasma etch. The slight red shift of the band edge luminescence in the nanowire samples compared to the planar sample may be a result of laser induced heating effects caused by poorer thermal transport properties. See H. W. Li et al. 18 216 2006 . However drawing conclusions based on comparing the absolute band edge and yellow intensities of the samples is difficult as various factors can impact the PL intensities. For example the nanowire samples likely experience enhanced pump laser absorption and higher light extraction efficiencies but have only a small fraction of the original volume of the planar sample. However the relative contribution of each of these factors cannot be deconvolved.

Bright field TEM imaging was performed to study the dislocation morphology of the nanowires under multi beam conditions to reveal dislocations with different Burger s vectors. Typical TEM images are shown in and . TEM imaging of 100 randomly sampled nanowires revealed that 94 nanowires were free of threading dislocations. The threading dislocation density in the initial planar LEDs epilayers before etching was measured to be 5 dislocations m 5 10cm which is typical for commercial quality LEDs. Thus for nanowire diameters 150 nm with cross sectional area 0.02 pre the average number of dislocations per nanowire was 0.1. In reality each nanowire either had one or more dislocations or was dislocation free. Therefore unlike bulk LEDs which have a distribution of dislocations throughout a nanowire LED array is comprised of individual LED elements which are largely dislocation free. This nearly dislocation free nanowire architecture can compared to planar LEDs have lower leakage currents less non radiative recombination higher IQE and higher lifespan. This result also shows that nanowires formed by top down etching can be nearly dislocation free even though they are not grown strain relaxed like bottom up nanowires.

The room temperature PL spectra of the nanowire LED InGaN MQWs excited by a 413.1 nm Krypton ion laser are compared to the planar LED in and . The PL spectra peak positions were determined using Gaussian fit and plotted as a function of pumping power in . For both structures there is a blue shift in the emission wavelength with pump power carrier injection caused by free carrier screening of the QCSE. The QCSE results from spontaneous polarization field caused by low symmetry of c plane III nitride crystal structure and piezoelectric polarization field caused by lattice mismatch strain at InGaN GaN interfaces. These internal fields may lower the IQE by reducing carrier wavefunction overlap. By comparing 0002 2 XRD scans taken before and after nanowire etching and by applying an appropriate elasticity theory analysis it was estimated that the coherency strain of the individual InGaN QWs was reduced by 16 4 because of the elastic response enabled by nanowire formation. A further comparison of the planar sample s emission at low power 445 nm to the bulk bandgap of InGaN 426 nm indicated a QW Stark shift in the planar sample of 19 nm. See J. Wu et al. 80 4741 2002 . Assuming that the change in strain linearly alters the piezoelectrically dominated Stark shift a 3.0 nm blue shift 0.16 19 nm for the nanowire QW emission was estimated relative to that of the planar sample. In is shown a measured blue shift of 4 nm from about 445 to 441 nm for the planar vs. nanowire sample at low power in approximate agreement with the estimates and in support of partial QW strain relaxation due to wire formation. A smaller maximum blue shift of 2 nm in the nanowire InGaN peak position as the pumping power was increased from 0 to 100 mW compared to the 6 nm shift observed in the planar LED is also evidence for reduced QCSE in the nanowire LEDs consistent with a previous report. See C. Y. Wang et al. 16 10549 2008 .

Due to the reduction in the piezoelectric polarization fields and relative lack of dislocations the internal quantum efficiency of the nanowire LEDs might be expected to improve compared to the planar LED. As shown in the IQE of the nanowire and planar LEDs were measured by comparing their integrated PL intensity at room temperature with the maximum intensity measured at 4 K and assuming unity IQE at 4 K. Due to increased light scattering and light absorption the nanowire LEDs likely experience a much higher equivalent pumping intensity carrier concentration at a given laser power compared to the planar sample leading to the early peaking of the IQE. The IQE of the nanowire LEDs peaks at 3 mW 24 while the planar LED reaches its maximum IQE of 27 at a much higher pump power of 55 mW. The peak IQEs are comparable so the formation of the nanowires did not compromise the IQE in an overly detrimental way. Additionally it is possible that the decrease in IQE in the nanowire LEDs at relatively low pump powers may be caused by heating from the laser due to the poor thermal transport properties of nanowires. This is supported by the red shift at higher pump powers observed in consistent with a previous report where laser induced produced redshifts in GaN nanowires during PL experiments. See H. W. Li et al. 18 216 2006 .

Another embodiment shown in is directed to a method for fabricating vertically aligned core shell nanowires. First an array of vertically aligned Group III V nanowires is fabricated according to the method shown in comprising providing a Group III V layer on a substrate coating the Group III V layer with an etch mask plasma etching the Group III V layer through the etch mask to provide a semi periodic array of tapered nanowires and selectively wet etching the sidewalls of the tapered nanowires to provide an array of vertically aligned Group III V nanowires on the substrate as shown in . As shown in this embodiment further comprises growing a shell layer comprising at least one Group III V layer coaxially around each of the vertically aligned Group III V nanowires to provide an array of hybrid core shell nanowire structures as shown in . The method can further comprise growing a top layer on the shell layers . In some embodiments the top layer can coalesce on the top to form a continuous canopy layer that can electrically connect the tops and sides of the vertically aligned core shell nanowires . For example the Group III V nanowires can comprise Group III nitride nanowires. As described below the Group III nitride nanowires can comprise vertically aligned n type GaN nanowires. The shell layer can comprise a coaxial Group III nitride MQW structure such as an InGaN GaN or GaN AlGaN based MQW structure. The canopy layer can comprise p type InGaN. Alternatively an inverted structure can comprise an array of vertically aligned p type GaN nanowire cores surrounded by a Group III nitride MQW shell layer and an n type GaN canopy layer. Other Group III nitride and Group III V core shell structures can also be used.

As an example of this embodiment core n type GaN nanowires were created by top down fabrication starting with an n GaN layer on a sapphire substrate using a colloidal silica mask creating a semi periodic array with for example an average pitch of 500 nm and 900 nm height. Construction of the layer structure began with growing a 4 m thick GaN template layer on c plane sapphire by metal organic chemical vapor deposition in a reactor using a two step approach and a delayed recovery technique yielding GaN with a threading dislocation density TDDs of 7 10cm. See S. Nakamura 30 L1705 1991 and D. D. Koleske et al. 81 1940 2002 . Next the template was removed from the reactor and covered with a masking layer consisting of a hexagonally close packed monolayer of self assembled colloidal silica spheres formed in a Langmuir Blodgett trough. See Q. Li et al. 94 231105 2009 . The masked sample was then subjected to a Cl based inductively coupled plasma ICP etch forming a semi periodic array of vertically aligned nanowires. The resulting nanowires were tapered with wider diameters at the base have an average pitch of 500 nm that is determined by the diameter of the colloidal silica spheres and were uniform in height 900 nm . The nanowires were then subject to an anisotropic KOH based AZ400K photoresist developer wet etch that removed surface damage from the ICP etch and formed 100 nm diameter cylindrically shaped nanowires. An array of nanowires formed in this way but using a colloidal silica sphere diameter of 1 m is shown in the scanning electron microscope SEM image of . Due to the faster wet etch rate of planes perpendicular to the Ga polar 0001 top facet the resultant nanowire has micro faceted sidewalls with preferred 10 10 m plane exposed facets and a 0001 c plane top facet. This top down fabrication technique of the GaN nanowires has several advantages including all the nanowires have the same height subsequent growth is on defined crystal facets and dry etch damage is removed. Interestingly although the TDD is not zero as can be achieved in bottom up grown nanowires only about 5 percent or fewer of the nanowires have threading dislocations based on the TDD of the initial film and the nanowire diameter and pitch as previously shown.

Following the top down fabrication of the ordered n type GaN nanowire array the sample was returned to the reactor and shell layers are grown. For this example an 80 nm thick n type GaN layer was first grown followed by the absorbing shell layers consisting of a 15 nm thick InGaN layer at 870 C. and an eight period multiple quantum well MQW structure. The MQW consisted of 4 nm thick InGaN quantum wells grown at 760 C. and 10 nm thick Si doped n type GaN barriers. This was capped with 8 nm of undoped GaN. During growth of the shell layers the formation of new semi polar 10 11 facets occurs at the nanowire tip and base resulting in the extinction of the top c plane facet and creating nanowires with a pointed apex. The structure was completed by growth of a p type InGaN canopy layer grown at 870 C. Initially this layer grew on all facets of the nanowires and then the layer coalesced and grew only on the top forming a continuous film that electrically connected the tops and sides of all the nanowires.

The nanowire structure was further revealed by cross sectional scanning transmission electron microscopy STEM and energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy EDS . The STEM sample was prepared by focused ion beam milling where the MQWs in view in are located on m plane facets oriented perpendicular to the page. The cross sectional STEM images in and show the nanowires have a diameter of 400 nm at a point halfway up the height of the nanowire leaving 100 nm spaces between nanowires. The MQWs grow on all of the exposed facets and growth on the m plane facets is faster than on the 10 11 facets as shown in the close up image in . For the 10 11 facets the wells and barriers are each 1.5 nm thick. The MQW thickness on the m plane facets varies along the height of the nanowire. Non uniform distribution in growth products along the height of the nanowire creates faster growth at the top of the m plane sidewalls. At the top of the nanowire sidewalls the well and barrier thicknesses are 2.5 nm and 9 nm respectively. At the bottom of the nanowire sidewalls the MQW is thinner and the innermost wells barriers are thicker than the outermost wells barriers. The innermost well barrier is 2.5 nm 5.5 nm thick while the outermost well barrier is 1.8 nm 3 nm thick. This change in MQW thickness at the bottom of the nanowire is due to reduced transport of gas phase reactants to the bottom most parts of the nanowires as the opening between nanowires is pinched off at the top with increased nanowire diameters. EDS analysis reveals the indium incorporation in the InGaN quantum wells is also different on the sidewall and apex facets with x 0.33 5 appearing on the m planes compared to x 0.22 5 on the 10 11 planes with the measurement locations marked with x s in . The difference in indium composition on the two different planes has also been observed in planar material. See H. Yamada et al. 1 041101 2008 . The m plane nanowire facets shown here have a higher indium composition when compared to the same InGaN growth conditions performed on planar c plane GaN. This allows for higher InGaN growth temperatures at a given indium composition compared to c plane which should result in better InGaN material quality by avoiding defect formation that can occur at lower growth temperatures. See D. D. Koleske et al. 242 55 2001 and X. U. Wu 72 692 1998 . The last important structural characteristic shown in the STEMs is the p InGaN layer extends down along the nanowire sidewalls allowing for the capture of current generated in the m plane MQWs. This structure can be used to provide a nanowire solar cell or a nanowire based light emitting diode.

The present invention has been described as a method of fabricating vertically aligned Group III V micro and nanowires. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

