---

title: Methods for fabricating isolated micro- or nano-structures using soft or imprint lithography
abstract: The presently disclosed subject matter describes the use of fluorinated elastomer-based materials, in particular perfluoropolyether (PFPE)-based materials, in high-resolution soft or imprint lithographic applications, such as micro- and nanoscale replica molding, and the first nano-contact molding of organic materials to generate high fidelity features using an elastomeric mold. Accordingly, the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method for producing free-standing, isolated nanostructures of any shape using soft or imprint lithography technique.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08992992&OS=08992992&RS=08992992
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08992992
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130328
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 825 469 filed on Jul. 6 2007 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 583 570 filed on Mar. 5 2007 which is a 371 application of PCT International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US04 042706 filed on Dec. 20 2004 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 531 531 filed Dec. 19 2003 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 583 170 filed Jun. 25 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 604 970 filed Aug. 27 2004 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support from the Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 02 1 0185 and the Science and Technology Center program of the National Science Foundation under Agreement No. CHE 9876674. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

Methods for preparing micro and or nanoscale particles using soft or imprint lithography. A method for delivering a therapeutic agent to a target. Methods for forming a micro or nano scale pattern on a substrate using soft or imprint lithography.

The availability of viable nanofabrication processes is a key factor to realizing the potential of nanotechnologies. In particular the availability of viable nanofabrication processes is important to the fields of photonics electronics and proteomics. Traditional imprint lithographic IL techniques are an alternative to photolithography for manufacturing integrated circuits micro and nano fluidic devices and other devices with micrometer and or nanometer sized features. There is a need in the art however for new materials to advance IL techniques. See Xia Y. et al. 1998 37 550 575 Xia Y. et al. 1999 99 1823 1848 Resnick D. J. et al. 2002 June 71 78 Choi K. M. et al. 2003 125 4060 4061 McClelland G. M. et al. 2002 81 1483 Chou S. Y. et al. 1996 14 4129 Otto M. et al. 2001 57 361 and Bailey T. et al. . B 2000 18 3571.

Imprint lithography comprises at least two areas 1 soft lithographic techniques see Xia Y. et al. 1998 37 550 575 such as solvent assisted micro molding SAMIM micro molding in capillaries MIMIC and microcontact printing MCP and 2 rigid imprint lithographic techniques such as nano contact molding NCM see McClelland G. M. et al. 2002 81 1483 Otto M. et al. 2001 57 361 step and flash imprint lithographic S FIL see Bailey T. et al. . B 2000 18 3571 and nanoimprint lithography NIL see Chou S. Y. et al. 1996 14 4129.

Polydimethylsiloxane PDMS based networks have been the material of choice for much of the work in soft lithography. See Quake S. R. et al. 2000 290 1536 Y. N. Xia and G. M. Whitesides 1998 37 551 and Y. N. Xia et al. 1999 99 1823.

The use of soft elastomeric materials such as PDMS offers several advantages for lithographic techniques. For example PDMS is highly transparent to ultraviolet UV radiation and has a very low Young s modulus approximately 750 kPa which gives it the flexibility required for conformal contact even over surface irregularities without the potential for cracking. In contrast cracking can occur with molds made from brittle high modulus materials such as etched silicon and glass. See Bietsch A. et al. 2000 88 4310 4318. Further flexibility in a mold facilitates the easy release of the mold from masters and replicates without cracking and allows the mold to endure multiple imprinting steps without damaging fragile features. Additionally many soft elastomeric materials are gas permeable a property that can be used to advantage in soft lithography applications.

Although PDMS offers some advantages in soft lithography applications several properties inherent to PDMS severely limit its capabilities in soft lithography. First PDMS based elastomers swell when exposed to most organic soluble compounds. See Lee J. N. et al. 2003 75 6544 6554. Although this property is beneficial in microcontact printing MCP applications because it allows the mold to adsorb organic inks see Xia Y. et al. 1998 37 550 575 swelling resistance is critically important in the majority of other soft lithographic techniques especially for SAMIM and MIMIC and for IL techniques in which a mold is brought into contact with a small amount of curable organic monomer or resin. Otherwise the fidelity of the features on the mold is lost and an unsolvable adhesion problem ensues due to infiltration of the curable liquid into the mold. Such problems commonly occur with PDMS based molds because most organic liquids swell PDMS. Organic materials however are the materials most desirable to mold. Additionally acidic or basic aqueous solutions react with PDMS causing breakage of the polymer chain.

Secondly the surface energy of PDMS approximately 25 mN m is not low enough for soft lithography procedures that require high fidelity. For this reason the patterned surface of PDMS based molds is often fluorinated using a plasma treatment followed by vapor deposition of a fluoroalkyl trichlorosilane. See Xia Y. et al. 1998 37 550 575. These fluorine treated silicones swell however when exposed to organic solvents.

Third the most commonly used commercially available form of the material used in PDMS molds e.g. Sylgard 184 Dow Corning Corporation Midland Mich. United States of America has a modulus that is too low approximately 1.5 MPa for many applications. The low modulus of these commonly used PDMS materials results in sagging and bending of features and as such is not well suited for processes that require precise pattern placement and alignment. Although researchers have attempted to address this last problem see Odom T. W. et al. 2002 124 12112 12113 Odom T. W. et al. 2002 18 5314 5320 Schmid H. et al. 2000 33 3042 3049 Csucs G. et al. 2003 19 6104 6109 Trimbach D. et al. 2003 19 10957 10961 the materials chosen still exhibit poor solvent resistance and require fluorination steps to allow for the release of the mold.

Rigid materials such as quartz glass and silicon also have been used in imprint lithography. See Xia Y. et al. 1998 37 550 575 Resnick D. J. et al. 2002 June 71 78 McClelland G. M. et al. 2002 81 1483 Chou S. Y. et al. 1996 14 4129 Otto M. et al. 2001 57 361 and Bailey T. et al. . B 2000 18 3571 Chou S. Y. et al. 1996 272 85 87 Von Werne T. A. et al. 2003 125 3831 3838 Resnick D. J. et al. 2003 21 2624 2631. These materials are superior to PDMS in modulus and swelling resistance but lack flexibility. Such lack of flexibility inhibits conformal contact with the substrate and causes defects in the mask and or replicate during separation.

Another drawback of rigid materials is the necessity to use a costly and difficult to fabricate hard mold which is typically made by using conventional photolithography or electron beam e beam lithography. See Chou S. Y. et al. 1996 14 4129. More recently the need to repeatedly use expensive quartz glass or silicon molds in NCM processes has been eliminated by using an acrylate based mold generated from casting a photopolymerizable monomer mixture against a silicon master. See McClelland G. M. et al. 2002 81 1483 and Jung G. Y. et al. 2004 ASAP. This approach also can be limited by swelling of the mold in organic solvents.

Despite such advances other disadvantages of fabricating molds from rigid materials include the necessity to use fluorination steps to lower the surface energy of the mold see Resnick D. J. et al. 2002 June 71 78 and the inherent problem of releasing a rigid mold from a rigid substrate without breaking or damaging the mold or the substrate. See Resnick D. J. et al. 2002 June 71 78 Bietsch A. 2000 88 4310 4318. Khang D. Y. et al. 2004 20 2445 2448 have reported the use of rigid molds composed of thermoformed Teflon AF DuPont Wilmington Del. United States of America to address the surface energy problem. Fabrication of these molds however requires high temperatures and pressures in a melt press a process that could be damaging to the delicate features on a silicon wafer master. Additionally these molds still exhibit the intrinsic drawbacks of other rigid materials as outlined hereinabove.

Further a clear and important limitation of fabricating structures on semiconductor devices using molds or templates made from hard materials is the usual formation of a residual or scum layer that forms when a rigid template is brought into contact with a substrate. Even with elevated applied forces it is very difficult to completely displace liquids during this process due to the wetting behavior of the liquid being molded which results in the formation of a scum layer. Thus there is a need in the art for a method of fabricating a pattern or a structure on a substrate such as a semiconductor device which does not result in the formation of a scum layer.

The fabrication of solvent resistant microfluidic devices with features on the order of hundreds of microns from photocurable perfluoropolyether PFPE has been reported. See Rolland J. P. et al. 2004 126 2322 2323. PFPE based materials are liquids at room temperature and can be photochemically cross linked to yield tough durable elastomers. Further PFPE based materials are highly fluorinated and resist swelling by organic solvents such as methylene chloride tetrahydrofuran toluene hexanes and acetonitrile among others which are desirable for use in microchemistry platforms based on elastomeric microfluidic devices. There is a need in the art however to apply PFPE based materials to the fabrication of nanoscale devices for related reasons.

Further there is a need in the art for improved methods for forming a pattern on a substrate such as method employing a patterned mask. See U.S. Pat. No. 4 735 890 to Nakane et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 147 763 to Kamitakahara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 259 926 to Kuwabara et al. and International PCT Publication No. WO 99 54786 to Jackson et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

There also is a need in the art for an improved method for forming isolated structures that can be considered engineered structures including but not limited to particles shapes and parts. Using traditional IL methods the scum layer that almost always forms between structures acts to connect or link structures together thereby making it difficult if not impossible to fabricate and or harvest isolated structures.

There also is a need in the art for an improved method for forming micro and nanoscale charged particles in particular polymer electrets. The term polymer electrets refers to dielectrics with stored charge either on the surface or in the bulk and dielectrics with oriented dipoles frozen in ferrielectric or ferroelectric. On the macro scale such materials are used for example for electronic packaging and charge electret devices such as microphones and the like. See Kressman R. et al. Vol. 2 Laplacian Press 1999 and Harrison J. S. et al. NASA CR 2001 211422 ICASE Report No. 2001 43. Poly vinylidene fluoride PVDF is one example of a polymer electret material. In addition to PVDF charge electret materials such as polypropylene PP Teflon fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP and polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE also are considered polymer electrets.

Further there is a need in the art for improved methods for delivering therapeutic agents such as drugs non viral gene vectors DNA RNA RNAi and viral particles to a target. See Shalaby S. W. ed. Harner Gardner Publications Inc. Cincinnati Ohio 1994 Polymeric Biomaterials Dumitrin S. ed. Marcel Dekkar Inc. New York N.Y. 1994 Park K. et al. Technomic Publishing Company Inc. Lancaster Pa. 1993 Gumargalieva et al. Nova Science Publishers Inc. Commack N.Y. 1998 American Chemical Society Symposium Series 752 Park K. and Mrsny R. J. eds. Washington D.C. 2000 Lu D. R. and Oie S. eds. Humana Press Totowa N.J. 2004 and Roche E. B. ed. Pergamon Press New York N.Y. 1987. For a description of representative therapeutic agents for use in such delivery methods see U.S. Pat. No. 6 159 443 to Hallahan which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In sum there exists a need in the art to identify new materials for use in imprint lithographic techniques. More particularly there is a need in the art for methods for the fabrication of structures at the tens of micron level down to sub 100 nm feature sizes.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method for forming one or more particles the method comprising 

In some embodiments of the method for forming one or more particles the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a perfluoropolyether material a fluoroolefin material an acrylate material a silicone material a styrenic material a fluorinated thermoplastic elastomer TPE a triazine fluoropolymer a perfluorocyclobutyl material a fluorinated epoxy resin and a fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter comprises a method for delivering a therapeutic agent to a target the method comprising 

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method for forming a pattern on a substrate the method comprising 

In some embodiments of the method for forming a pattern on a substrate the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a perfluoropolyether material a fluoroolefin material an acrylate material a silicone material a styrenic material a fluorinated thermoplastic elastomer TPE a triazine fluoropolymer a perfluorocyclobutyl material a fluorinated epoxy resin and a fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a novel method of making micro nano and sub nanostructures. This and other objects are achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove other aspects and objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying Drawings and Examples as best described herein below.

The presently disclosed subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying Examples in which representative embodiments are shown. The presently disclosed subject matter can however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this presently described subject matter belongs. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Throughout the specification and claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all optical and stereoisomers as well as racemic mixtures where such isomers and mixtures exist.

The presently disclosed subject matter broadly describes solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric materials derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template for use in high resolution soft or imprint lithographic applications such as micro and nanoscale replica molding. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomer based material such as but not limited to a fluorinated elastomer based material.

Further the presently disclosed subject matter describes the first nano contact molding of organic materials to generate high fidelity features using an elastomeric mold. Accordingly the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method for producing free standing isolated micro and nanostructures of any shape using soft or imprint lithography techniques. Representative micro and nanostructures include but are not limited to micro and nanoparticles and micro and nano patterned substrates.

The nanostructures described by the presently disclosed subject matter can be used in several applications including but not limited to semiconductor manufacturing such as molding etch barriers without scum layers for the fabrication of semiconductor devices crystals materials for displays photovoltaics a solar cell device optoelectronic devices routers gratings radio frequency identification RFID devices catalysts fillers and additives detoxifying agents etch barriers atomic force microscope AFM tips parts for nano machines the delivery of a therapeutic agent such as a drug or genetic material cosmetics chemical mechanical planarization CMP particles and porous particles and shapes of any kind that will enable the nanotechnology industry.

Representative solvent resistant elastomer based materials include but are not limited to fluorinated elastomer based materials. As used herein the term solvent resistant refers to a material such as an elastomeric material that neither swells nor dissolves in common hydrocarbon based organic solvents or acidic or basic aqueous solutions. Representative fluorinated elastomer based materials include but are not limited to perfluoropolyether PFPE based materials. A photocurable liquid PFPE exhibits desirable properties for soft lithography. A representative scheme for the synthesis and photocuring of functional PFPEs is provided in Scheme 1.

Additional schemes for the synthesis of functional perfluoropolyethers are provided in Examples 7.1 through 7.6.

This PFPE material has a low surface energy for example about 12 mN m is non toxic UV transparent and highly gas permeable and cures into a tough durable highly fluorinated elastomer with excellent release properties and resistance to swelling. The properties of these materials can be tuned over a wide range through the judicious choice of additives fillers reactive co monomers and functionalization agents. Such properties that are desirable to modify include but are not limited to modulus tear strength surface energy permeability functionality mode of cure solubility and swelling characteristics and the like. The non swelling nature and easy release properties of the presently disclosed PFPE materials allows for nanostructures to be fabricated from any material. Further the presently disclosed subject matter can be expanded to large scale rollers or conveyor belt technology or rapid stamping that allow for the fabrication of nanostructures on an industrial scale.

In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a perfluoropolyether material a fluoroolefin material an acrylate material a silicone material a styrenic material a fluorinated thermoplastic elastomer TPE a triazine fluoropolymer a perfluorocyclobutyl material a fluorinated epoxy resin and a fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction.

In some embodiments the perfluoropolyether material comprises a backbone structure selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the fluoroolefin material is made from monomers which comprise tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride hexafluoropropylene 2 2 bis trifluoromethyl 4 5 difluoro 1 3 dioxole a functional fluoroolefin functional acrylic monomer and a functional methacrylic monomer.

In some embodiments the silicone material comprises a fluoroalkyl functionalized polydimethylsiloxane PDMS having the following structure 

In some embodiments the styrenic material comprises a fluorinated styrene monomer selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the acrylate material comprises a fluorinated acrylate or a fluorinated methacrylate having the following structure 

In some embodiments the triazine fluoropolymer comprises a fluorinated monomer. In some embodiments the fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction comprises a functionalized olefin. In some embodiments the functionalized olefin comprises a functionalized cyclic olefin.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 18 mN m. In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 15 mN m.

From a property point of view the exact properties of these molding materials can be adjusted by adjusting the composition of the ingredients used to make the materials. In particular the modulus can be adjusted from low approximately 1 MPa to multiple GPa.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for making isolated micro and or nanoparticles. In some embodiments the process comprises initially forming a patterned substrate. Turning now to a patterned master is provided. Patterned master comprises a plurality of non recessed surface areas and a plurality of recesses . In some embodiments patterned master comprises an etched substrate such as a silicon wafer which is etched in the desired pattern to form patterned master .

Referring now to a liquid material for example a liquid fluoropolymer composition such as a PFPE based precursor is then poured onto patterned master . Liquid material is treated by treating process T for example exposure to UV light thereby forming a treated liquid material in the desired pattern.

Referring now to a force Fis applied to treated liquid material to remove it from patterned master . As shown in treated liquid material comprises a plurality of recesses which are mirror images of the plurality of non recessed surface areas of patterned master . Continuing with treated liquid material comprises a plurality of first patterned surface areas which are mirror images of the plurality of recesses of patterned master . Treated liquid material can now be used as a patterned template for soft lithography and imprint lithography applications. Accordingly treated liquid material can be used as a patterned template for the formation of isolated micro and nanoparticles. For the purposes of A E and A F the numbering scheme for like structures is retained throughout.

Referring now to in some embodiments a substrate for example a silicon wafer is treated or is coated with a non wetting material . In some embodiments non wetting material comprises an elastomer such a solvent resistant elastomer including but not limited to a PFPE elastomer that can be further exposed to UV light and cured to form a thin non wetting layer on the surface of substrate . Substrate also can be made non wetting by treating substrate with non wetting agent for example a small molecule such as an alkyl or fluoroalkyl silane or other surface treatment. Continuing with a droplet of a curable resin a monomer or a solution in which the desired particles will be formed is then placed on the coated substrate .

Referring now to and patterned template as shown in is then contacted with droplet so that droplet fills the plurality of recessed areas of patterned template .

Referring now to a force Fis applied to patterned template . While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory once force Fis applied the affinity of patterned template for non wetting coating or surface treatment on substrate in combination with the non wetting behavior of patterned template and surface treated or coated substrate causes droplet to be excluded from all areas except for recessed areas . Further in embodiments essentially free of non wetting or low wetting material with which to sandwich droplet a scum layer that interconnects the objects being stamped forms.

Continuing with the material filling recessed areas e.g. a resin monomer solvent and combinations thereof is then treated by a treating process T e.g. photocured through patterned template or thermally cured while under pressure to form a plurality of micro and or nanoparticles . In some embodiments a material including but not limited to a polymer an organic compound or an inorganic compound can be dissolved in a solvent patterned using patterned template and the solvent can be released.

Continuing with once the material filling recessed areas is treated patterned template is removed from substrate . Micro and or nanoparticles are confined to recessed areas of patterned template . In some embodiments micro and or nanoparticles can be retained on substrate in defined regions once patterned template is removed. This embodiment can be used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices where essentially scum layer free features could be used as etch barriers or as conductive semiconductive or dielectric layers directly mitigating or reducing the need to use traditional and expensive photolithographic processes.

Referring now to micro and or nanoparticles can be removed from patterned template to provide freestanding particles by a variety of methods which include but are not limited to 1 applying patterned template to a surface that has an affinity for the particles 2 deforming patterned template or using other mechanical methods including sonication in such a manner that the particles are naturally released from patterned template 3 swelling patterned template reversibly with supercritical carbon dioxide or another solvent that will extrude the particles and 4 washing patterned template with a solvent that has an affinity for the particles and will wash them out of patterned template .

In some embodiments the method comprises a batch process. In some embodiments the batch process is selected from one of a semi batch process and a continuous batch process. Referring now to an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter wherein particles are produced in a continuous process is schematically presented. An apparatus is provided for carrying out the process. Indeed while schematically presents a continuous process for particles apparatus can be adapted for batch processes and for providing a pattern on a substrate continuously or in batch in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter and based on a review of the presently disclosed subject matter by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Continuing then with droplet of liquid material is applied to substrate via reservoir . Substrate can be coated or not coated with a non wetting agent. Substrate and pattern template are placed in a spaced relationship with respect to each other and are also operably disposed with respect to each other to provide for the conveyance of droplet between patterned template and substrate . Conveyance is facilitated through the provision of pulleys which are in operative communication with controller . By way of representative non limiting examples controller can comprise a computing system appropriate software a power source a radiation source and or other suitable devices for controlling the functions of apparatus . Thus controller provides for power for and other control of the operation of pulleys to provide for the conveyance of droplet between patterned template and substrate . Particles are formed and treated between substrate and patterned template by a treating process T which is also controlled by controller . Particles are collected in an inspecting device which is also controlled by controller . Inspecting device provides for one of inspecting measuring and both inspecting and measuring one or more characteristics of particles . Representative examples of inspecting devices are disclosed elsewhere herein.

In some embodiments of the method for forming one or more particles the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a perfluoropolyether material a fluoroolefin material an acrylate material a silicone material a styrenic material a fluorinated thermoplastic elastomer TPE a triazine fluoropolymer a perfluorocyclobutyl material a fluorinated epoxy resin and a fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction.

In some embodiments the perfluoropolyether material comprises a backbone structure selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the fluoroolefin material is made from monomers which comprise tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride hexafluoropropylene 2 2 bis trifluoromethyl 4 5 difluoro 1 3 dioxole a functional fluoroolefin functional acrylic monomer and a functional methacrylic monomer.

In some embodiments the silicone material comprises a fluoroalkyl functionalized polydimethylsiloxane PDMS having the following structure 

In some embodiments the styrenic material comprises a fluorinated styrene monomer selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the acrylate material comprises a fluorinated acrylate or a fluorinated methacrylate having the following structure 

In some embodiments the triazine fluoropolymer comprises a fluorinated monomer. In some embodiments the fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction comprises a functionalized olefin. In some embodiments the functionalized olefin comprises a functionalized cyclic olefin.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 18 mN m. In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 15 mN m.

In some embodiments the substrate is selected from the group consisting of a polymer material an inorganic material a silicon material a quartz material a glass material and surface treated variants thereof. In some embodiments the substrate comprises a patterned area.

In some embodiments the plurality of recessed areas comprises a plurality of cavities. In some embodiments the plurality of cavities comprises a plurality of structural features. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 10 microns to about 1 nanometer in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 10 microns to about 1 micron in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 1 micron to about 100 nm in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 100 nm to about 1 nm in size.

In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a patterned template formed by a replica molding process. In some embodiments the replica molding process comprises providing a master template contacting a liquid material with the master template and curing the liquid material to form a patterned template.

In some embodiments the master template is selected from the group consisting of a template formed from a lithography process a naturally occurring template and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the natural template is selected from one of a biological structure and a self assembled structure. In some embodiments the one of a biological structure and a self assembled structure is selected from the group consisting of a naturally occurring crystal an enzyme a virus a protein a micelle and a tissue surface.

In some embodiments the method comprises modifying the patterned template surface by a surface modification step. In some embodiments the surface modification step is selected from the group consisting of a plasma treatment a chemical treatment and an adsorption process. In some embodiments the adsorption process comprises adsorbing molecules selected from the group consisting of a polyelectrolyte a poly vinylalcohol an alkylhalosilane and a ligand.

In some embodiments the method comprises positioning the patterned template and the substrate in a spaced relationship to each other such that the patterned template surface and the substrate face each other in a predetermined alignment.

In some embodiments the liquid material is selected from the group consisting of a polymer a solution a monomer a plurality of monomers a polymerization initiator a polymerization catalyst an inorganic precursor a metal precursor a pharmaceutical agent a tag a magnetic material a paramagnetic material a ligand a cell penetrating peptide a porogen a surfactant a plurality of immiscible liquids a solvent a charged species and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent is selected from the group consisting of a drug a peptide RNAi and DNA. In some embodiments the tag is selected from the group consisting of a fluorescence tag a radiolabeled tag and a contrast agent. In some embodiments the ligand comprises a cell targeting peptide.

In some embodiments the liquid material comprises a non wetting agent. In some embodiments the liquid material comprises one phase. In some embodiments the liquid material comprises a plurality of phases. In some embodiments the liquid material is selected from the group consisting of multiple liquids multiple immiscible liquids surfactants dispersions emulsions micro emulsions micelles particulates colloids porogens active ingredients and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the disposing of the volume of liquid material on one of the patterned template and the substrate is regulated by a spreading process. In some embodiments the spreading process comprises 

In some embodiments an article is contacted with the layer of liquid material and a force is applied to the article to thereby remove the liquid material from the one of the patterned material and the substrate. In some embodiments the article is selected from the group consisting of a roller and a squeegee blade. In some embodiments the liquid material is removed by some other mechanical means.

In some embodiments the contacting of the patterned template surface with the substrate forces essentially all of the disposed liquid material from between the patterned template surface and the substrate.

In some embodiments the treating of the liquid material comprises a process selected from the group consisting of a thermal process a photochemical process and a chemical process.

In some embodiments the method comprises harvesting or collecting the particles. In some embodiments the harvesting or collecting of the particles comprises a process selected from the group consisting of scraping with a doctor blade a brushing process a dissolution process an ultrasound process a megasonics process an electrostatic process and a magnetic process.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a particle or plurality of particles formed by the methods described herein. In some embodiments the plurality of particles comprises a plurality of monodisperse particles. In some embodiments the particle or plurality of particles is selected from the group consisting of a semiconductor device a crystal a drug delivery vector a gene delivery vector a disease detecting device a disease locating device a photovoltaic device a porogen a cosmetic an electret an additive a catalyst a sensor a detoxifying agent an abrasive such as a CMP a micro electro mechanical system MEMS a cellular scaffold a taggant a pharmaceutical agent and a biomarker. In some embodiments the particle or plurality of particles comprise a freestanding structure.

Further in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method of fabricating isolated liquid objects the method comprising a contacting a liquid material with the surface of a first low surface energy material b contacting the surface of a second low surface energy material with the liquid wherein at least one of the surfaces of either the first or second low surface energy material is patterned c sealing the surfaces of the first and the second low surface energy materials together and d separating the two low surface energy materials to produce a replica pattern comprising liquid droplets.

In some embodiments the liquid material comprises poly ethylene glycol diacrylate. In some embodiments the low surface energy material comprises perfluoropolyether diacrylate. In some embodiments a chemical process is used to seal the surfaces of the first and the second low surface energy materials. In some embodiments a physical process is used to seal the surfaces of the first and the second low surface energy materials. In some embodiments one of the surfaces of the low surface energy material is patterned. In some embodiments one of the surfaces of the low surface energy material is not patterned.

In some embodiments the method further comprises using the replica pattern composed of liquid droplets to fabricate other objects. In some embodiments the replica pattern of liquid droplets is formed on the surface of the low surface energy material that is not patterned. In some embodiments the liquid droplets undergo direct or partial solidification. In some embodiments the liquid droplets undergo a chemical transformation. In some embodiments the solidification of the liquid droplets or the chemical transformation of the liquid droplets produce freestanding objects. In some embodiments the freestanding objects are harvested. In some embodiments the freestanding objects are bonded in place. In some embodiments the freestanding objects are directly solidified partially solidified or chemically transformed.

In some embodiments the liquid droplets are directly solidified partially solidified or chemically transformed on or in the patterned template to produce objects embedded in the recesses of the patterned template. In some embodiments the embedded objects are harvested. In some embodiments the embedded objects are bonded in place. In some embodiments the embedded objects are used in other fabrication processes.

In some embodiments the replica pattern of liquid droplets is transferred to other surfaces. In some embodiments the transfer takes place before the solidification or chemical transformation process. In some embodiments the transfer takes place after the solidification or chemical transformation process. In some embodiments the surface to which the replica pattern of liquid droplets is transferred is selected from the group consisting of a non low surface energy surface a low surface energy surface a functionalized surface and a sacrificial surface. In some embodiments the method produces a pattern on a surface that is essentially free of one or more scum layers. In some embodiments the method is used to fabricate semiconductors and other electronic and photonic devices or arrays. In some embodiments the method is used to create freestanding objects. In some embodiments the method is used to create three dimensional objects using multiple patterning steps. In some embodiments the isolated or patterned object comprises materials selected from the group consisting of organic inorganic polymeric and biological materials. In some embodiments a surface adhesive agent is used to anchor the isolated structures on a surface.

In some embodiments the liquid droplet arrays or solid arrays on patterned or non patterned surfaces are used as regiospecific delivery devices or reaction vessels for additional chemical processing steps. In some embodiments the additional chemical processing steps are selected from the group consisting of printing of organic inorganic polymeric biological and catalytic systems onto surfaces synthesis of organic inorganic polymeric biological materials and other applications in which localized delivery of materials to surfaces is desired. Applications of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to micro and nanoscale patterning or printing of materials. In some embodiments the materials to be patterned or printed are selected from the group consisting of surface binding molecules inorganic compounds organic compounds polymers biological molecules nanoparticles viruses biological arrays and the like.

In some embodiments the applications of the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to the synthesis of polymer brushes catalyst patterning for CVD carbon nanotube growth cell scaffold fabrication the application of patterned sacrificial layers such as etch resists and the combinatorial fabrication of organic inorganic polymeric and biological arrays.

In some embodiments non wetting imprint lithography and related techniques are combined with methods to control the location and orientation of chemical components within an individual object. In some embodiments such methods improve the performance of an object by rationally structuring the object so that it is optimized for a particular application. In some embodiments the method comprises incorporating biological targeting agents into particles for drug delivery vaccination and other applications. In some embodiments the method comprises designing the particles to include a specific biological recognition motif. In some embodiments the biological recognition motif comprises biotin avidin and or other proteins.

In some embodiments the method comprises tailoring the chemical composition of these materials and controlling the reaction conditions whereby it is then possible to organize the biorecognition motifs so that the efficacy of the particle is optimized. In some embodiments the particles are designed and synthesized so that recognition elements are located on the surface of the particle in such a way to be accessible to cellular binding sites wherein the core of the particle is preserved to contain bioactive agents such as therapeutic molecules. In some embodiments a non wetting imprint lithography method is used to fabricate the objects wherein the objects are optimized for a particular application by incorporating functional motifs such as biorecognition agents into the object composition. In some embodiments the method further comprises controlling the microscale and nanoscale structure of the object by using methods selected from the group consisting of self assembly stepwise fabrication procedures reaction conditions chemical composition crosslinking branching hydrogen bonding ionic interactions covalent interactions and the like. In some embodiments the method further comprises controlling the microscale and nanoscale structure of the object by incorporating chemically organized precursors into the object. In some embodiments the chemically organized precursors are selected from the group consisting of block copolymers and core shell structures.

In sum the presently disclosed subject matter describes a non wetting imprint lithography technique that is scalable and offers a simple direct route to such particles without the use of self assembled difficult to fabricate block copolymers and other systems.

Referring now to the presently disclosed subject matter provides a liquid reduction process for forming particles that have shapes that are not conformal to the shape of the template including but not limited to spherical micro and nanoparticles. For example a cube shaped template can allow for sphereical particles to be made whereas a Block arrow shaped template can allow for lolli pop shaped particles or objects to be made wherein the introduction of a gas allows surface tension forces to reshape the resident liquid prior to treating it. While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory the non wetting characteristics that can be provided in some embodiments of the presently disclosed patterned template and or treated or coated substrate allows for the generation of rounded e.g. spherical particles.

Referring now to droplet of a liquid material is disposed on substrate which in some embodiments is coated or treated with a non wetting material . A patterned template which comprises a plurality of recessed areas and patterned surface areas also is provided.

Referring now to patterned template is contacted with droplet . The liquid material comprising droplet then enters recessed areas of patterned template . In some embodiments a residual or scum layer RL of the liquid material comprising droplet remains between the patterned template and substrate .

Referring now to a first force Fis applied to patterned template . A contact point CP is formed between the patterned template and the substrate and displacing residual layer RL. Particles are formed in the recessed areas of patterned template .

Referring now to a second force F wherein the force applied by Fis greater than the force applied by F is then applied to patterned template thereby forming smaller liquid particles inside recessed areas and forcing a portion of the liquid material comprising droplet out of recessed areas .

Referring now to the second force Fis released thereby returning the contact pressure to the original contact pressure applied by first force F. In some embodiments patterned template comprises a gas permeable material which allows a portion of space with recessed areas to be filled with a gas such as nitrogen thereby forming a plurality of liquid spherical droplets . Once this liquid reduction is achieved the plurality of liquid spherical droplets are treated by a treating process T.

Referring now to treated liquid spherical droplets are released from patterned template to provide a plurality of freestanding spherical particles .

Referring now to in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method for preparing polymeric nano to micro electrets by applying an electric field during the polymerization and or crystallization step during molding to yield a charged polymeric particle . In some embodiments the charged polymeric particles spontaneously aggregate into chain like structures instead of the random configurations shown in .

In some embodiments the charged polymeric particle comprises a polymeric electret. In some embodiments the polymeric electret comprises a polymeric nano electret. In some embodiments the charged polymeric particles aggregate into chain like structures. In some embodiments the charged polymeric particles comprise an additive for an electro rheological device. In some embodiments the electro rheological device is selected from the group consisting of clutches and active dampening devices. In some embodiments the charged polymeric particles comprise nano piezoelectric devices. In some embodiments the nano piezoelectric devices are selected from the group consisting of actuators switches and mechanical sensors.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for forming multilayer structures including multilayer particles. In some embodiments the multilayer structures including multilayer particles comprise nanoscale multilayer structures. In some embodiments multilayer structures are formed by depositing multiple thin layers of immisible liquids and or solutions onto a substrate and forming particles as described by any of the methods hereinabove. The immiscibility of the liquid can be based on any physical characteristic including but not limited to density polarity and volatility. Examples of possible morphologies of the presently disclosed subject matter are illustrated in and include but are not limited to multi phase sandwich structures core shell particles and internal emulsions microemulsions and or nano sized emulsions.

Referring now to a multi phase sandwich structure of the presently disclosed subject matter is shown which by way of example comprises a first liquid material and a second liquid material .

Referring now to a core shell particle of the presently disclosed subject matter is shown which by way of example comprises a first liquid material and a second liquid material .

Referring now to an internal emulsion particle of the presently disclosed subject matter is shown which by way of example comprises a first liquid material and a second liquid material .

More particularly in some embodiments the method comprises disposing a plurality of immiscible liquids between the patterned template and substrate to form a multilayer structure e.g. a multilayer nanostructure. In some embodiments the multilayer structure comprises a multilayer particle. In some embodiments the multilayer structure comprises a structure selected from the group consisting of multi phase sandwich structures core shell particles internal emulsions microemulsions and nanosized emulsions.

In some embodiments the currently disclosed subject matter provides a process for fabricating complex multi dimensional structures. In some embodiments complex multi dimensional structures can be formed by performing the steps illustrated in . In some embodiments the method comprises imprinting onto a patterned template that is aligned with a second patterned template instead of imprinting onto a smooth substrate to generate isolated multi dimensional structures that are cured and released as described herein. A schematic illustration of an embodiment of a process for forming complex multi dimensional structures and examples of such structures are provided in .

Referring now to a first patterned template is provided. First patterned template comprises a plurality of recessed areas and a plurality of non recessed surfaces . Also provided is a second patterned template . Second patterned template comprises a plurality of recessed areas and a plurality of non recessed surfaces . As shown in first patterned template and second patterned template are aligned in a predetermined spaced relationship. A droplet of liquid material is disposed between first patterned template and second patterned template .

Referring now to patterned template is contacted with patterned template . A force Fis applied to patterned template causing the liquid material comprising droplet to migrate to the plurality of recessed areas and . The liquid material comprising droplet is then treated by treating process Tto form a patterned treated liquid material .

Referring now to the patterned treated liquid material of is released by any of the releasing methods described herein to provide a plurality of multi dimensional patterned structures .

In some embodiments patterned structure comprises a nanoscale patterned structure. In some embodiments patterned structure comprises a multi dimensional structure. In some embodiments the multi dimensional structure comprises a nanoscale multi dimensional structure. In some embodiments the multi dimensional structure comprises a plurality of structural features. In some embodiments the structural features comprise a plurality of heights.

In some embodiments a microelectronic device comprising patterned structure is provided. Indeed patterned structure can be any structure imaginable including dual damscene structures for microelectronics. In some embodiments the microelectronic device is selected from the group consisting of integrated circuits semiconductor particles quantum dots and dual damascene structures. In some embodiments the microelectronic device exhibits certain physical properties selected from the group consisting of etch resistance low dielectric constant high dielectric constant conducting semiconducting insulating porosity and non porosity.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter discloses a method of preparing a multidimensional complex structure. Referring now to in some embodiments a first patterned template is provided. First patterned template comprises a plurality of non recessed surface areas and a plurality of recessed surface areas . Continuing particularly with also provided is a substrate . In some embodiments substrate is coated with a non wetting agent . A droplet of a first liquid material is disposed on substrate .

Referring now to first patterned template is contacted with substrate . A force Fis applied to first patterned template such that the droplet of the first liquid material is forced into recesses . The liquid material comprising the droplet of first liquid material is treated by a first treating process Tto form a treated first liquid material within the plurality of recesses . In some embodiments first treating process Tcomprises a partial curing process causing the treated first liquid material to adhere to substrate . Referring particularly to first patterned template is removed to provide a plurality of structural features on substrate .

Referring now to a second patterned template is provided. Second patterned substrate comprises a plurality of recesses which are filled with a second liquid material . The filling of recesses can be accomplished in a manner similar to that described in with respect to recesses . Referring particularly to second patterned template is contacted with structural features . Second liquid material is treated with a second treating process Tsuch that the second liquid material adheres to the plurality of structural feature thereby forming a multidimensional structure . Referring particularly to second patterned template and substrate are removed providing a plurality of free standing multidimensional structures . In some embodiments the process schematically presented in can be carried out multiple times as desired to form intricate nanostructures.

Accordingly in some embodiments a method for forming multidimensional structures is provided the method comprising 

Referring now to a method for forming a pattern on a substrate is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated in an imprint lithography technique is used to form a pattern on a substrate.

Referring now to a patterned template is provided. In some embodiments patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template as defined hereinabove. Patterned template further comprises a first patterned template surface and a second template surface . The first patterned template surface further comprises a plurality of recesses . The patterned template derived from a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material could be mounted on another material to facilitate alignment of the patterned template or to facilitate continuous processing such as a conveyor belt. This might be particularly useful in the fabrication of precisely placed structures on a surface such as in the fabrication of a complex devices or a semiconductor electronic or photonic devices.

Referring again to a substrate is provided. Substrate comprises a substrate surface . In some embodiments substrate is selected from the group consisting of a polymer material an inorganic material a silicon material a quartz material a glass material and surface treated variants thereof. In some embodiments at least one of patterned template and substrate has a surface energy lower than 18 mN m. In some embodiments at least one of patterned template and substrate has a surface energy lower than 15 mN m.

In some embodiments as illustrated in patterned template and substrate are positioned in a spaced relationship to each other such that first patterned template surface faces substrate surface and a gap is created between first patterned template surface and substrate surface . This is an example of a predetermined relationship.

Referring now to a volume of liquid material is disposed in the gap between first patterned template surface and substrate surface . In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is disposed directed on a non wetting agent not shown which is disposed on first patterned template surface .

Referring now to in some embodiments first patterned template is contacted with the volume of liquid material . A force Fis applied to second template surface thereby forcing the volume of liquid material into the plurality of recesses . In some embodiments as illustrated in a portion of the volume of liquid material remains between first patterned template surface and substrate surface after force Fis applied.

Referring again to in some embodiments the volume of liquid material is treated by a treating process Twhile force Fis being applied to form a treated liquid material . In some embodiments treating process Tcomprises a process selected from the group consisting of a thermal process a photochemical process and a chemical process.

Referring now to a force Fis applied to patterned template to remove patterned template from treated liquid material to reveal a pattern on substrate as shown in . In some embodiments a residual or scum layer of treated liquid material remains on substrate .

In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the patterned template comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a perfluoropolyether material a fluoroolefin material an acrylate material a silicone material a styrenic material a fluorinated thermoplastic elastomer TPE a triazine fluoropolymer a perfluorocyclobutyl material a fluorinated epoxy resin and a fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction.

In some embodiments the perfluoropolyether material comprises a backbone structure selected from the qroup consisting of 

In some embodiments the fluoroolefin material is made from monomers which comprise tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride hexafluoropropylene 2 2 bis trifluoromethyl 4 5 difluoro 1 3 dioxole a functional fluoroolefin functional acrylic monomer and a functional methacrylic monomer.

In some embodiments the silicone material comprises a fluoroalkyl functionalized polydimethylsiloxane PDMS having the following structure 

In some embodiments the styrenic material comprises a fluorinated styrene monomer selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments the acrylate material comprises a fluorinated acrylate or a fluorinated methacrylate having the following structure 

In some embodiments the fluorinated monomer or fluorinated oligomer that can be polymerized or crosslinked by a metathesis polymerization reaction comprises a functionalized olefin. In some embodiments the functionalized olefin comprises a functionalized cyclic olefin.

In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 18 mN m. In some embodiments at least one of the patterned template and the substrate has a surface energy lower than 15 mN m.

In some embodiments the substrate is selected from the group consisting of a polymer material an inorganic material a silicon material a quartz material a glass material and surface treated variants thereof. In some embodiments the substrate is selected from one of an electronic device in the process of being manufactured and a photonic device in the process of being manufactured. In some embodiments the substrate comprises a patterned area.

In some embodiments the plurality of recessed areas comprises a plurality of cavities. In some embodiments the plurality of cavities comprise a plurality of structural features. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 10 microns to about 1 nanometer in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 10 microns to about 1 micron in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 1 micron to about 100 nm in size. In some embodiments the plurality of structural features has a dimension ranging from about 100 nm to about 1 nm in size.

In some embodiments the liquid material is selected from the group consisting of a polymer a solution a monomer a plurality of monomers a polymerization initiator a polymerization catalyst an inorganic precursor a metal precursor a pharmaceutical agent a tag a magnetic material a paramagnetic material a superparamagnetic material a ligand a cell penetrating peptide a porogen a surfactant a plurality of immiscible liquids a solvent and a charged species. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent is selected from the group consisting of a drug a peptide RNAi and DNA. In some embodiments the tag is selected from the group consisting of a fluorescence tag a radiolabeled tag and a contrast agent. In some embodiments the ligand comprises a cell targeting peptide.

Represesentative superparamagnetic or paramagnetic materials include but are not limited to FeO FeO FePt Co MnFeO CoFeO CuFeO NiFeOand ZnS doped with Mn for magneto optical applications CdSe for optical applications and borates for boron neutron capture treatment.

In some embodiments the liquid material is selected from one of a resist polymer and a low k dielectric. In some embodiments the liquid material comprises a non wetting agent.

In some embodiments the disposing of the volume of liquid material is regulated by a spreading process. In some embodiments the spreading process comprises 

In some embodiments the treating of the liquid material comprises a process selected from the group consisting of a thermal process a photochemical process and a chemical process.

In some embodiments the method comprises a batch process. In some embodiments the batch process is selected from one of a semi batch process and a continuous batch process.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a patterned substrate formed by the presently disclosed methods.

A characteristic of imprint lithography that has restrained its full potential is the formation of a scum layer once the liquid material e.g. a resin is patterned. The scum layer comprises residual liquid material that remains between the stamp and the substrate. In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a process for generating patterns essentially free of a scum layer.

Referring now to in some embodiments a method for forming a pattern on a substrate is provided wherein the pattern is essentially free of a scum layer. Referring now to a patterned template is provided. Patterned template further comprises a first patterned template surface and a second template surface . The first patterned template surface further comprises a plurality of recesses . In some embodiments a non wetting agent is disposed on the first patterned template surface .

Referring again to a substrate is provided. Substrate comprises a substrate surface . In some embodiments a non wetting agent is disposed on substrate surface .

In some embodiments as illustrated in patterned template and substrate are positioned in a spaced relationship to each other such that first patterned template surface faces substrate surface and a gap is created between first patterned template surface and substrate surface .

Referring now to a volume of liquid material is disposed in the gap between first patterned template surface and substrate surface . In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is disposed directly on first patterned template surface . In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is disposed directly on non wetting agent which is disposed on first patterned template surface . In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is disposed directly on substrate surface . In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is disposed directly on non wetting agent which is disposed on substrate surface .

Referring now to in some embodiments first patterned template surface is contacted with the volume of liquid material . A force Fis applied to second template surface thereby forcing the volume of liquid material into the plurality of recesses . In contrast with the embodiment illustrated in a portion of the volume of liquid material is forced out of gap by force Fwhen force Fis applied.

Referring again to in some embodiments the volume of liquid material is treated by a treating process Twhile force Fis being applied to form a treated liquid material .

Referring now to a force Fis applied to patterned template to remove patterned template from treated liquid material to reveal a pattern on substrate as shown in . In this embodiment substrate is essentially free of a residual or scum layer of treated liquid material .

In some embodiments at least one of the template surface and substrate comprises a functionalized surface element. In some embodiments the functionalized surface element is functionalized with a non wetting material. In some embodiments the non wetting material comprises functional groups that bind to the liquid material. In some embodiments the non wetting material is selected from the group consisting of a trichloro silane a trialkoxy silane a trichloro silane comprising non wetting and reactive functional groups a trialkoxy silane comprising non wetting and reactive functional groups and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments the point of contact between the two surface elements is free of liquid material. In some embodiments the point of contact between the two surface elements comprises residual liquid material. In some embodiments the height of the residual liquid material is less than 30 of the height of the structure. In some embodiments the height of the residual liquid material is less than 20 of the height of the structure. In some embodiments the height of the residual liquid material is less than 10 of the height of the structure. In some embodiments the height of the residual liquid material is less than 5 of the height of the structure. In some embodiments the volume of liquid material is less than the volume of the patterned template. In some embodiments substantially all of the volume of liquid material is confined to the patterned template of at least one of the surface elements. In some embodiments having the point of contact between the two surface elements free of liquid material retards slippage between the two surface elements.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a solvent assisted micro molding SAMIM method for forming a pattern on a substrate.

Referring now to a patterned template is provided. Patterned template further comprises a first patterned template surface and a second template surface . The first patterned template surface further comprises a plurality of recesses .

Referring again to a substrate is provided. Substrate comprises a substrate surface . In some embodiments a polymeric material is disposed on substrate surface . In some embodiments polymeric material comprises a resist polymer.

Referring again to patterned template and substrate are positioned in a spaced relationship to each other such that first patterned template surface faces substrate surface and a gap is created between first patterned template surface and substrate surface . As shown in a solvent S is disposed within gap such that solvent S contacts polymeric material forming a swollen polymeric material .

Referring now to first patterned template surface is contacted with swollen polymeric material . A force Fis applied to second template surface thereby forcing a portion of swollen polymeric material into the plurality of recesses and leaving a portion of swollen polymeric material between first patterned template surface and substrate surface . The swollen polymeric material is then treated by a treating process Twhile under pressure.

Referring now to a force Fis applied to patterned template to remove patterned template from treated swollen polymeric material to reveal a polymeric pattern on substrate as shown in .

In some embodiments the patterned structure e.g. a patterned micro or nanostructure is removed from at least one of the patterned template and or the substrate. This can be accomplished by a number of approaches including but not limited to applying the surface element containing the patterned structure to a surface that has an affinity for the patterned structure deforming the surface element containing the patterned structure such that the patterned structure is released from the surface element swelling the surface element containing the patterned structure with a first solvent to extrude the patterned structure and washing the surface element containing the patterned structure with a second solvent that has an affinity for the patterned structure.

In some embodiments the first solvent comprises supercritical fluid carbon dioxide. In some embodiments the first solvent comprises water. In some embodiments the first solvent comprises an aqueous solution comprising water and a detergent. In embodiments the deforming the surface element is performed by applying a mechanical force to the surface element. In some embodiments the method of removing the patterned structure further comprises a sonication method.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes methods and processes and products by processes for fabricating molecules for use in drug discovery and drug therapies. In some embodiments the method or process for fabricating a molecule comprises a combinatorial method or process. In some embodiments the method for fabricating molecules comprises a non wetting imprint lithography method.

In some embodiments the non wetting imprint lithography method further comprises a surface derived from or comprising a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material derived from casting low viscosity liquid materials onto a master template and then curing the low viscosity liquid materials to generate a patterned template. In some embodiments the surface comprises a solvent resistant elastomeric material.

In some embodiments the non wetting imprint lithography method is used to generate isolated structures. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise isolated micro structures. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise isolated nano structures. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise a biodegradable material. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise a hydrophilic material. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise a hydrophobic material. In some embodiments the isolated structures comprise a particular shape. In some embodiments the isolated structures further comprise cargo. 

In some embodiments the non wetting imprint lithography method further comprises adding molecular modules fragments or domains to the solution to be molded. In some embodiments the molecular modules fragments or domains impart functionality to the isolated structures. In some embodiments the functionality imparted to the isolated structure comprises a therapeutic functionality.

In some embodiments a therapeutic agent such as a drug is incorporated into the isolated structure. In some embodiments the physiologically active drug is tethered to a linker to facilitate its incorporation into the isolated structure. In some embodiments the domain of an enzyme or a catalyst is added to the isolated structure. In some embodiments a ligand or an oligopeptide is added to the isolated structure. In some embodiments the oligopeptide is functional. In some embodiments the functional oligopeptide comprises a cell targeting peptide. In some embodiments the functional oligopeptide comprises a cell penetrating peptide. In some embodiments an antibody or functional fragment thereof is added to the isolated structure.

In some embodiments a binder is added to the isolated structure. In some embodiments the isolated structure comprising the binder is used to fabricate identical structures. In some embodiments the isolated structure comprising the binder is used to fabricate structures of a varying structure. In some embodiments the structures of a varying structure are used to explore the efficacy of a molecule as a therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the shape of the isolated structure mimics a biological agent. In some embodiments the method further comprises a method for drug discovery.

In some embodiments a method of delivering a therapeutic agent to a target is disclosed the method comprising providing a particle produced as described herein admixing the therapeutic agent with the particle and delivering the particle comprising the therapeutic agent to the target.

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent comprises a drug. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent comprises genetic material. In some embodiments the genetic material is selected from the group consisting of a non viral gene vector DNA RNA RNAi and a viral particle.

In some embodiments the particle has a diameter of less than 100 microns. In some embodiments the particle has a diameter of less than 10 microns. In some embodiments the particle has a diameter of less than 1 micron. In some embodiments the particle has a diameter of less than 100 nm. In some embodiments the particle has a diameter of less than 10 nm.

In some embodiments the particle comprises a biodegradable polymer. In some embodiments the biodegradable polymer is selected from the group consisting of a polyester a polyanhydride a polyamide a phosphorous based polymer a poly cyanoacrylate a polyurethane a polyorthoester a polydihydropyran and a polyacetal. In some embodiments the polyester is selected from the group consisting of polylactic acid polyglycolic acid poly hydroxybutyrate poly caprolactone poly malic acid and poly dioxanones . In some embodiments the polyanhydride is selected from the group consisting of poly sebacic acid poly adipic acid and poly terpthalic acid . In some embodiments the polyamide is selected from the group consisting of poly imino carbonates and polyaminoacids. In some embodiments the phosphorous based polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyphosphates polyphosphonates and polyphosphazenes. In some embodiments the polymer is responsive to stimuli such as pH radiation ionic strength temperature and alternating magnetic or electric fields.

Responses to such stimuli can include swelling and or heating which can facilitate release of its cargo or degradation.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes magneto containing particles for applications in hyperthermia therapy cancer and gene therapy drug delivery magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents vaccine adjuvants memory devices and spintronics.

Without being bound to any one particular theory the magneto containing particles e.g. a magnetic nanoparticle produce heat by the process of hyperthermia between 41 and 46 C. or thermo ablation greater than 46 C. i.e. the controlled heating of the nanoparticles upon exposure to an AC magnetic field. The heat is used to i induce a phase change in the polymer component for example melt and release an encapsulated material and or ii hyperthermia treatment of specific cells and or iii increase the effectiveness of the encapsulated material. The triggering mechanism of the magnetic nanoparticles via electromagnetic heating enhance the iv degradation rate of the particulate v can induce swelling and or vi induce dissolution phase change that can lead to a greater surface area which can be beneficial when treating a variety of diseases.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes an alternative therapeutic agent delivery method which utilizes non wetting imprint lithography to fabricate monodisperse magnetic nanoparticles for use in a drug delivery system. Such particles can be used for 1 hyperthermia treatment of cancer cells 2 MRI contrast agents 3 guided delivery of the particle and 4 triggered degradation of the drug delivery vector.

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent delivery system comprises a biocompatible material and a magnetic nanoparticle. In some embodiments the biocompatible material has a melting point below 100 C. In some embodiments the biocompatible material is selected from the group consisting of but not limited to a polylactide a polyglycolide a hydroxypropylcellulose and a wax.

In some embodiments once the magnetic nanoparticle is delivered to the target or is in close proximity to the target the magnetic nanoparticle is exposed to an AC magnetic field. The exposure to the AC magnetic field causes the magnetic nanoparticle to undergo a controlled heating. Without being bound to any one particular theory the controlled heating is a result of a thermo ablation process. In some embodiments the heat is used to induce a phase change in the polymer component of the nanoparticle. In some embodiments the phase change comprises a melting process. In some embodiments the phase change results in the release of an encapsulated material. In some embodiments the release of an encapsulated material comprises a controlled release. In some embodiments the controlled release of the encapsulated material results in a concentrated dosing of the therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the heating results in the hyperthermic treatment of the target e.g. specific cells. In some embodiments the heating results in an increase in the effectiveness of the encapsulated material. In some embodiments the triggering mechanism of the magnetic nanoparticles induced by the electromagnetic heating enhances the degradation rate of the particle and can induce swelling and or a dissolution phase change that can lead to a greater surface area which can be beneficial when treating a variety of diseases.

In some embodiments additional components including drugs such as an anticancer agent e.g. nitrogen mustard cisplatin and doxorubicin targeting ligands such as cell targeting peptides cell penetrating peptides integrin receptor peptide GRGDSP melanocyte stimulating hormone vasoactive intestional peptide anti Her2 mouse antibodies and a variety of vitamins viruses polysaccharides cyclodextrins proteins liposomes optical nanoparticles such as CdSe for optical applications and borate nanoparticles to aid in boron neutron capture therapy BNCT targets.

The presently described magnetic containing materials also lend themselves to other applications. The magneto particles can be assembled into well defined arrays driven by their shape functionalization of the surface and or exposure to a magnetic field for investigations of and not limited to magnetic assay devices memory devices spintronic applications and separations of solutions.

Thus the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for delivering a therapeutic agent to a target the method comprising 

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is selected from one of a drug and genetic material. In some embodiments the genetic material is selected from the group consisting of a non viral gene vector DNA RNA RNAi and a viral particle.

In some embodiments the particle comprises a biodegradable polymer. In some embodiments the biodegradable polymer is selected from the group consisting of a polyester a polyanhydride a polyamide a phosphorous based polymer a poly cyanoacrylate a polyurethane a polyorthoester a polydihydropyran and a polyacetal.

In some embodiments the polyester is selected from the group consisting of polylactic acid polyglycolic acid poly hydroxybutyrate poly caprolactone poly malic acid and poly dioxanones .

In some embodiments the polyanhydride is selected from the group consisting of poly sebacic acid poly adipic acid and poly terpthalic acid .

In some embodiments the polyamide is selected from the group consisting of poly imino carbonates and polyaminoacids.

In some embodiments the phosphorous based polymer is selected from the group consisting of a polyphosphate a polyphosphonate and a polyphosphazene.

In some embodiments the biodegradable polymer further comprises a polymer that is responsive to a stimulus. In some embodiments the stimulus is selected from the group consisting of pH radiation ionic strength temperature an alternating magnetic field and an alternating electric field. In some embodiments the stimulus comprises an alternating magnetic field.

In some embodiments the method comprises exposing the particle to an alternating magnetic field once the particle is delivered to the target. In some embodiments the exposing of the particle to an alternating magnetic field causes the particle to produce heat through one of a hypothermia process and a thermo ablation process.

In some embodiments the heat produced by the particle induces one of a phase change in the polymer component of the particle and a hyperthermic treatment of the target. In some embodiments the phase change in the polymer component of the particle comprises a change from a solid phase to a liquid phase. In some embodiments the phase change from a solid phase to a liquid phase causes the therapeutic agent to be released from the particle. In some embodiments the release of the therapeutic agent from the particle comprises a controlled release.

In some embodiments the target is selected from the group consisting of a cell targeting peptide a cell penetrating peptide an integrin receptor peptide GRGDSP a melanocyte stimulating hormone a vasoactive intestional peptide an anti Her2 mouse antibody and a vitamin.

With respect to the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter any animal subject can be treated. The term subject as used herein refers to any vertebrate species. The methods of the presently claimed subject matter are particularly useful in the diagnosis of warm blooded vertebrates. Thus the presently claimed subject matter concerns mammals. In some embodiments provided is the diagnosis and or treatment of mammals such as humans as well as those mammals of importance due to being endangered such as Siberian tigers of economical importance animals raised on farms for consumption by humans and or social importance animals kept as pets or in zoos to humans for instance carnivores other than humans such as cats and dogs swine pigs hogs and wild boars ruminants such as cattle oxen sheep giraffes deer goats bison and camels and horses. Also provided is the diagnosis and or treatment of livestock including but not limited to domesticated swine pigs and hogs ruminants horses poultry and the like.

The following references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Published International PCT Application No. WO2004081666 to DeSimone et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 528 080 to Dunn et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 592 579 to Arndt et al. Published International PCT Application No. WO0066192 to Jordan Hilger I. et al. 570 575 2001 Mornet S. et al. 2161 2175 2004 Berry C. C. et al. 36 R198 R206 2003 Babincova M. et al. 55 17 19 2002 Wolf S. A. et al. 16 1488 1495 2001 and Sun S. et al. 287 1989 1992 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 159 443 to Hallahan and Published PCT Application No. WO 03 066066 to Hallahan et al.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes methods and processes and products by processes for generating surfaces and molds from natural structures single molecules or self assembled structures. Accordingly in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method of patterning a natural structure single molecule and or a self assembled structure. In some embodiments the method further comprises replicating the natural structure single molecule and or a self assembled structure. In some embodiments the method further comprises replicating the functionality of the natural structure single molecule and or a self assembled structure.

More particularly in some embodiments the method further comprises taking the impression or mold of a natural structure single molecule and or a self assembled structure. In some embodiments the impression or mold is taken with a low surface energy polymeric precursor. In some embodiments the low surface energy polymeric precursor comprises a perfluoropolyether PFPE functionally terminated diacrylate. In some embodiments the natural structure single molecule and or self assembled structure is selected from the group consisting of enzymes viruses antibodies micelles and tissue surfaces.

In some embodiments the impression or mold is used to replicate the features of the natural structure single molecule and or a self assembled structure into an isolated object or a surface. In some embodiments a non wetting imprint lithography method is used to impart the features into a molded part or surface. In some embodiments the molded part or surface produced by this process can be used in many applications including but not limited to drug delivery medical devices coatings catalysts or mimics of the natural structures from which they are derived. In some embodiments the natural structure comprises biological tissue. In some embodiments the biological tissue comprises tissue from a bodily organ such as a heart. In some embodiments the biological tissue comprises vessels and bone. In some embodiments the biological tissue comprises tendon or cartilage. For example in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter can be used to pattern surfaces for tendon and cartilage repair. Such repair typically requires the use of collagen tissue which comes from cadavers and must be machined for use as replacements. Most of these replacements fail because one cannot lay down the primary pattern that is required for replacement. The soft lithographic methods described herein alleviate this problem.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter can be applied to tissue regeneration using stem cells. Almost all stem cell approaches known in the art require molecular patterns for the cells to seed and then grow thereby taking the shape of an organ such as a liver a kidney or the like. In some embodiments the molecular scaffold is cast and used as crystals to seed an organ in a form of transplant therapy. In some embodiments the stem cell and nano substrate is seeded into a dying tissue e.g. liver tissue to promote growth and tissue regeneration. In some embodiments the material to be replicated in the mold comprises a material that is similar to or the same as the material that was originally molded. In some embodiments the material to be replicated in the mold comprises a material that is different from and or has different properties than the material that was originally molded. This approach could play an important role in addressing the organ transplant shortage.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter is used to take the impression of one of an enzyme a bacterium and a virus. In some embodiments the enzyme bacterium or virus is then replicated into a discrete object or onto a surface that has the shape reminiscent of that particular enzyme bacterium or virus replicated into it. In some embodiments the mold itself is replicated on a surface wherein the surface attached replicated mold acts as a receptor site for an enzyme bacterium or virus particle. In some embodiments the replicated mold is useful as a catalyst a diagnostic sensor a therapeutic agent a vaccine and the like. In some embodiments the surface attached replicated mold is used to facilitate the discovery of new therapeutic agents.

In some embodiments the macromolecular e.g. enzyme bacterial or viral molded mimics serve as non self replicating entities that have the same surface topography as the original macromolecule bacterium or virus. In some embodiments the molded mimics are used to create biological responses e.g. an allergic response to their presence thereby creating antibodies or activating receptors. In some embodiments the molded mimics function as a vaccine. In some embodiments the efficacy of the biologically active shape of the molded mimics is enhanced by a surface modification technique.

XIII. Method of Modifying the Surface of an Imprint Lithography Mold to Impart Surface Characteristics to Molded Products

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a method of modifying the surface of an imprint lithography mold. In some embodiments the method further comprises imparting surface characteristics to a molded product. In some embodiments the molded product comprises an isolated molded product. In some embodiments the isolate molded product is formed using a non wetting imprint lithography technique. In some embodiments the molded product comprises a contact lens a medical device and the like.

More particularly the surface of a solvent resistant low surface energy polymeric material or more particularly a PFPE mold is modified by a surface modification step wherein the surface modification step is selected from the group consisting of plasma treatment chemical treatment and the adsorption of molecules. In some embodiments the molecules adsorbed during the surface modification step are selected from the group consisting of polyelectrolytes poly vinylalcohol alkylhalosilanes and ligands. In some embodiments the structures particles or objects obtained from the surface treated molds can be modified by the surface treatments in the mold. In some embodiments the modification comprises the pre orientation of molecules or moieties with the molecules comprising the molded products. In some embodiments the pre orientation of the molecules or moieties imparts certain properties to the molded products including catalytic wettable adhesive non stick interactive or not interactive when the molded product is placed in another environment. In some embodiments such properties are used to facilitate interactions with biological tissue or to prevent interaction with biological tissues. Applications of the presently disclosed subject matter include sensors arrays medical implants medical diagnostics disease detection and separation media.

Also disclosed herein is a method for selectively exposing the surface of an article to an agent. In some embodiments the method comprises 

In some embodiments the elastomeric mask comprises a plurality of channels. In some embodiments each of the channels has a cross sectional dimension of less than about 1 millimeter. In some embodiments each of the channels has a cross sectional dimension of less than about 1 micron. In some embodiments each of the channels has a cross sectional dimension of less than about 100 nm. In some embodiments each of the channels has a cross sectional dimension of about 1 nm. In some embodiments the agent swells the elastomeric mask less than 25 .

In some embodiments the agent comprises an organic electroluminescent material or a precursor thereof. In some embodiments the method further comprising allowing the organic electroluminescent material to form from the agent at the second portion of the surface and establishing electrical communication between the organic electroluminescent material and an electrical circuit.

In some embodiments the agent comprises a liquid or is carried in a liquid. In some embodiments the agent comprises the product of chemical vapor deposition. In some embodiments the agent comprises a product of deposition from a gas phase. In some embodiments the agent comprises a product of e beam deposition evaporation or sputtering. In some embodiments the agent comprises a product of electrochemical deposition. In some embodiments the agent comprises a product of electroless deposition. In some embodiments the agent is applied from a fluid precursor. In some embodiments comprises a solution or suspension of an inorganic compound. In some embodiments the inorganic compound hardens on the second portion of the article surface.

In some embodiments the fluid precursor comprises a suspension of particles in a fluid carrier. In some embodiments the method further comprises allowing the fluid carrier to dissipate thereby depositing the particles at the first region of the article surface. In some embodiments the fluid precursor comprises a chemically active agent in a fluid carrier. In some embodiments the method further comprises allowing the fluid carrier to dissipate thereby depositing the chemically active agent at the first region of the article surface.

In some embodiments the chemically active agent comprises a polymer precursor. In some embodiments the method further comprises forming a polymeric article from the polymer precursor. In some embodiments the chemically active agent comprises an agent capable of promoting deposition of a material. In some embodiments the chemically active agent comprises an etchant. In some embodiments the method further comprises allowing the second portion of the surface of the article to be etched. In some embodiments the method further comprises removing the elastomeric mask of the masking system from the first portion of the article surface while leaving the agent adhered to the second portion of the article surface.

The presently disclosed subject matter also describes a method for forming an engineered membrane. In some embodiments a patterned non wetting template is formed by contacting a first liquid material such as a PFPE material with a patterned substrate and treating the first liquid material for example by curing through exposure to UV light to form a patterned non wetting template. The patterned substrate comprises a plurality of recesses or cavities configured in a specific shape such that the patterned non wetting template comprises a plurality of extruding features. The patterned non wetting template is contacted with a second liquid material for example a photocurable resin. A force is then applied to the patterned non wetting template to displace an excess amount of second liquid material or scum layer. The second liquid material is then treated for example by curing through exposure to UV light to form an interconnected structure comprising a plurality of shape and size specific holes. The interconnected structure is then removed from the non wetting template. In some embodiments the interconnected structure is used as a membrane for separations.

It will be important to inspect the objects structures particles described herein for accuracy of shape placement and utility. Such inspection can allow for corrective actions to be taken or for defects to be removed or mitigated. The range of approaches and monitoring devices useful for such inspections include air gages which use pneumatic pressure and flow to measure or sort dimensional attributes balancing machines and systems which dynamically measure and or correct machine or component balance biological microscopes which typically are used to study organisms and their vital processes bore and ID gages which are designed for internal diameter dimensional measurement or assessment boroscopes which are inspection tools with rigid or flexible optical tubes for interior inspection of holes bores cavities and the like calipers which typically use a precise slide movement for inside outside depth or step measurements some of which are used for comparing or transferring dimensions CMM probes which are transducers that convert physical measurements into electrical signals using various measuring systems within the probe structure color and appearance instruments which for example typically are used to measure the properties of paints and coatings including color gloss haze and transparency color sensors which register items by contrast true color or translucent index and are based on one of the color models most commonly the RGB model red green blue coordinate measuring machines which are mechanical systems designed to move a measuring probe to determine the coordinates of points on a work piece surface depth gages which are used to measure of the depth of holes cavities or other component features digital video microscopes which use digital technology to display the magnified image digital readouts which are specialized displays for position and dimension readings from inspection gages and linear scales or rotary encoders on machine tools dimensional gages and instruments which provide quantitative measurements of a product s or component s dimensional and form attributes such as wall thickness depth height length I.D. O.D. taper or bore dimensional and profile scanners which gather two dimensional or three dimensional information about an object and are available in a wide variety of configurations and technologies electron microscopes which use a focused beam of electrons instead of light to image the specimen and gain information as to its structure and composition fiberscopes which are inspection tools with flexible optical tubes for interior inspection of holes bores and cavities fixed gages which are designed to access a specific attribute based on comparative gaging and include Angle Gages Ball Gages Center Gages Drill Size Gages Feeler Gages Fillet Gages Gear Tooth Gages Gage or Shim Stock Pipe Gages Radius Gages Screw or Thread Pitch Gages Taper Gages Tube Gages U.S. Standard Gages Sheet Plate Weld Gages and Wire Gages specialty form gages which are used to inspect parameters such as roundness angularity squareness straightness flatness runout taper and concentricity gage blocks which are manufactured to precise gagemaker tolerance grades for calibrating checking and setting fixed and comparative gages height gages which are used for measuring the height of components or product features indicators and comparators which measure where the linear movement of a precision spindle or probe is amplified inspection and gaging accessories such as layout and marking tolls including hand tools supplies and accessories for dimensional measurement marking layout or other machine shop applications such as scribes transfer punches dividers and layout fluid interferometers which are used to measure distance in terms of wavelength and to determine wavelengths of particular light sources laser micrometers which measure extremely small distances using laser technology levels which are mechanical or electronic tools that measure the inclination of a surface relative to the earth s surface machine alignment equipment which is used to align rotating or moving parts and machine components magnifiers which are inspection instruments that are used to magnify a product or part detail via a lens system master and setting gages which provide dimensional standards for calibrating other gages measuring microscopes which are used by toolmakers for measuring the properties of tools and often are used for dimensional measurement with lower magnifying powers to allow for brighter sharper images combined with a wide field of view metallurgical microscopes which are used for metallurgical inspection micrometers which are instruments for precision dimensional gaging consisting of a ground spindle and anvil mounted in a C shaped steel frame. Noncontact laser micrometers are also available microscopes all types which are instruments that are capable of producing a magnified image of a small object optical light microscopes which use the visible or near visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum optical comparators which are instruments that project a magnified image or profile of a part onto a screen for comparison to a standard overlay profile or scale plug pin gages which are used for a go no go assessment of hole and slot dimensions or locations compared to specified tolerances protractors and angle gages which measure the angle between two surfaces of a part or assembly ring gages which are used for go no go assessment compared to the specified dimensional tolerances or attributes of pins shafts or threaded studs rules and scales which are flat graduated scales used for length measurement and which for OEM applications digital or electronic linear scales are often used snap gages which are used in production settings where specific diametrical or thickness measurements must be repeated frequently with precision and accuracy specialty microscopes which are used for specialized applications including metallurgy gemology or use specialized techniques like acoustics or microwaves to perform their function squares which are used to indicate if two surfaces of a part or assembly are perpendicular styli probes and cantilevers which are slender rod shaped stems and contact tips or points used to probe surfaces in conjunction with profilometers SPMs CMMs gages and dimensional scanners surface profilometers which measure surface profiles roughness waviness and other finish parameters by scanning a mechanical stylus across the sample or through noncontact methods thread gages which are dimensional instruments for measuring thread size pitch or other parameters and videoscopes which are inspection tools that capture images from inside holes bores or cavities.

The following Examples have been included to provide guidance to one of ordinary skill in the art for practicing representative embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill can appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some embodiments the synthesis and curing of PFPE materials of the presently disclosed subject matter is performed by using the method described by Rolland J. P. et al. 2004 126 2322 2323. Briefly this method involves the methacrylate functionalization of a commercially available PFPE diol M 3800 g mol with isocyanatoethyl methacrylate. Subsequent photocuring of the material is accomplished through blending with 1 wt of 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone and exposure to UV radiation 365 nm .

More particularly in a typical preparation of perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate P FP E DMA poly tetrafluoroethylene oxide co difluoromethylene oxide diol ZDOL average Mca. 3 800 g mol 95 Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. United States of America 5.7227 g 1.5 mmol was added to a dry 50 mL round bottom flask and purged with argon for 15 minutes. 2 isocyanatoethyl methacrylate EIM 99 Aldrich 0.43 mL 3.0 mmol was then added via syringe along with 1 1 2 trichlorotrifluoroethane Freon 113 99 Aldrich 2 mL and dibutyltin diacetate DBTDA 99 Aldrich 50 L . The solution was immersed in an oil bath and allowed to stir at 50 C. for 24 h. The solution was then passed through a chromatographic column alumina Freon 113 2 5 cm . Evaporation of the solvent yielded a clear colorless viscous oil which was further purified by passage through a 0.22 m polyethersulfone filter.

In a representative curing procedure for PFPE DMA 1 wt of 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone DMPA 99 Aldrich 0.05 g 2.0 mmol was added to PFPE DMA 5 g 1.2 mmol along with 2 mL Freon 113 until a clear solution was formed. After removal of the solvent the cloudy viscous oil was passed through a 0.22 m polyethersulfone filter to remove any DMPA that did not disperse into the PFPE DMA. The filtered PFPE DMA was then irradiated with a UV source Electro Lite Corporation Danbury Conn. United States of America UV curing chamber model no. 81432 ELC 500 365 nm while under a nitrogen purge for 10 min. This resulted in a clear slightly yellow rubbery material.

In some embodiments a PFPE DMA device such as a stamp was fabricated according to the method described by Rolland J. P. et al. 2004 126 2322 2323. Briefly the PFPE DMA containing a photoinitiator such as DMPA was spin coated 800 rpm to a thickness of 20 m onto a Si wafer containing the desired photoresist pattern. This coated wafer was then placed into the UV curing chamber and irradiated for 6 seconds. Separately a thick layer about 5 mm of the material was produced by pouring the PFPE DMA containing photoinitiator into a mold surrounding the Si wafer containing the desired photoresist pattern. This wafer was irradiated with UV light for one minute. Following this the thick layer was removed. The thick layer was then placed on top of the thin layer such that the patterns in the two layers were precisely aligned and then the entire device was irradiated for 10 minutes. Once complete the entire device was peeled from the Si wafer with both layers adhered together.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes See . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of PEG diacrylate is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 500 nm conical shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of PEG diacrylate is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 3 m arrow shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of PEG diacrylate is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm 750 nm 250 nm rectangular shapes. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of PEG diacrylate is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 500 nm conical shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see . Further shows a scanning electron micrograph of 500 nm isolated conical particles of TMPTA which have been printed using an embodiment of the presently described non wetting imprint lithography method and harvested mechanically using a doctor blade. The ability to harvest particles in such a way offers conclusive evidence for the absence of a scum layer. 

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 3 m arrow shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately one gram of 3S cis 3 6 dimethyl 1 4 dioxane 2 5 dione LA is heated above its melting temperature 92 C. to 110 C. and approximately 20 L of stannous octoate catalyst initiator is added to the liquid monomer. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of molten LA containing catalyst is then placed on the treated silicon wafer preheated to 110 C. and the patterned PFPE mold is placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess monomer. The entire apparatus is then placed in an oven at 110 C. for 15 hours. Particles are observed after cooling to room temperature and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see . Further is a scanning electron micrograph of 200 nm isolated trapezoidal particles of poly lactic acid PLA which have been printed using an embodiment of the presently described non wetting imprint lithography method and harvested mechanically using a doctor blade. The ability to harvest particles in such a way offers conclusive evidence for the absence of a scum layer. 

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 3 m arrow shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately one gram of 3S cis 3 6 dimethyl 1 4 dioxane 2 5 dione LA is heated above its melting temperature 92 C. to 110 C. and 20 L of stannous octoate catalyst initiator is added to the liquid monomer. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of molten LA containing catalyst is then placed on the treated silicon wafer preheated to 110 C. and the patterned PFPE mold is placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess monomer. The entire apparatus is then placed in an oven at 110 C. for 15 hours. Particles are observed after cooling to room temperature and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 500 nm conical shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately one gram of 3S cis 3 6 dimethyl 1 4 dioxane 2 5 dione LA is heated above its melting temperature 92 C. to 110 C. and 20 L of stannous octoate catalyst initiator is added to the liquid monomer. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of molten LA containing catalyst is then placed on the treated silicon wafer preheated to 110 C. and the patterned PFPE mold is placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess monomer. The entire apparatus is then placed in an oven at 110 C. for 15 hours. Particles are observed after cooling to room temperature and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Separately 50 L of a 1 1 v v solution of tetrahydrofuran pyrrole is added to 50 L of 70 perchloric acid aq . A clear homogenous brown solution quickly forms and develops into black solid polypyrrole in 15 minutes. A drop of this clear brown solution prior to complete polymerization is placed onto a treated silicon wafer and into a stamping apparatus and a pressure is applied to remove excess solution. The apparatus is then placed into a vacuum oven for 15 h to remove the THF and water. Particles are observed using scanning electron microscopy SEM see after release of the vacuum and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 3 m arrow shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Separately 50 L of a 1 1 v v solution of tetrahydrofuran pyrrole is added to 50 L of 70 perchloric acid aq . A clear homogenous brown solution quickly forms and develops into black solid polypyrrole in 15 minutes. A drop of this clear brown solution prior to complete polymerization is placed onto a treated silicon wafer and into a stamping apparatus and a pressure is applied to remove excess solution. The apparatus is then placed into a vacuum oven for 15 h to remove the THF and water. Particles are observed using scanning electron microscopy SEM see after release of the vacuum and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 500 nm conical shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Separately 50 L of a 1 1 v v solution of tetrahydrofuran pyrrole is added to 50 L of 70 perchloric acid aq . A clear homogenous brown solution quickly forms and develops into black solid polypyrrole in 15 minutes. A drop of this clear brown solution prior to complete polymerization is placed onto a treated silicon wafer and into a stamping apparatus and a pressure is applied to remove excess solution. The apparatus is then placed into a vacuum oven for 15 h to remove the THF and water. Particles are observed using scanning electron microscopy SEM see FIG. after release of the vacuum and separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. 20 L of water and 20 L of PEG diacrylate monomer are added to 8 nanomoles of 24 bp DNA oligonucleotide that has been tagged with a fluorescent dye CY 3. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the PEG diacrylate solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using confocal fluorescence microscopy see . Further shows a fluorescent confocal micrograph of 200 nm trapezoidal PEG nanoparticles which contain 24 mer DNA strands that are tagged with CY 3. is optical micrograph of the 200 nm isolated trapezoidal particles of PEG diacrylate that contain fluorescently tagged DNA. is the overlay of the images provided in showing that every particle contains DNA.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 500 nm conical shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Separately citrate capped magnetite nanoparticles were synthesized by reaction of ferric chloride 40 mL of a 1 M aqueous solution and ferrous chloride 10 mL of a 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid solution which is added to ammonia 500 mL of a 0.7 M aqueous solution . The resulting precipitate is collected by centrifugation and then stirred in 2 M perchloric acid. The final solids are collected by centrifugation. 0.290 g of these perchlorate stabilized nanoparticles are suspended in 50 mL of water and heated to 90 C. while stirring. Next 0.106 g of sodium citrate is added. The solution is stirred at 90 C. for 30 min to yield an aqueous solution of citrate stabilized iron oxide nanoparticles. 50 L of this solution is added to 50 L of a PEG diacrylate solution in a microtube. This microtube is vortexed for ten seconds. Following this 50 L of this PEG diacrylate particle solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate particle solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Nanoparticle containing PEG diacrylate particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using optical microscopy.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. A flat non wetting surface is generated by photocuring a film of PFPE DMA onto a glass slide according to the procedure outlined for generating a patterned PFPE DMA mold. 5 L of the PEG diacrylate photoinitiator solution is pressed between the PFPE DMA mold and the flat PFPE DMA surface and pressure is applied to squeeze out excess PEG diacrylate monomer. The PFPE DMA mold is then removed from the flat PFPE DMA surface and pressed against a clean glass microscope slide and photocured using UV radiation 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles are observed after cooling to room temperature and separation of the PFPE mold and the glass microscope slide using scanning electron microscopy SEM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Fluorescently labeled or unlabeled Adenovirus or Adeno Associated Virus suspensions are added to this PEG diacrylate monomer solution and mixed thoroughly. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the PEG diacrylate virus solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Virus containing particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using transmission electron microscopy or in the case of fluorescently labeled viruses confocal fluorescence microscopy.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Fluorescently labeled or unlabeled protein solutions are added to this PEG diacrylate monomer solution and mixed thoroughly. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the PEG diacrylate virus solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Protein containing particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using traditional assay methods or in the case of fluorescently labeled proteins confocal fluorescence microscopy.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 1 g of Pluronic P123 is dissolved in 12 g of absolute ethanol. This solution was added to a solution of 2.7 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 3.88 mL titanium IV ethoxide. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 2 g of Pluronic P123 is dissolved in 30 g of water and 120 g of 2 M HCl is added while stirring at 35 C. To this solution add 8.50 g of TEOS with stirring at 35 C. for 20 h. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 1 g of Pluronic P123 and 0.51 g of EuCl.6HO are dissolved in 12 g of absolute ethanol. This solution is added to a solution of 2.7 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 3.88 mL titanium IV ethoxide. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Particles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 200 nm trapezoidal shapes see . A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Separately 0.5 g of sodium citrate and 2 mL of 0.04 M cadmium perchlorate are dissolved in 45 mL of water and the pH is adjusted to of the solution to 9 with 0.1 M NaOH. The solution is bubbled with nitrogen for 15 minutes. 2 mL of 1 M N N dimethylselenourea is added to the solution and heated in a microwave oven for 60 seconds. 50 L of this solution is added to 50 L of a PEG diacrylate solution in a microtube. This microtube is vortexed for ten seconds. 50 L of this PEG diacrylate CdSe particle solution is placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. PEG diacrylate particles with encapsulated CdSe nanoparticles are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using TEM or fluorescence microscopy.

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing adenovirus particles on a silicon wafer. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Synthetic virus replicates are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM or transmission electron microscopy TEM .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing earthworm hemoglobin protein on a silicon wafer. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Synthetic protein replicates are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM or transmission electron microscopy TEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 100 nm cubic shapes. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Other therapeutic agents i.e. small molecule drugs proteins polysaccharides DNA etc. tissue targeting agents cell penetrating peptides and ligands hormones antibodies etc. therapeutic release transfection agents other controlled release monomer formulations cationic lipids etc. and miscibility enhancing agents cosolvents charged monomers etc. are added to the polymer precursor solution in a combinatorial manner. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of the combinatorially generated particle precursor solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess solution. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The PFPE DMA mold is then separated from the treated wafer and particles are harvested and the therapeutic efficacy of each combinatorially generated nanoparticle is established. By repeating this methodology with different particle formulations many combinations of therapeutic agents tissue targeting agents release agents and other important compounds can be rapidly screened to determine the optimal combination for a desired therapeutic application.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 3 m cylindrical holes that are 5 m deep. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately a poly ethylene glycol PEG diacrylate n 9 is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution with trichloro 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl silane via vapor deposition in a desiccator for 20 minutes. Following this 50 L of PEG diacrylate is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. An interconnected membrane is observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM . The membrane is released from the surface by soaking in water and allowing it to lift off the surface.

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and treating the wafer with an adhesion promoter trimethoxysilyl propyl methacryalte . Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to ensure a conformal contact. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Features are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using atomic force microscopy AFM see .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately polystyrene is dissolved in 1 to 99 wt of toluene. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and treating the wafer with an adhesion promoter. Following this 50 L of polystyrene solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold is placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to ensure a conformal contact. The entire apparatus is then subjected to vacuum for a period of time to remove the solvent. Features are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using atomic force microscopy AFM and scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. A flat non wetting surface is generated by photocuring a film of PFPE DMA onto a glass slide according to the procedure outlined for generating a patterned PFPE DMA mold. 50 L of the TMPTA photoinitiator solution is pressed between the PFPE DMA mold and the flat PFPE DMA surface and pressure is applied to squeeze out excess TMPTA monomer. The PFPE DMA mold is then removed from the flat PFPE DMA surface and pressed against a clean flat silicon silicon oxide wafer and photocured using UV radiation 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Isolated poly TMPTA features are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the silicon silicon oxide wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 1 g of Pluronic P123 is dissolved in 12 g of absolute ethanol. This solution was added to a solution of 2.7 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 3.88 mL titanium IV ethoxide. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon silicon oxide wafer with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and drying. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Oxide structures are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 2 g of Pluronic P123 is dissolved in 30 g of water and 120 g of 2 M HCl is added while stirring at 35 C. To this solution add 8.50 g of TEOS with stirring at 35 C. for 20 h. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon silicon oxide wafer with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and drying. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Oxide structures are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately 1 g of Pluronic P123 and 0.51 g of EuCl.6HO are dissolved in 12 g of absolute ethanol. This solution was added to a solution of 2.7 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 3.88 mL titanium IV ethoxide. Flat uniform surfaces are generated by treating a silicon silicon oxide wafer with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and drying. Following this 50 L of the sol gel solution is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to push out excess sol gel precursor. The entire apparatus is then set aside until the sol gel precursor has solidified. Oxide structures are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A patterned perfluoropolyether PFPE mold is generated by pouring a PFPE dimethacrylate PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over a silicon substrate patterned with 140 nm lines separated by 70 nm. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the silicon master. Separately TMPTA is blended with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. Flat uniform non wetting surfaces capable of adhering to the resist material are generated by treating a silicon wafer cleaned with piranha solution 1 1 concentrated sulfuric acid 30 hydrogen peroxide aq solution and treating the wafer with a mixture of an adhesion promoter trimethoxysilyl propyl methacryalte and a non wetting silane agent 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyl trimethoxysilane . The mixture can range from 100 of the adhesion promoter to 100 of the non wetting silane. Following this 50 L of TMPTA is then placed on the treated silicon wafer and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate is then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure is applied to ensure a conformal contact and to push out excess TMPTA. The entire apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Features are observed after separation of the PFPE mold and the treated silicon wafer using atomic force microscopy AFM and scanning electron microscopy SEM .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated using electron beam lithography by spin coating a bilayer resist of 200 000 MW PMMA and 900 000 MW PMMA onto a silicon wafer with 500 nm thermal oxide and exposing this resist layer to an electron beam that is translating in a pre programmed pattern. The resist is developed in 3 1 isopropanol methyl isobutyl ketone solution to remove exposed regions of the resist. A corresponding metal pattern is formed on the silicon oxide surface by evaporating 5 nm Cr and 15 nm Au onto the resist covered surface and lifting off the residual PMMA Cr Au film in refluxing acetone. This pattern is transferred to the underlying silicon oxide surface by reactive ion etching with CF Oplasma and removal of the Cr Au film in aqua regia. . This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. This mold can be used for the fabrication of particles using non wetting imprint lithography as specified in Particle Fabrication Examples 3.3 and 3.4.

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated using photolithography by spin coating a film of SU 8 photoresist onto a silicon wafer. This resist is baked on a hotplate at 95 C. and exposed through a pre patterned photomask. The wafer is baked again at 95 C. and developed using a commercial developer solution to remove unexposed SU 8 resist. The resulting patterned surface is fully cured at 175 C. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master and can be imaged by optical microscopy to reveal the patterned PFPE DMA mold see .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing tobacco mosaic virus TMV particles on a silicon wafer . This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing polystyrene polyisoprene block copolymer micelles on a freshly cleaved mica surface. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy see .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing poly butyl acrylate brush polymers on a freshly cleaved mica surface. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy .

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing earthworm hemoglobin proteins on a freshly cleaved mica surface. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy.

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing DNA nanostructures on a freshly cleaved mica surface. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy.

A template or master for perfluoropolyether dimethacrylate PFPE DMA mold fabrication is generated by dispersing or growing carbon nanotubes on a silicon oxide wafer. This master can be used to template a patterned mold by pouring PFPE DMA containing 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone over the patterned area of the master. A poly dimethylsiloxane mold is used to confine the liquid PFPE DMA to the desired area. The apparatus is then subjected to UV light 365 nm for 10 minutes while under a nitrogen purge. The fully cured PFPE DMA mold is then released from the master. The morphology of the mold can then be confirmed using Atomic Force Microscopy.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter describes a novel top down soft lithographic technique non wetting imprint lithography NoWIL which allows completely isolated nanostructures to be generated by taking advantage of the inherent low surface energy and swelling resistance of cured PFPE based materials.

The presently described subject matter provides a novel top down soft lithographic technique non wetting imprint lithography NoWIL which allows completely isolated nanostructures to be generated by taking advantage of the inherent low surface energy and swelling resistance of cured PFPE based materials. Without being bound to any one particular theory a key aspect of NoWIL is that both the elastomeric mold and the surface underneath the drop of monomer or resin are non wetting to this droplet. If the droplet wets this surface a thin scum layer will inevitably be present even if high pressures are exerted upon the mold. When both the elastomeric mold and the surface are non wetting i.e. a PFPE mold and fluorinated surface the liquid is confined only to the features of the mold and the scum layer is eliminated as a seal forms between the elastomeric mold and the surface under a slight pressure. Thus the presently disclosed subject matter provides for the first time a simple general soft lithographic method to produce nanoparticles of nearly any material size and shape that are limited only by the original master used to generate the mold.

Using NoWIL nanoparticles composed of 3 different polymers were generated from a variety of engineered silicon masters. Representative patterns include but are not limited to 3 m arrows see conical shapes that are 500 nm at the base and converge to 

Polyethylene glycol PEG is a material of interest for drug delivery applications because it is readily available non toxic and biocompatible. The use of PEG nanoparticles generated by inverse microemulsions to be used as gene delivery vectors has previously been reported. K. McAllister et al. 124 15198 15207 Dec. 25 2002 . In the presently disclosed subject matter NoWIL was performed using a commercially available PEG diacrylate and blending it with 1 wt of a photoinitiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone. PFPE molds were generated from a variety of patterned silicon substrates using a dimethacrylate functionalized PFPE oligomer PFPE DMA as described previously. See J. P. Rolland E. C. Hagberg G. M. Denison K. R. Carter J. M. DeSimone 43 5796 5799 2004 . Flat uniform non wetting surfaces were generated by using a silicon wafer treated with a fluoroalkyl trichlorosilane or by drawing a doctor s blade across a small drop of PFPE DMA on a glass substrate and photocuring. A small drop of PEG diacrylate was then placed on the non wetting surface and the patterned PFPE mold placed on top of it. The substrate was then placed in a molding apparatus and a small pressure was applied to push out the excess PEG diacrylate. The entire apparatus was then subjected to UV light 365 nm for ten minutes while under a nitrogen purge. Particles were observed after separation of the PFPE mold and flat non wetting substrate using optical microscopy scanning electron microscopy SEM and atomic force microscopy AFM .

Poly lactic acid PLA and derivatives thereof such as poly lactide co glycolide PLGA have had a considerable impact on the drug delivery and medical device communities because it is biodegradable. See K. E. Uhrich S. M. Cannizzaro R. S. Langer K. M. Shakesheff 99 3181 3198 November 1999 A. C. Albertsson I. K. Varma 4 1466 1486 November December 2003 . As with PEG based systems progress has been made toward the fabrication of PLGA particles through various dispersion techniques that result in size distributions and are strictly limited to spherical shapes. See C. Cui S. P. Schwendeman 34 8426 2001 .

The presently disclosed subject matter demonstrates the use of NoWIL to generate discrete PLA particles with total control over shape and size distribution. For example in one embodiment one gram of 3S cis 3 6 dimethyl 1 4 dioxane 2 5 dione was heated above its melting temperature to 110 C. and 20 L of stannous octoate catalyst initiator was added to the liquid monomer. A drop of the PLA monomer solution was then placed into a preheated molding apparatus which contained a non wetting flat substrate and mold. A small pressure was applied as previously described to push out excess PLA monomer. The apparatus was allowed to heat at 110 C. for 15 h until the polymerization was complete. The PFPE DMA mold and the flat non wetting substrate were then separated to reveal the PLA particles.

To further demonstrate the versatility of NoWIL particles composed of a conducting polymer polypyrrole PPy were generated. PPy particles have been formed using dispersion methods see M. R. Simmons P. A. Chaloner S. P. Armes 11 4222 1995 as well as lost wax techniques see P. Jiang J. F. Bertone V. L. Colvin 291 453 2001 .

The presently disclosed subject matter demonstrate for the first time complete control over shape and size distribution of PPy particles. Pyrrole is known to polymerize instantaneously when in contact with oxidants such as perchloric acid. Dravid et al. has shown that this polymerization can be retarded by the addition of tetrahydrofuran THF to the pyrrole. See M. Su M. Aslam L. Fu N. Q. Wu V. P. Dravid 84 4200 4202 May 24 2004 .

The presently disclosed subject matter takes advantage of this property in the formation of PPy particles by NoWIL. For example 50 L of a 1 1 v v solution of THF pyrrole was added to 50 L of 70 perchloric acid. A drop of this clear brown solution prior to complete polymerization into the molding apparatus and applied pressure to remove excess solution. The apparatus was then placed into the vacuum oven overnight to remove the THF and water. PPy particles were fabricated with good fidelity using the same masters as previously described.

Importantly the materials properties and polymerization mechanisms of PLA PEG and PPy are completely different. For example while PLA is a high modulus semicrystalline polymer formed using a metal catalyzed ring opening polymerization at high temperature PEG is a malleable waxy solid that is photocured free radically and PPy is a conducting polymer polymerized using harsh oxidants. The fact that NoWIL can be used to fabricate particles from these diverse classes of polymeric materials that require very different reaction conditions underscores its generality and importance.

In addition to its ability to precisely control the size and shape of particles NoWIL offers tremendous opportunities for the facile encapsulation of agents into nanoparticles. As described in Example 3 14 NoWIL can be used to encapsulate a 24 mer DNA strand fluorescently tagged with CY 3 inside the previously described 200 nm trapezoidal PEG particles. This was accomplished by simply adding the DNA to the monomer water solution and molding them as described. We were able to confirm the encapsulation by observing the particles using confocal fluorescence microscopy see . The presently described approach offers a distinct advantage over other encapsulation methods in that no surfactants condensation agents and the like are required. Furthermore the fabrication of monodisperse 200 nm particles containing DNA represents a breakthrough step towards artificial viruses. Accordingly a host of biologically important agents such as gene fragments pharmaceuticals oligonucleotides and viruses can be encapsulated by this method.

The method also is amenable to non biologically oriented agents such as metal nanoparticles crystals or catalysts. Further the simplicity of this system allows for straightforward adjustment of particle properties such as crosslink density charge and composition by the addition of other comonomers and combinatorial generation of particle formulations that can be tailored for specific applications.

Accordingly NoWIL is a highly versatile method for the production of isolated discrete nanostructures of nearly any size and shape. The shapes presented herein were engineered non arbitrary shapes. NoWIL can easily be used to mold and replicate non engineered shapes found in nature such as viruses crystals proteins and the like. Furthermore the technique can generate particles from a wide variety of organic and inorganic materials containing nearly any cargo. The method is simplistically elegant in that it does not involve complex surfactants or reaction conditions to generate nanoparticles. Finally the process can be amplified to an industrial scale by using existing soft lithography roller technology see Y. N. Xia D. Qin G. M. Whitesides 8 1015 1017 December 1996 or silk screen printing methods.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

