---

title: Emergency auto-notification
abstract: According to an embodiment, methods and systems can provide emergency auto-notification. Thus, in the event of an emergency, such as a predefined emergency, one or more people can be notified of a user's condition, needs, environment, and location, for example. The people to be notified can be predetermined, such as during a set up procedure. The people to be notified can be notified by text messaging, email, vice, voice mail, or any other method. The notification can be triggered by any desired criteria. For example, the notification can be triggered by the user's condition, location, or environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633549&OS=09633549&RS=09633549
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09633549
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130919
---
The present disclosure generally relates to electronic communications and more particularly relates to methods and systems for emergency auto notification such as for notifying a contact regarding an emergency situation involving a user when the user is unable to communicate.

Emergency situations are too common. Emergency situations can result from accidents crimes natural disasters diseases and the like. In some instances an emergency situation can cause a person to require help such as medical care. Sometimes the person requiring help is unable to communicate. For example the person requiring help can be unconscious and in serious need of medical care. Such emergency situations can be life threatening. An immediate and appropriate response can be necessary to save the life of the person who needs help.

Important information such as the condition needs and or location of the person requiring help can be unknown those who need this information in order to respond to the emergency. Such others can be capable of providing help if they have this information. For example police officers and other emergency responding personnel need to know the location of the person requiring help and need to know the nature of the emergency. As a further example emergency medical personnel such as emergency medical technicians EMT s and emergency room physicians need information regarding the person s medical condition such as the person s vital signs as soon as possible.

For example a person with diabetes can be in a diabetic coma and in the emergency room of a hospital. The condition and location of the person who is in the diabetic coma can be unknown to others who can help if they have this information. Such others can help for example by providing important information such as the fact that the person has diabetes and or needs insulin to attending medical personnel.

The person in the diabetic coma can be incapable of communicating the emergency to others. The person can be incapable of communicating important information such as the fact that the person is diabetic and or needs insulin regarding the emergency to attending medical personnel. Thus the attending medical personnel must take time to determine the person s condition. If there is not enough time the person s condition can worsen possibly to the point of being life threatening.

Other people including those who are not able to help may need to know of the emergency. For example if the person will not be able to attend a meeting or will not be able to join in an activity with others then there may be a need for the others to be aware that the person cannot attend the meeting or join in.

According to an embodiment methods and systems can provide emergency auto notification. The emergency auto notification can help to provide an immediate and appropriate response to an emergency such as when a user who requires help is unable to communicate e.g. is unable to request help.

Thus in the event of an emergency one or more people can be notified of a user s condition needs environment and location for example. The people to be notified can be predetermined such as during a set up procedure. The people to be notified can be notified by text messaging email voice voice mail or any other method. The notification can be triggered by any desired criteria. For example the notification can be triggered by the user s condition location and or environment.

The emergency can be a predefined emergency. Thus the emergency can be indicated by criteria that defines a particular emergency. For example a medical emergency can be indicated by a blood glucose level that is too low or too high. As a further example a house fire can be indicated by the presence of smoke heat and or fire at the location of a house. As yet a further example a traffic accident can be indicated by an abrupt stop and or deployment of an airbag on a freeway. Sensors such as those of a user mobile device can detect blood glucose levels smoke heat fire acceleration deceleration deployment of an airbag such as via electronic signals an acceleration or shock profile or spectrum sound the presence of the powder used to pack the airbag the presence of the spent explosive used to deploy the airbag body temperature change pulse rate heart beat change and the like.

The emergency can be an emergency that is not predefined. The emergency can be indicated when the system recognizes a situation that is consistent with an emergency. For example a medical emergency can be indicated by biometric information of the user not being consistent with normal or non emergency biometric information of the user. As a further example a building emergency can be indicated by structural information such as temperature humidity pressure the presence of water the presence of smoke not being consistent with normal or non emergency information for the building. As yet a further example a traffic emergency can be indicated by the user not moving on a roadway in the same manner at the same speed or in the same direction for example as the user generally moves on the roadway at a particular time of day.

The user can be unable or unwilling to communicate. For example the user can be unconscious. As a further example the user can be conscious and injured such that the injury inhibits communication. As yet a further example the user can be busy or otherwise engaged such as driving an automobile and thus unable or unwilling to communicate. Thus an emergency can be any situation or event wherein the user is unable or unwilling to communicate. Thus an emergency may be determined using one or more of sensed environmental conditions by the user device sensed biometric information of the user by the user device location of the user device time or day etc. For example the system may determine an emergency when the user is detected at a hospital location at 3 a.m. in the morning indicating a possible emergency room situation. If there is no motion detected for the user device the system may assume the user s belongings have been removed such as in a situation where the user in an emergency room situation. The user s biometrics may also aid in the determination such as lower pulse rate higher pulse rate lower body temperature etc. Changes in biometrics and or environment can be indicative of emergencies.

According to an embodiment the notification can occur automatically such as without intervention from the user when an emergency is determined. Thus the communication can occur when the user is unable or unwilling to communicate.

According to an embodiment the user can be provided with the ability to abort the communication. For example if the user is able and willing to communicate the user may want to abort the emergency auto communication and or perform any desired communication personally. The default can be for the emergency auto communication system to perform auto notification if the user does not abort the communication within a certain period of time.

According to an embodiment important information such as the condition needs and or location of a person requiring help can be communicated to others who can use this information to help the person in need. For example information such as the location of the person requiring help and the nature of the emergency can be provided to police officers and other emergency responding personnel. As a further example information regarding the person s medical condition such as the person s vital signs emergency can be provided to medical personnel such as emergency medical technicians EMT s and or physicians.

According to an embodiment other people including those who are not able to help may need to know of the emergency. For example if the person will not be able to attend a meeting or to join in an activity with others then there may be a need for the others to be aware that the person cannot attend the meeting or join in. For example if a professional baseball player is unable to be at a game then the player s team needs to know this information as soon as possible. In another example loved ones or relatives may be notified so that they can go see the person or take other actions.

According to an embodiment a system can comprise one or more memories. The one or more memories can store information regarding a user. For example the one or more memories can store information regarding contacts of a user. The information regarding the contacts can include the name of the contact one or more telephone numbers of the contact such as a home telephone number an office telephone number and or a cellular telephone number an email address of the contact a home address of the contact and any other information that can facilitate contacting of the contact. The one or more memories can contain any information that facilitates emergency auto notification.

Methods for communicating with the contact can be prioritized and or categorized. For example the methods for communicating with the contact can be prioritized such that text messaging is first attempted. If text messaging fails to obtain a response within a predetermined amount of time then voice messaging can be attempted. If voice messaging fails to obtain a response within a predetermined amount of time then an email can be sent.

The methods of communicating can be categorized such that different methods of communicating are used for different types of emergencies. For example text messaging followed by voice messaging can be used for medical emergencies while email is used for traffic delays. Thus different methods of communications can be used for different types of emergencies and different prioritizations of methods of communications can be used for different types of emergencies.

The information regarding the contacts such as the information stored in the one or more memories can include a prioritization and or categorization of the contacts. The prioritization of the contacts can indicate an order in which the contacts are to be notified in the event of an emergency. The categorization of the contacts can indicate which of the contacts are to be notified in the event of a particular type of emergency.

Communications can be sent to more than one contact. For example the user s spouse the user employer and the user s brother in law can be notified in the event of an emergency involving the user. Such communications can be substantially serial or can be substantially in parallel.

The user s schedule can be accessed. Anyone with whom the user is due to meet can be notified of a potential delay or postponement of the meeting. For example in response to the communication the system can access the user s Outlook schedule and determine that the user is due at a meeting in thirty minutes. Based upon the nature of the emergency and or the locations of the user and the meeting place the system can determine that the user is unlikely to attend the meeting. One or more other participants of the meeting or other responsible persons can be notified that the user will not likely attend the meeting.

Emergency response personnel can be notified of the emergency. The particular organization or emergency response personnel notified can depend upon the nature of the emergency and or the location of the user. For example the local with respect to the location of the user fire department can be notified if the user is involved in a fire such as being sensed by smoke and or heat detectors of the user mobile device . As a further example the highway patrol can be notified of an emergency such as an automobile accident such as sensed by accelerometers and or gyroscopes of the user mobile device on an interstate highway.

The one or more memories can be one or more memories of a server a mobile device or any other device or system. The one or more memories can all be memories of the same device or system. The one or more memories can be memories of different devices and or systems. For example the one or more memories can be memories of one or more mobile devices and or one or more servers.

One or more hardware processors can be in communication with the one or more memories. The one or more hardware processors can be one or more hardware processors of a server a mobile device or any other system or device. The one or more hardware processors can be hardware processors of the different devices and or systems. For example the one or more hardware processors can be hardware processors of one or more mobile devices and or one or more servers.

The one or more hardware processors can be operable to facilitate emergency auto notification. For example the one or more hardware processors can be operable to receive a first communication from a user mobile device indicative of an emergency regarding the user. In response to the first communication the one or more hardware processors can be operative to access the contact information in the one or more memories and then determine at least in part from the contact information a contact. Determining the contact can comprise determining an identity of the contact and or determining how the system is to communicate with the contact. For example the contact can be the user s spouse and the user s spouse can be communicated with via text messaging.

The one or more hardware processors can be operable to send a second communication to the contact regarding the emergency. The second communication can include information regarding the identity of the user the location of the user and or the nature of the emergency. Additionally biometric information and or any other information regarding the user or the emergency can be sent.

The first communication can occur in response to an emergency such as an emergency that puts the user s life or health at risk. The emergency can be a medical emergency an accident a natural disaster or any other event for which the user may need or desire assistance. For example the user can be in an emergency room suffering from a heart attack.

The emergency can be an emergency that does not put the user s life or health at risk. For example the user can be stuck in traffic and late for a scheduled meeting. The system can infer that the user is stuck in traffic and late for a scheduled meeting such as from the user s Outlook Schedule the user s GPS location rate of travel and an Internet traffic report. The emergency can be any event for which it is desirable that the contact be informed of the event and or that the contact take action in response to the event.

The first communication can include information that indicates a location of the user. For example the first communication can include information regarding a GPS location of the user such as information obtained from the GPS of the user mobile device. The location can be a street address. The location can be a named location such as Boston General Hospital or McArthur Park.

The location can be based upon any available means of providing such information. For example the location can be GPS based cellular telephone base such as by identifying the nearest cellular telephone tower via which the user is communicating and or the location can be Internet based such as by determining the location of a stationary IP address or the location of a local area network LAN via which the user is communicating . The location can be precise or general. For example the location can include GPS coordinates that are precise to within a few meters. As a further example the location can merely be a city state region and or country. For example if the user is in an airplane crash in the Peruvian Andes the location can indicate a particular portion of Peru. Location information can also be determined using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE with the user s mobile device when the user is a location capable of BLE checkin or communication.

The first communication can include information that indicates the type of the emergency. For example first communication can include information that indicates whether the emergency is a medical emergency an accident a natural disaster or some other type of emergency. The type of emergency can be used to determine to which contact the second communication is to be sent.

The first communication can include biometric information. The biometric information can be used to determine the type of emergency the severity of the emergency and one or more options for responding to the emergency. Examples of such biometric information can include heart rate respiration blood pressure temperature electrocardiogram blood chemistry such as partial pressure of oxygen and glucose level electroencephalogram responsiveness such as indicated by movement in response to stimuli like sound e.g. ringing for the mobile device attitude standing sitting prone or supine for example and the like. The biometric information can include vital signs and or any other desired information regarding the user.

The biometric information can be assessed onsite such as at the location of the user by the user mobile device or can be assessed remotely such as by the emergency auto notification system which can be located anywhere . Assessing the biometric information can result in instructions for treating or caring for the user by emergency responders bystanders the user or anyone else.

The second communication can include instructions for administering therapy to the user. The second communication can include instructions for administering first aid. For example the second communication can include instructions for treating the user for shock such as keeping the user warm and monitoring circulation.

The second communication can include information that causes the administration of therapy to the user. For example the second communication can include signals that cause an insulin pump to administer a prescribed dose of insulin to the user. As a further example the second communication can include signals that cause a defibrillator to provide defibrillation to the user. As yet a further example the second communication can include signals that modify operation of a pacemaker of the user. Medical devices such as the insulin pump the defibrillator and the pacemaker can be in communication with the user mobile device such as via WiFi Bluetooth infrared IR near field communications NFC and the like.

Environmental information can be included in the first communication. For example the first communication can include ambient temperature humidity barometric pressure radiation levels such as alpha radiation beta radiation gamma radiation cosmic radiation x rays and neutron radiation presence of chemicals including toxins such as smoke carbon monoxide and chlorine presence of microbes such as pathogens video of the user as well as of others and or the user s environment audio of the user as well as of others and or the user s environment and or an indication of the presence of other people as sensed by motion infrared signature sound machine vision or any other method . The one or more hardware processors can be operable to respond to the biometric information. The response can depend upon the specific biometric information included in the first communication. For example emergency responder can be warned of excessive carbon monoxide levels. Thus the response can be defined at least in part by a combination of the biometric information and environmental information.

The first communication can include any combination of biometric information environmental information and any other available information in communications from the user or from others or any other information. For example the first communication can include an identity of the user the user s location the user s heart rate attitude such as upright sitting prone or supine video of the user s environment audio of the user s environment the ambient temperature and an indication of the presence of other people.

A plurality of user mobile devices can cooperate to provide enhanced information. A plurality of user mobile devices covering an area can cooperate to provide environment information for the area. For example during a forest fire a plurality of user mobile devices can provide temperature humidity and wind direction over an area of many acres or square miles and this information can be used by fire fighters to better determine strategies for fighting the fire.

As a further example during a natural disaster such as a tsunami hurricane flood or earthquake a plurality of user mobile devices can provide video and audio over an area of several square miles to Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA personnel. In this manner the FEMA personnel can better manage the emergency.

Thus the first communication can include information indicative of a type of the emergency. The system can determine the contact and or the response based at least in part on the type of emergency. In this manner a response that is appropriate with regard to the nature of the emergency can be better assured.

The first communication can be sent in response to the mobile device being at a predefined location and the first communication can include information indicative of the predefined location. Thus an emergency can be defined as the user being at a predefined location. For example an emergency can be defined as the user being at an emergency room of a hospital.

An emergency can be defined as the user being at or near a predefined location for a predefine length of time. For example an emergency can be defined as the user being near the same location on a freeway for an excessive length of time thus indicating that the user is driving in heavy traffic and will consequently be delayed.

Communication such as ongoing communication between the user the system the contact and or any responders such as emergency medical personnel can be provided. Such communication can be bidirectional. Thus the one or more hardware processors can be operable to facilitate bidirectional communication between the contact and the user mobile device for example.

Ongoing or extended communication such as bidirectional communication can be triggered by an event that can be interpreted as a potential emergency. Such communication can be monitored such as by a person or device to determine if an emergency or other situation requiring assistance requiring a response requiring further monitoring or requiring any other action is in progress. Such ongoing monitoring can continue indefinitely. For example if the user enters an environment that is predefined as hazardous such as an environment containing a predetermined level of toxins smoke radiation or pathogens then system can be alerted and bidirectional communication can be initiated and maintained as desired. The bidirectional communication can allow management or responding personnel to ask the user questions about the user s condition about the condition of others and or about the environment.

Once communication such as unidirectional bidirectional data voice or video communication is established the communication can continue until stopped such as by the user the system or the contact. Thus extended or ongoing monitoring of the user the environment and or the situation can be provided.

For example the system can provide bidirectional or unidirectional voice video text or data communications. Such communications can be between the user and the contact. In some instances it may be beneficial to provide such communications with the user even when the user is otherwise incapable of response. For example the user may be paralyzed or pinned down and incapable of movement yet still capable of voice response.

Such communications can be between someone who is with the user such as medical or emergency response personnel and the contact. Such communications can be between any two parties.

According to an embodiment a method can comprise storing contact information for a user receiving such as electronically via the one or more hardware processors a first communication from a user mobile device that is indicative of an emergency regarding the user accessing such as via the one or more hardware processors the contact information in the one or more memories and determining such as via the one or more hardware processors and at least in part from the contact information a contact. In response to receiving the first communication a second communication can be sent such as via the one or more hardware processors to the contact regarding the emergency.

According to an embodiment a computer program product can comprise a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium can have computer readable and executable code for instructing one or more processors to perform any of the methods disclosed herein.

The one or more memories and one or more hardware processors can be part of the same device e.g. server. The one or more memories and one or more hardware processors can be part of the different devices e.g. servers. The one or more memories and one or more hardware processors can be co located. The one or more memories and one or more hardware processors can be located in different places e.g. different rooms different buildings different cities or different states.

Exemplary applications of apparatuses and methods according to one or more embodiments are described herein. These examples are being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the embodiments. It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure. Other applications are possible such that the following examples should not be taken as limiting.

In this detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description and in which are shown by way of illustration various specific embodiments. Although these embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to practice the embodiments it is understood that these examples are not limiting such that other embodiments may be used and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The disclosure relates in the various described embodiments to devices systems and methods involving activities with respect to emergency auto notification. In various particular embodiments the systems or methods can involve one or more user devices in communication over a network. Such a network can facilitate a streamlined process involving emergency auto notification.

While the various examples disclosed herein focus on emergency auto notification it will be understood that the various inventive principles and embodiments disclosed herein can be applied to other aspects of electronic commerce as well.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of a computing system adapted for implementing one or more processes involving emergency auto notification is illustrated in block diagram format. As shown computing system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

Computing system can include among various devices servers databases and other elements a client that may comprise or employ one or more client devices such as a mobile computing device a PC and or any other computing device having computing and or communications capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. Client devices generally may provide one or more client programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS application e.g. GPS mapping directions point of interest locator and so forth. One or more of client programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more of client devices .

As shown client can be communicatively coupled via one or more networks to a network based system . Network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow client to establish one or more communications sessions with network based system using various computing devices and or client programs . Accordingly a communications session between client and network based system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates a computing system deployed in a client server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Data and or voice communications between client an institution e.g. hospital or other physical location and or the network based system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network a landline telephone network a VoIP network Bluetooth LE as well as other suitable networks. For example client may communicate with network based system over the Internet or other suitable WAN by sending and or receiving information via interaction with a web site e mail IM session and or video messaging session. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between client and system can take place as will be readily appreciated.

In various embodiments computing system can include among other elements a third party which may comprise or employ a third party server hosting a third party application . In various implementations third party server and or third party application may host a web site associated with or employed by a third party . For example third party server and or third party application may enable network based system to provide client with additional services and or information such as emergency auto notification. In some embodiments one or more of client programs may be used to access network based system via third party . For example client may use a web client to access and or receive content from network based system after initially communicating with a third party web site .

Network based system may comprise one or more communications servers to provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . Communications servers can include a web server an API server and or a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . Application servers of network based system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide various emergency auto notification services to users that access network based system . In various embodiments client may communicate with applications servers of network based system via one or more of a web interface provided by web server a programmatic interface provided by API server and or a messaging interface provided by messaging server . It can be appreciated that web server API server and messaging server may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of client devices and or client programs and may interoperate with each other in some implementations.

Web server may be arranged to communicate with web clients and or applications such as a web browser web browser toolbar desktop widget mobile widget web based application web based interpreter virtual machine and so forth. API server may be arranged to communicate with various client programs and or a third party application comprising an implementation of API for network based system . Messaging server may be arranged to communicate with various messaging clients and or applications such as e mail IM SMS MMS telephone VoIP video messaging and so forth and messaging server may provide a messaging interface to enable access by client and or third party to the various services and functions provided by application servers .

When implemented as an emergency auto notification system application servers of network based system may provide various online marketplace and electronic commerce services including for example account services buying services selling services listing catalog services dynamic content management services delivery services payment services and notification services. Application servers may include an account server a buying server a selling server a listing catalog server a dynamic content management server a payment server a notification server and or a delivery server structured and arranged to provide emergency auto notification services.

Application servers in turn may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including a subscriber database an active events database and or a transaction database . Databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments.

Continuing with an exemplary computer system suitable for implementing on one or more devices of the computing system in is depicted in block diagram format. In various implementations a device that includes computer system may comprise a personal computing device e.g. a smart phone a computing tablet a personal computer laptop PDA Bluetooth device key FOB badge etc. that is capable of communicating with a network. The emergency auto notification system and or a payment provider may utilize a network computing device e.g. a network server capable of communicating with the network. It should be appreciated that each of the devices utilized by users the emergency auto notification system and the payment providers may be implemented as computer system in a manner as follows.

Computer system can include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via a network. In an embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other hardware processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices over a network via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In an embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments execution of instruction sequences for practicing the embodiments may be performed by a computer system. In various other embodiments a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link e.g. LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the embodiments in coordination with one another. Modules described herein can be embodied in one or more computer readable media or be in communication with one or more processors to execute or process the steps described herein.

A computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through a communication link and a communication interface. Received program code may be executed by a processor as received and or stored in a disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa for example a virtual Secure Element vSE implementation or a logical hardware implementation.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable and executable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Social networking information can include likes interests past events wants owns and so forth such as may be found on social networking websites such as Facebook YouTube Twitter LinkedIn Yelp MeetMe MyYearbook Google MySpace Pinterest and the like among other possible websites. External information can include song or artist lists on a separate user device or profile as well as data from media websites or applications such as Pandora Spotify iTunes and the like. Social networking information can be used by the system to determine contacts of the user medical conditions of the user treatments for the user and other useful information for the system.

As will be readily appreciated the foregoing networks systems devices and numerous variations thereof can be used to implement the emergency auto notification system described herein. Various other details and features may also be included as will be appreciated. In various embodiments one or more systems and methods can notify contacts of the user when the user is involved in an emergency. In this manner a quicker and more appropriate response to the user can be provided.

As noted with respect to above a computer system can include one or more processors and one or more memories or storage devices . Such a computer system can be part of a user device part of one or more servers on a network based system or some combination thereof. In particular a given computing system can include a first memory device or storage component adapted to store information regarding one or more users of the system as well as a second memory device or storage component adapted to store information regarding an online merchant.

In addition processor the memory and or storage can be adapted to facilitate emergency auto notification. Further functionality of the one or more processors can include facilitating online purchasing payment such as for online purchasing or any other reason .

The merchant device can comprise a merchant checkout terminal a computer a BLE beacon and or a server for example. The merchant device can include a memory and a processor . The merchant device can be used for processing purchases from the merchant. The merchant device can be used by the system for obtaining information regarding the user such as information regarding a medical condition of the user. For example the merchant can be a drug store and the medical information can be a list of the user s prescriptions. Thus the merchant device can provide information that is useful by the system in determining a response to an emergency of the user. Merchant device need not be associated with a merchant and merchant as used herein may apply to hospitals police stations doctor offices and other physical locations associated with emergency situations.

Thus the merchant device can comprise a beacon. The beacon can be a WiFi device a Bluetooth device such as a BLE device or any other device that is capable of functioning as a beacon. The beacon can be a wireless device that provides a signal to the user mobile device such as via radio infrared IR ultrasound or any other method. The beacon can be an optical device. The beacon can be any device that the user mobile device can recognize and or that the user mobile device can obtain a signal from wherein the signal is indicative of the location of the user mobile device .

The merchant device can be a device of a merchant hospital such as an emergency room clinic doctor s office or any other place or entity. For example the beacon can be a WiFi device or a BLE device in or proximate the emergency room of a hospital. The merchant device can be at any location.

The beacon can be a device that is not intended to function as a beacon and that provides an indication of location. The beacon can be any device that has a recognizable or characteristic electromagnetic signature which can provide an indication of location. For example the beacon can be an electronic device that is commonly used in an emergency room a doctor s office an ambulance or a hospital and that is not commonly used elsewhere. For example the beacon can be an electrocardiogram ECG machine. The beacon can be any device or combination of devices that provide the user mobile device with a signal or a combination of signals that tend to indicate a location of the user mobile device . Thus when the user is near such a device or combination of devices one or more contacts can be informed that a potential emergency exists.

The location of the merchant device can be a location where the user is likely to go or to which the user is likely to be transported such as by an ambulance in response to an emergency of the user. For example if the user is seriously hurt in an automobile accident then the user is likely to go to an emergency room. Thus according to an embodiment one or more contacts can be notified when the user is in an emergency room.

The beacon can be a combination of devices. For example the beacon can be a combination of electronic devices that are commonly found in an ambulance. The combination of electronic devices can provide an electromagnetic signature that is unique to ambulances in general and or that is unique to a particular ambulance. For example the beacon can comprise an ECG machine a defibrillator and the ambulance s ignition system such as the ambulance s alternator combined with the ambulance s spark plugs . Such a combination of devices can provide an electromagnetic signature that is unique to ambulances in general and or that is unique to the particular ambulance.

After the user mobile device has received a signal from the beacon the user mobile device can use GPS such as GPS to determine the location of the user mobile device and thus to determine the location of the user. The GPS location of the user can be provided to the server for example. Thus the merchant device e.g. the beacon can trigger the communication and the GPS can provide the location information in response to such triggering.

The user mobile device can be carried by the user. The user mobile device can comprise a cellular telephone a smart telephone a hand held computer a laptop computer a notebook computer or a tablet computer for example. The user mobile device can comprise a dedicated device for use primarily or only with the emergency auto notification system. The user mobile device can include a processor a memory and a global positioning system GPS . The user mobile device can be used for routine telephone calls text messaging web browsing and the like. The user mobile device can be used for monitoring biometrics of the user monitoring the environment of the user sensing emergencies sending the first communication receiving instructions for example.

The user mobile device can comprise any desired sensors. Such sensors can be built into the user mobile device . Such sensors can be in communication wired or wireless with the user mobile device . For example the user mobile device can comprise an ambient temperature sensor a humidity sensor a barometric pressure sensor a radiation sensor a chemical sensor a microbe sensor attitude motions sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes a video camera and or still camera and a microphone. The user mobile device can be configured to communicate with sensors that are remote with respect to the user mobile device .

Sensors such as the ambient temperature sensor the humidity sensor the barometric pressure sensor the radiation sensor the chemical sensor the microbe sensor the attitude motions sensors the video camera the still camera and the microphone can be built into the user mobile device . Sensors such as those associated with an electrocardiograph body temperature monitoring respiration rate monitoring blood pressure monitoring heart rate monitoring and the like can be attached to the user mobile device via wires. Such sensors can communicate with the user mobile device either via wires or wirelessly such as via near field communications NFC methods or other short range communications methods such as infrared IR Bluetooth WiFi and WiMax .

An app can be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . The app can be used for monitoring biometrics of the user monitoring the environment of the user sensing emergencies sending the first communication receiving instructions for example.

One or more contact mobile devices s can be carried by one or more contacts. Each contact mobile device s can comprise a cellular telephone a smart telephone a hand held computer a laptop computer a notebook computer or a tablet computer for example. Each contact mobile device s can include a processor a memory and a global positioning system GPS . Each of the contact mobile device s can be used for routine telephone calls text messaging web browsing and the like. Each of the contact mobile device s can be used for receiving notification regarding an emergency of the user. The contact mobile device s can be the same as the user mobile device or can be different with respect thereto.

An app can be stored in the memory and executed by the processor . The app can be used for monitoring biometrics of the user monitoring the environment of the user sensing emergencies sending the first communication and or receiving instructions for example.

The server can comprise a server of an online seller such as eBay can be a server of a payment provider such as Paypal Inc. land or can be a server of a dedicated emergency notification provider or any other entity. The server can be a single server or can be a plurality of servers. The server can include one or more processors and a memory . The memory can be a memory of the server or a memory that is associated with the server . The memory can be a distributed memory. The memory can store a user account and a merchant account . The server can be used for online sales facilitating payments emergency auto notification and or any other reason. The server can be used for receiving the first communication accessing the contact information determining one or more contacts determining a response to the first communication and or sending the second communication. The server can be used to practice any desired portion of the emergency auto notification system.

Generally the merchant device the user mobile device the contact mobile device s and the payment server can perform functions discussed herein. That is at least to some extent a function that is discussed herein as being performed via a particular one of these devices can be performed by a different one of these devices by a combination of these devices and or by other devices.

The merchant device the user mobile device the contact mobile device s the social network and the server can communicate with one another via a network such as the Internet . The merchant device the mobile device the contact mobile device s the social network and the server can communicate with one another via one or more networks such as local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs cellular telephone networks and the like. The merchant device the user mobile device the other mobile devices the social network the social network and the server can communicate with one another at least partially via one or more near field communications NFC methods or other short range communications methods such as infrared IR Bluetooth WiFi and WiMax.

Information regarding the user such as a medical condition of the user can be obtained by the system for the social network . Similarly information regarding contacts of the user such as identities of the contacts telephone numbers of the contacts and email addresses of the contacts can be obtained by the system for the social network .

One or more memories can store contact information regarding contacts of a user as shown in step . For example the one or more memories can be one or more memories of the server . The one or more memories can be one or more memories of any device or system. For example the one or more memories can be one or more memories of the user mobile device the merchant mobile device the social network the contact mobile device or any other system or device.

One or more hardware processors can receive a first communication from a user mobile device that is indicative of an emergency regarding the user as shown in step . For example the one or more hardware processors can be one or more hardware processors of the server . The one or more hardware processors can be one or more hardware processors of any device or system. For example the one or more memories can be one or more hardware processors of the user mobile device the merchant mobile device the social network the contact mobile device or any other system or device.

The first communication can be a notification that the emergency has occurred as well as information related to the emergency. The information can be information that better facilitates an appropriate response to the emergency. The communication can be triggered by a device such as the user device . The communication can be triggered by the user or another person.

The one or more hardware processors can access the contact information in the one or more memories as shown in step . The one or more hardware processors can obtain contact information from any available source or combination of sources. For example the one or more hardware processors can obtain information from the user s Outlook contact from the Outlook contacts of another from the user s social network website and or from a social network website of another.

The one or more hardware processors can determine at least in part from the contact information a contact as shown in step . The one or more hardware processors can determine a plurality of contacts. The contacts can be prioritized such as according to prioritization information provided by the user during a set up process.

The one or more hardware processors can send a second communication to the contact regarding the emergency as shown in step . The one or more hardware processors can repeat communications to the same contact and or can send communications to more than one contact. The communication can be sent via the user device such that the recipients of the communication may see from whom the communication came from e.g. the user device as opposed to a reporting service.

The one or more memories and or the one or more processors can be one or more memories and or the one or more processors of the merchant device the user device the server the social network and or any other device or system. Memories and or processors from any number of devices systems and entities can cooperate to perform the emergency auto notification method disclosed herein.

In implementation at least some of the various embodiments may comprise a personal computing device such as a personal computer laptop PDA cellular phone or other personal computing or communication devices. The payment provider system may comprise a network computing device such as a server or a plurality of servers computers or processors combined to define a computer system or network to provide the payment services provided by a payment provider system.

In this regard a computer system may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard or keypad and or cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In an embodiment a disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

The computer system may perform specific operations by processor and executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in a system memory component. Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiments.

According to an embodiment the contacts the user the criteria for defining emergencies and or the response to emergencies such as the second communication can be either predefined such as during a set up process for the system or can not be predefined. For example artificial intelligence heuristics or adaptive self evolving programming can be used to define the contacts the user the criteria for defining emergencies and or the response to emergencies. Contacts for example can be determined from social media emails contact lists such as those of Outline contacts previously used telephone numbers and the like.

The emergency auto notification system can use information from databases such as those of an online seller such as for example eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. or those of an online payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such databases can be used to obtain information regarding a medical condition of the user and or contact information for contacts of the user. For example if the user regularly orders glucose monitoring equipment via eBay and or pays for such equipment via PayPal it can be inferred by the system that the user is diabetic. As a further example if the user regularly has eBay purchases shipped to an address other than the user s address it can be inferred by the system that a contact for the user may reside at this address. An attempt can be made to notify the contact at this address such as by the system and or local law enforcement personnel.

According to an embodiment the contact notified by the system can itself be an automated system. The automated system can then contact others such as emergency responders.

According to an embodiment the notification of the user s condition can include information such as a diagnosis treatment required or suggested GPS location directions to the user and or any other useful information. The system can query an automated diagnosis system to determine the diagnosis or treatment required for example.

As used herein the term emergency can include any event for which the user or another desires that a communication be sent to one or more contacts. An emergency can be an event that puts the health wellbeing life property schedule or other aspect of the user or another at risk. Examples of emergencies include events wherein the user is in an emergency room having a heart attack wherein the user is camping in the wilderness and is in a diabetic coma wherein the user is in a traffic accident and wherein the user uninjured and stuck in traffic.

As used herein the term contact can include any person group of people device system or the like. For example a contact can be the user s spouse. As a further example the contact can be a dedicated server that is configured to receive communications regarding emergencies and to respond to such communications. Contacts can be relatives friends co workers and emergency responders such as emergency medical technicians physicians firemen and the like . The user s physician can be a contact. The user s boss can be a contact.

As used herein the terms first communication and second communication can each include one or more communications. Thus the first communication can include a series of separate communications and the second communication can include a series of separate communications. Each communication can be analog or digital. Each communication can be any type of signal packet or other communication element that transfers information such as to or from the user the system and others.

As used herein the term network can include one or more local area networks LANs such as business networks one or more wide area networks WANs such as the Internet one or more cellular telephone networks or any other type or combination of electronic or optical networks.

One or more embodiments can provide methods and systems that facilitate emergency auto notification. The emergency auto notification can help to provide an immediate and appropriate response to an emergency such as when a user who requires help is unable to communicate e.g. is unable to request help. In this manner lives and property can be saved.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described various example embodiments of the disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is limited only by the claims

