---

title: Projector for defeating buried mines
abstract: An relatively small anti-personnel mine device having a housing about 2 to about 3 inches in diameter, by about 2 to about 4 inches in length, which device projects a dispersion pattern of ⅛ to ⅜ inch diameter hard fragments over at least a 3 to 4 inch radius circle to neutralize a typical, buried, anti-personnel mine. The device contains about 125 to 190 grams of plastic explosive, which when detonated impacts a gas push plate against which an array of the fragments are lodged—the gas push plate and the fragments being encased in a puck shaped matrix of plastic or resin. The effect of the device is such that in addition to neutralizing the mine, the overburden atop the buried mine is expelled exposing the mine, providing enhanced safety in removal and a warning if the mine is daisy-chained to other mines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09157705&OS=09157705&RS=09157705
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09157705
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130530
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for U.S. Government purposes without the payment or any royalty thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to an anti mine system capable of effectively neutralizing buried mines and in particular to such a system which is readily portable and can easily positioned by small to medium scale robots to defeat buried anti personnel.

While buried land mines were first developed in the late 19century and became widely used in WWI during the early 20century an effective system to disable them has proven elusive as the earth within which they are buried provides significant protection thereof. This difficulty in disabling such devices has been complicated with advances in the technology of the mines themselves such as blast resistant fusing anti handling features and anti tampering features.

In general mine clearing or breaching during combat operations is conducted at a rapid operational tempo and may be accomplished by using mine rollers or flails which either activate the mine s fuzing or damage the mine to the point where it will not function and detonate. Another option used has been to detonate bulk explosive charges on or over a known or potential minefield which detonation creates a spike in pressure that is often sufficient to trigger a detoration of simple pressure fuzed mines. If the explosive charge is large enough or is in sufficiently close proximity to the mine the pressure spike may be sufficient to sympathetically decorate a mine. These techniques are usually employed over a broad area when individual mines locations have not been identified. However advances in mine technology have produced blast resistant mines which have fuzes that are largely immune to being triggered by the brief pressure wave of a nearby bulk charge and require the more sustained pressure of a person or vehicle to detonate.

In non combat situations mine clearing is conducted at a slower tempo primarily due to humanitarian concerns such mine clearing is known as demining and often involves the locating and neutralization of all individual mines in a given area. The most reliable approach to demining is to layout a search grid and manually probed each grid point to find all possible threats however this is very manpower intensive and time consuming. Alternative means of locating mines have been developed which are somewhat faster such as using metal detectors and ground penetrating radar. However such alternative detection equipment has a halo of uncertainty wherein the mine itself may be within a given radius vs. the exact spot that the equipment is indicating. In general within an approximately an 8 inch diameter circle about the detectors point of focus is considered a standard halo of uncertainty.

While the use of mine detection equipment greatly improved the rate at which demining could be accomplished personnel still usually needed to remove the soil overfill material from over the mine to either manually disable the mine or by any number of other means including using a pyrotechnic torches shaped charges or chemical means disable the fuze or consume the explosive without it detonating. Or alternatively by simply placing a block of demolition charge in direct contact with the mine trigger the fuze or cause a sympathetic detonation of the explosive in the mine and potentially other mines in the area which may be dangerous to individuals in the vicinity . Further these method s generally require the mine s footprint to be positively ascertained since pyrotechnic torches shaped charge or chemical means generally have a single vector of attack which is limited in cross section. Also the effectiveness of bulk charges in sympathetically detonating a mine greatly decreases with the distance from the mine as the increased amount of overfill material dampens the pressure wave. However the limits of current detection equipment do not allow the precise determination of the mine footprint but only the location of the mine within the 4 inch radius halo of uncertainty. Ensuring that a single vector defeat method contacts a buried mine within this halo is substantially more problematic in the case of small anti personnel mines which can be as small as 2 inches in diameter.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 298 763 and 7 182 011 utilize an explosively dart or plurality of darts that travel parallel to each other downwardly to neutralize a mine. However these darts in so traveling downwardly perpendicular to face of the device are limited in that they impact only a mine directly below the face of the device. Therefore unless the device has a face large enough to cover the halo of uncertainty or if the mine is located directly under the face the device will fail to neutralize the mine.

An alternative anti mine device is taught in U.S. Pat. No. 6 155 155. This device projects shattered fragments from a fragmentation component to penetrate the overburden and neutralize the mines. However such irregular fragments produced by such a device would not effectively penetrate the overfill overburden and the device would have to be very large and heavy to realize the desired effect.

Robotic platforms robots have been increasingly deployed in demining operations to remove all humans from the danger zone. Increasingly robots of this type have been created that are smaller and more portable. Due to the emergence of increased usage of such smaller robotics in the demining mission a neutralization tool deployed from such a robot must not exceed its limited payload capability but still cover the halo of uncertainty.

Therefore it can be seen that there is a need in the art for a device small and light enough to be utilized by small to medium scale robotic in demining operations but which has the penetrating power to penetrate the overfill and effectively and totally neutralize buried mines within the entire halo of uncertainty even mines of the blast resistant variety.

The present invention addresses the above stated needs by providing an anti mine device which projects a dispersion pattern of fragments to cover at least a 3 to 4 inch radius 6 to 8 inch diameter circle for neutralizing antipersonnel mines the device being contained within a cylindrical canister i.e. a generally tubular housing which has an open front end opposed to a rear end wherein the bulk of the canister or housing extending from the rear end toward the open front is filled with about 125 to about 190 grams of a generally cylindrical mass of explosive preferably a plastic explosive such as C4 PE4 Semtex or the like the generally cylindrical mass of explosive having a rear end adjacent to the rear end of the tubular housing and a front end proximate to the open front end of the generally cylindrical housing wherein there is a is a generally circular gas check plate having a rear side located adjacent to the front end of the generally cylindrical mass of explosive and a front side located more proximate to the open front end of the tubular housing and where there are a plurality of generally spherical hard fragments located adjacent to the front end of the gas check plate wherein the fragments and the check plate are encased in a matrix formed of a plastic preferably an epoxy or a resin or similar material which matrix is in the form of a puck having a diameter such that it force fits within the inner diameter of the tubular housing. The rear end of the housing is closed except for a channel or other means by which an initiator i.e. a detonator is connected which initiator contacts the explosive proximate to the rear end of the housing thereby providing a means to initiate the detonation of that explosive. In operation the open front end of the housing is aligned with the location or suspected location of a mine such that when the mass of explosive is initiated the detonation thereof will vaporize or fracture the gas check plate into very small fragments and the spherical fragments located adjacent thereto will be driven into the overburden over a relatively wide pattern to effectively and totally neutralize any mine within that pattern. Further due to the relatively limited size and explosive effect of the present invention its detonation will minimize the likelihood of causing a sympathetic detonation of any other nearby mines.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the generally tubular housing described above can be from approximately about 2 to about 3 inches in diameter and preferably from approximately about 2 to about 4 inches in length so as to be easily emplaced over a mine by hand or so positioned by use of a robot. The gas check plate mentioned above as being contained within a matrix formed of a plastic preferably an epoxy or a resin or similar material may be preferably be a flat sheet of metal with opposed flat ends preferably of aluminum or copper. In an alternative embodiment the gas check plate may be curved i.e. having opposed curved ends with substantively the same curvature which may be curved convexly away from the explosive. In the event that the gas check plate is flat the matrix which encases it and the mentioned plurality of spherical hard fragments will be generally cylindrical in shape with opposed flat ends so as generally to be in the form of a puck. However in the event that the gas check plate is curved the front end of the generally cylindrical mass of explosive will have a curvature which matches that of the check plate such that the front end of the generally cylindrical mass of explosive will intimately lodge against the matrix which encases the curved check plate the check plate thereby being lodged very closely to the front end of the generally cylindrical mass of explosive.

Further preferably the tubular housing of the present invention may have support means consisting of three or more legs which extend from near the end of the tubular housing proximate to the open front end thereof such that the tubular housing can be placed on the extended legs and thereby positioned over the mine regarding which it is intended to neutralize. These legs should provide a standoff over the mine such that the open end of the housing is at least 3 to 4 inches over the mine preferably from 5 to 10 inches.

The generally spherical hard fragments useful within the subject invention are each from about to about inches in diameter preferably about in diameter should be packed closely together against the side of the gas check plate most proximate thereto. The fragments can be arranged in one two or three layers preferably one layer with from about 40 to about 70 fragments more preferably about 45 to 60 fragments more preferably 45 to 55 most preferably 45 to 50 and as stated above held in place by being encased in a matrix of a polymeric or similar material. The quantity and quality of explosive should be such as to be capable of forcing the fragments at least about 2.5 preferably at least about 3 to about 5 inches into the overburden or overfill i.e. the soil sand clay or other earth material within which a mine may be buried and still possess sufficient force to neutralize the mine itself. The diameter of the open front of the tubular housing the positioning of the housing in relationship to the mine the configuration of the push plate and the packing of the spherical fragments all should provide a shot pattern of fragments which is sufficiently dispersed to cover a halo of uncertainty of at least about 3 to 4 inches in radius within which of a typical anti personnel mine may be located and wherein the fragments should not interfere one with the next. Further the velocity imparted to the fragments must be such as not to cause the fragments to penetrate by hydrodynamic process which will not cause the fragments to erode or to spall which effects result in substantial diminished penetration and failure to penetrate to and disrupt the mine.

Again the quantity and quality of the explosive needed to impart a sufficient velocity to the spherical hard fragments to achieve the necessary force to neutralize the mine but less than that which would cause hydrodynamic penetration of the soil is a critical. This quantity is also important to avoid that the detonation of the inventive anti mine device will sympathetically detonate any other nearby mines including such that may be pressure sensitive. It has been found that packing C4 explosive or similar plastic explosive into the subject canister or tubular housing about 125 to about 190 grams of explosive and positioning this housing at least about 3 to 4 inches above the center of a mine has been found effective in achieving the desired penetration and neutralization effects without creating a shock wave that will sympathetically detonate any nearby mines. Further and surprisingly the overburden has been expelled by such a charge that neutralizes the mine therein eliminating the need to subsequently uncover the disabled mine. This expelling of the overburden can be extremely helpful as it allows a clear view of the mine for analysis from a robotic platform and subsequently for safe removal with minimal probing and handling. And importantly a clear view of the mine may uncover any daisy chain to other mines which is always a potential threat.

Additional aspects of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description. The aspects of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The invention as embodied and described herein and as shown in cut away view in is an explosively driven fragment projecting anti mine device used for projecting an array of hard spherical fragments at a velocity within a specific range over a specific area and through overfill i.e. overburden material to effectively neutralize a buried anti personnel mine or other type of mine wherein the relatively small and hard fragments do not spall and wherein the size of the subject invention and quantity of explosive therein is such as to minimize and sympathetic explosions of other nearby mines. Further the subject invention as discussed herein also surprisingly blows the overburden from over the mine to reveal it and aid in its safe removal.

Referring to an anti mine fragment projecting device of the present invention comprising a tubular housing having an open end and a closed end a puck which is a polymer matrix having a front side and a back side which is located within the housing proximate to and substantially occludes the open end thereof with the front side of the puck facing outward of the tubular housing I and which puck contains an array of spherical fragments in a generally disc arrangement within the puck with said spherical fragments held in this arrangement by a matrix of material such as epoxy a gas check plate is part of the puck and is affixed over substantially the entire back side an explosive material is retained within the tubular housing adjacent to the back side of the puck initiating means for the explosive material and an aperture in the closed end to receive said initiation means . In the preferred embodiment the spherical fragments are about to inches in diameter and the puck contains preferably about 45 to about 55 spherical fragments .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the tubular housing may be made of numerous frangible materials such as plastic phenolic fiberglass plaster rubber foam paper cardboard wood fiber board polyoxybenzilmethylenglycolanhydride reinforced resins or ceramics. Other materials may be suitable for construction and are well known to those in the art. A metallic housing should be avoided however as it would scatter metallic fragments over a wide area which would cause additional ground clutter for mine detection systems. As detailed above the housing may be comprised of a generally cylindrical or tubular body with an open end and a closed end .

In an alternate embodiment of the present invention the tubular housing may have another second open end rather than a closed end and in such a case a separate end cap may be affixed to the second open end . The end cap may be joined to the tubular housing by being screwed thereon or glued thereto using known methods.

The dimensions may vary somewhat but in order to accommodate a preferred disc array of about 45 to about 55 spherical fragments each about to about inches in diameter most preferably about inch in diameter a tubular housing having an inner diameter of preferably at least approximately about 1.75 to about 2 inches. In order to provide sufficient volume for the puck and sufficient explosive to impart the desired velocity to the afore mentioned spherical fragments the tubular housing may be about 2 to about 4 inches in length preferably approximately about 2.5 inches long. An aperture or relatively small hole is formed within closed end or the end cap in order to insert the initiating means discussed below.

As shown in the housing may also be designed to rest on be attached to or have integral mounting means such as a tripod set of legs or a connection to attach the housing to an external munition stand or other mount. These mounting means or other means may be use to suspend the housing at the desired standoff height above the ground or overburden wherein a suspected mine is located. Additionally the housing may also be designed to have integral or provisions for attaching aiming sights. Such mounting means or aiming features are known to those in the art.

In a preferred alternative of the present invention again referring to the puck preferably is of a diameter with respect to the inside diameter of the tubular housing such that it is a force fit therein thru the open end thereof such that the puck will maintain a position within the tubular housing once it is forced or pushed into the desired location within the tubular housing thru the open end thereof. The puck is so forced into the tubular housing to the point where it contacts the explosive therein. In the preferred embodiment the puck contains a plurality of pre formed generally spherical fragments of hard material in an array which may be either generally planar i.e. flat or advantageously generally convex in the outwardly facing direction such that the gas check plate that forms the interface between the explosive and the generally hard spherical fragments both preferably bow out i.e. bow away from the explosive and toward the open end of the tubular housing .

After the explosive of the present invention is initiated and detonates the hard spherical fragments of the present invention are driven to perforate the ground overburden and any mine therein to cause structural and operative failure of the mine and render it inoperative. As detailed herein the number of fragments fragment size fragment material etc are designed for a general coverage area with respect to standard the mine sizes and mine burial depth and general types of overburden material. The fragments should be made of a hard durable material so as to be able to withstand the launch acceleration forces and be able to penetrate the overfill or overburden as rigid bodies launch acceleration forces which lead to a velocity of up to about 1 400 meters second. While the fragments may be made of steel or brass or other metal or alloy thereof the most preferred material is tungsten carbide. As a tungsten carbide fragment pattern from an anti mine device of the present invention is easily discernible in the overburden from other soil discontinuities caused by pressure plates artillery shells and landmines as detected by Ground Penetrating Radar metal detectors which are in use. Further as stated above surprisingly the overburden is expelled or significantly blow away over the mine exposing the mine due to the action of the hard spherical fragments projected by the anti mine device of the present invention.

Given the projection velocity of the generally spherical hard fragments of the present invention between approximately 500 1400 meters second the spherical fragments can penetrate approximately 10 20 times their own diameter of a variety of overfill materials thus such fragments with a diameter of about 0.25 inches can penetrate 2.5 to 5 inches into the overburden and still have enough force momentum to penetrate and disable an anti personnel mine. In most cases such a penetration of from about 2.5 to about 5 inches is the minimum penetration necessary to neutralize an anti personnel mine buried under about 2 inches of overfill overburden.

Generally harder spherical fragments have been found to be more susceptible to spalling as a result of the shock from the explosion especially as the fragment diameter increases. This was found to be the case in earlier versions of the M18 Claymore where explosively driven hardened steel balls of about inch in diameter spalled into fragments and so performed very poorly. Therefore it was surprising to establish that the most preferred inch spherical fragments of the present invention manufactured of hard tungsten carbide material performed very well in the present application without any significant spalling.

Further the spherical projectiles of the present invention provided much better and more predictable penetration for a given fragment mass than for instance an irregular fragmentation component as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 155 155. The irregular fragments did not penetrate as efficiently into the overfill such that any anti mine device using such irregular fragments would have to be substantially larger than the present invention to achieve an equivalent effect. Further the generally spherical fragments of the current invention are superior to darts as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 726 244 as the darts require proper orientation for good penetration which is difficult do achieve over the desired short standoff ranges without larger more complex devices such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 763.

Notwithstanding the spalling issue discussed above larger projectiles may penetrate further. However if a given device size is assumed a smaller number of larger projectiles will not sufficiently blanket the target area with a dense enough cluster of fragments to obtain a high probability of hitting a small anti personnel mine which can be as small as 2 inches in diameter. Conversely if one were to make the spread of fragments too dense surprisingly it negatively affects the penetration of the fragments through the overfill material. Fragments penetrating too closely will interfere with each other as the soil overfill does not have sufficient room to move out of the way resulting in a traffic jam like degradation in penetration performance. It has been observed that approximately 40 to 55 more preferably 40 to 50 preferably roughly inch diameter projectiles projected over a 4 to 6 inch radius area 8 to 12 inches in diameter both provided a high probability of impacting a buried diameter anti personnel mine with a plurality of fragments while sufficiently distributing the fragments to prevent mutual interference during penetration of the overfill.

The effectiveness of an anti mine device of the present invention is illustrated in FIG. which depictions of a test sheet of copper buried under 2 inches of overfill which test sheet was subjected to being bombarded by spherical hard fragments discharged from an anti mine device of the present invention wherein the outer circle depicts extent of the 4 inch radius of uncertainty 8 inch diameter circle and the 3 non concentric circles are overlaid as examples of 3 inch anti personnel mine footprints. fragments can be seen to have penetrated and substantially uniformly cover the area of uncertainty and as can also be seen at least 3 fragments impacted and penetrated the 3 non concentric circles representing randomly placed anti personnel mines. Impact with such a plurality of fragments has led to the acceptable neutralization of the tested mines however recent testing has shown that even impact by a single fragment may be sufficient to neutralize an anti personnel mine. Thus to minimize the size and weight of the present anti mine device while providing a suitable density of projectiles to penetrate each mine with 3 or more fragments to neutralize anti personnel mines generally about 2 inch and larger diameter mines buried under 2 inches of overfill an embodiment of the present anti mine device with approximately 45 to 50 generally spherical hard fragments which are inches in diameter is preferred.

Further in the present invention all of the generally spherical hard fragments do not need to and will not penetrate to the same depth. As the pattern of fragments spreads the outer peripheral fragments of the array will be traveling at an angle i.e. on the diagonal meaning they essentially travel through more overburden to reach a given depth and accordingly will become spent at a somewhat shallower depth. However the outer fragments advantageously achieve a wider spread and thus act to defeat mines at the outer fringe of the desired 4 inch radius halo of uncertainty at such shallower depths.

The generally spherical hard fragments of the present invention are held in the required geometry by a matrix of material such as a plastic preferably an epoxy or a resin similarly to how the inch soft steel balls of an M18A1 Claymore mine are embedded in steel filled epoxy. As detailed above the matrix material of the present invention holds the generally spherical hard fragments and the gas check plate together in the form of a puck where the gas check plate comprises substantially the entire back side of the puck between the fragments and the explosive .

The gas check plate of the present invention serves to briefly entrap the explosive gases to increase the energy imparted to the fragments . The gas check plate may be manufactured of a material such as aluminum or copper or similar. Although made of metal the gas check plate vaporizes or fractures into very small fragments upon device detonation and residual material therefrom does not contribute to false alarms during follow up mine detector sweeps. In the preferred embodiment the gas check plate is made of aluminum and may be preferably about 0.07 to about 0.08 inches thick.

Optionally as shown in in additional to the gas check plate in this case a flat gas check plate is illustrated an additional layer or layers of material may also be included between the explosive and the fragments in the form of a shock attenuation buffer . Such a shock attenuation buffer may manufactured of a plastic such as polystyrene or similar material which may be arranged and or selected to decrease the strength of the explosive shock wave to thereby promote the structural integrity of the fragments . This shock attenuation buffer is similar to the polystyrene spacer in U.S. Pat. No. 7 182 011B2 or U.S. Pat. No. 6 363 828 which spacer works to mitigate shock load. In an alternate embodiment the material of the gas check plate may be selected to perform the functions of both the gas check plate and shock attenuation buffer.

As discussed above the array of fragments gas check plate plus the optional shock attenuation buffer are preferably all integrated into the puck which as mentioned above and shown in may be flat the flat gas check plate helping to facilitate ease of construction. Or advantageously to enhance the area of overburden penetrated by the spherical harc fragments as shown in a curved gas check plate may be used contained within a puck having a correspondingly curved rear end which curved gas check plate and enclosing puck is oriented in a convex manner with respect to the explosive . Both flat and curved puck designs can provide similar levels of penetration performance however as stated the curved puck shown in generates a similar dispersion pattern with half of the standoff of the flat puck shown in . So with a flat gas check plate and a 10 inch standoff the 8 inch diameter uncertainty region was filled with fragment impacts. However using the curved gas check plate and correspondingly curved puck similar fragment coverage was realized with a 5 inch standoff. If a curved gas check plate and puck is to be used in a preferred embodiment the curved gas check plate may be constructed have a curvature approximately corresponding to about a 1.7 to 1.8 inch radius.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the puck may be manufactured by several alternate means. A simple fabrication method which may be suitable for fabrication at the depot level may include inserting the gas check plate in the appropriate orientation in a sacrificial cylindrical mold of approximately the same diameter as the gas check plate covering the gas check plate with an array of spherical fragments filling the mold with epoxy or other plastic material or a resin to more than cover the spheres allowing the plastic or resin to cure extract the assembly from the mold milling or otherwise removing any surface imperfections to obtain a smooth surface about the puck . The particular epoxy or other plastic material or resin may be clear or opaque.

As generally shown in and discussed above the explosive is pressed into the interior of the tubular housing so that it occupies the majority of the space therein and is proximate to the closed end . The puck is then inserted so that the back side is intimately in contact with the explosive surface . A plastic explosive such as composition C 4 upon detonation imparted the desired velocity without any spalling of the hard spherical fragments which fragments penetrated the overburden penetrated any anti personnel mine therein and disable it. Similar plastic explosives such as PE4 Semtex or the like are also useful in the current invention. However care must be taken that an alternate explosive and quantity of that explosive not result in a higher particle velocity which pushes past the hydrodynamic limit or a lower particle velocity that is not sufficient to penetrate the overburden or cause an excessive shock loading on the spherical fragments which may cause them to spall.

The subject inventive anti mine device may be provided fully assembled or as inert parts in kit form no explosive or hazardous material included to simplifying shipment with the explosive to be loaded from available supplies in the operational environment on site prior to use or deployment. This also precludes the cost delay and overall necessity of qualifying an energetic component. Whether the explosive is loaded in a manufacturing environment or in the operational environment the explosive should be pressed into the tubular housing so that the surface of the explosive that is proximate to the puck is substantially in the same shape as the back side of the puck ensuring that no void forms in the pressed explosive. See This can be accomplished with an appropriately shaped plug or press which may be machine operated or may be attached to a manually operated pressing mechanism or the press may be used by hand. Good results may be achieved by pressing the explosive in approximately 25 gram increments and with the final portion pressed into place with a plug shaped corresponding to the back of the puck .

The amount of explosive in the present invention is critical since it governs the velocity of the fragments which must be kept within the 500 1400 m s range. If excessive explosive is used the excessive velocity of the fragments will cause them to penetrate hydro dynamically rather than as rigid bodies which will substantially degrade the penetration performance of the fragments through the overfill material. In the preferred embodiment a total of 125 190 preferably 150 to 190 more preferably 170 to 190 grams of C4 explosive should propel the most preferred approximately 45 to 50 each most preferably about inch generally spherical tungsten carbide fragment projectiles at this velocity range. A most preferable quantity of about 180 to 185 grams of C4 should propel these projectiles at an optimal velocity to maximize rigid body penetration distance.

As shown in and the aperture in the closed end of the tubular housing may include additional means of securing the initiating means in place which may include a hollow cylinder extending from the aperture where the hollow of said cylinder aligns with the aperture and may retain and secure a portion of the initiating means. The hollow cylinder may also be threaded about its exterior surface and may be slotted and a non sparking mechanical fastener such as a nylon or plastic nut may be used to tighten the threeded and slotted cylinder about the initiating means.

An initiator means is provided as a means of detonating the explosive . The means of initiation may be detonation cord shock tube blasting caps electric detonators etc. The initiation means may be a detonation train such as a blasting cap to detonation cord to a lead pellet to the main explosive charge. However each explosive interface offers the potential for failure to propagate the explosive wave. In particular air gaps between a lead pellet and explosive and a detonation cord and lead pellet may lead to detonation failures. In an alternate embodiment an electric blasting cap may be embedded within the explosive thereby simplifying the explosive train and improving reliability.

As shown in an initiating means which is inserted in the aperture in the closed end of the tubular housing may be substantially flush with the inside surface of the closed end or the initiating means may advantageously protrude into the interior of the tubular housing allowing more contact area with the explosive. If the initiating means protrudes into the explosive and is thus to be embedded in the explosive an appropriately shaped well in the explosive proximate to the aperture should be provided. See . This well can be formed for example either when packing the explosive by having a temporary rod in place during explosive pressing i.e. packing around the rod or by removal of explosive after packing by mean such as drilling with a non reactive drill bit. If a temporary rod is used during explosive loading extra care may be required to insure complete packing around the plug for the initiating means .

Although the systems and methods of the present disclosure have been described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof the present disclosure is not limited thereby. Indeed the exemplary embodiments are implementations of the disclosed systems and methods are provided for illustrative and non limitative purposes. Changes modifications enhancements and or refinements to the disclosed systems and methods may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure.

