---

title: Controlling client access to email responsive to email class levels
abstract: A class level of an email is determined responsive to defined rules for email classification. Client access to the email is then controlled responsive to the class level. One of a plurality of client authentication modes may be selected for authentication of the client responsive to the class level. The class level of the email may be determined responsive to an operational use of the email, a known keyword being present in content of the email, a source address of the email, a number of destination addresses of the email, an addressed resource of a user selectable link that is contained in a body of the email, characteristics of earlier email that the client deleted without reading, and/or various other rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935768&OS=08935768&RS=08935768
owner: CA, Inc.
number: 08935768
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
With the ever increasing role email serves in people s lives as a central source of aggregation of account information a compromised email account can result in extensive loss of personal financial information. For example users accounts with Google s Gmail service have been compromised which resulted in identity theft and financial theft from those users. Google has attempted to reduce the vulnerability of their Gmail service by allowing users to opt in for multi factor authentication which provides an increased level of account security for its users. However many users are reluctant to activate such multi factor authentication because of the inconvenience and access limitations that are arise.

Multi factor authentication is as a security approach that requires the user of a system to provide more than one form of verification in order to prove their identity and allow access to the system. Multi factor authentication takes advantage of a combination of several factors of authentication three such factors include verification by something a user knows such as a user ID and password something the user has such as a smart card or a security token and something the user is such as the use of biometrics . Due to their increased complexity authentication systems that use a multi factor authentication configuration are harder to compromise than ones using a single factor.

Google s multi factor email authentication process requires a user to provide a user ID and password combination along with a device based code e.g. SMS text message which provides information that is used during the web based authentication process. A user s mobile terminal can be operated to generate an application unique password which is communicated to the email server for combining with other information provided by the user to authenticate the user. A user is therefore denied access to the user s Gmail account when the user doesn t have present access to a particular operational mobile terminal such as when the user is away from the mobile terminal the mobile terminal has a dead battery or the has been misplaced or lost. When another person obtains control of the user s mobile terminal the user s Gmail account becomes vulnerable to compromise depending upon the strength of the user s password and the user s ability to access Google s authentication dashboard to disable the misplaced lost mobile terminal from further use in the authentication process. When the user is unable to access Google s authentication dashboard in a timely manner after loss of the mobile terminal or is unaware that another person has gained control insufficient account protection may be provided.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to controlling access to email responsive to class level of the email.

In one embodiment a class level of an email is determined responsive to defined rules for email classification. Client access to the email is then controlled responsive to the class level.

The class level of the email may be determined responsive to an operational use of the email a known keyword being present in content of the email a source address of the email a number of destination addresses of the email an addressed resource of a user selectable link that is contained in a body of the email characteristics of earlier email that the client deleted without reading characteristics of earlier email that the client saved in a storage folder and or various other rules disclosed herein that have been established learned for determining the class level of an email.

One of a plurality of client authentication modes may be selected for authentication of the client responsive to the class level. One email class level may require authentication of a client identifier and a password combination from the client for access while another email class level may require authentication of the client identifier and the password combination from the client and further authentication of a security token from a client device. Another email class level may require authentication of the client identifier and the password combination from the client and further authentication of biometric data of the client. Still another email class level may require authentication of the client identifier and the password combination from the client and further authentication of a present location of a client device. Re authentication of the client may be required at defined time intervals to maintain continued access to email having a defined class level. Other email class based authentication modes are disclosed herein.

Related computer program products methods and apparatuses are disclosed. It is noted that aspects described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated in different embodiments although not specifically described relative thereto. That is all embodiments and or features of any embodiments can be combined in any way and or combination. Moreover other computer program products methods and apparatuses according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional computer program products methods and apparatuses be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Embodiments of the present disclosure will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. Other embodiments may take many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As explained above some email service providers enable users to activate multi factor authentication to increase the level of security processes that are involved in controlling access to their email. However multi factor authentication may undesirably burden the user s access to email and unnecessarily restrict the user s access to email. One or more embodiments disclosed herein may arise based on the present realization that such multi factor authentication approaches control the access to an email account without regard to any characteristics of the particular email that is being handled by that email account. At least some email and for some users most email would not be considered sufficiently sensitive e.g. confidential to make a higher factor authentication desirable for controlling access to that email. Instead a user may desire to be provided access to non sensitive or lower sensitive level email using a less burdensome reduced security level factor of authentication and desire to be provided access to higher sensitive level email using a higher security level factor of authentication.

Therefore in some embodiments email is classified into levels of varying sensitivity classes with each of the levels of sensitivity class being associated with different rules that are used to control client access to that sensitivity class level of email. This approach can allow users to have easier access to low sensitive emails through less secure authentication steps and be provided higher levels of security for higher sensitive email through more secure authentication process steps.

By way of a non limiting illustrative example a user can define two passwords for the user s email account 1 a lower sensitivity password and 2 a more complex e.g. lengthier more random content password etc. higher sensitivity password or other higher level of authentication. A user can define that lower sensitive level emails have certain characteristics including newsletters emails from family and other defined characteristics. For these lower sensitivity level emails the user can access them by logging in using only the lower sensitivity password. However for higher sensitivity level emails which do not have the defined characteristics of the low sensitivity level emails the user would be required to enter the higher sensitivity password or a combination of both the lower sensitivity password and the higher sensitivity password or other higher level of authentication to access those emails.

In this approach the level of multi factor authentication is controlled based on the class of email that is to be accessed. One user email account may contain a plurality of different defined classes of email and each different class of email may have different defined rules that control the user s access to that class of email.

An email is received through the network interface by an email receiver and an email class determiner determines the class level of the email responsive to established rules for email classification . The email can be stored in memory with an indication of the determined class level.

Alternatively as shown in and email sorter can store up the email in one of the plurality email queues to N in the memory that is selected responsive to the determined class level. For example email that are determined to correspond to a first class level are stored in a first class email queue email that are determine a course on the second class level are stored in a second class email queue and so on with email that are determined to correspond to a N th class level are stored in a corresponding N th class email queue N where N is a plural number . The email may thereby be sorted among a plurality of different email storage queues in the memory .

Clients can access the stored email via email access requests transmitted by the client devices and or other network nodes through the data network the network interface and a client interface . The client interface may for example correspond to an application programming interface that is provided by the email server for interfacing to an email application e.g. Microsoft Outlook web browser interface etc. on the client devices . An email access controller controls client access to stored email responsive to class based rules that have been established for email access .

The rules for email classification may include but are not limited to one or more of the rules illustrated in the rules repository of .

In one embodiment an operational use by a service provider system of the email can be determined and the class level of the email can be determined based on that operational use e.g. password reset username reminder account setup general marketing materials etc. . One rule can define a class level that is to be associated with email relating to resetting a client password for a client account e.g. email account shopping account financial account etc. . Another rule can define a class level that is to be associated with email relating to reminding or resetting a username for an account and or an account identifier. Another rule can define a class level that is to be associated with email relating to setting up establishing a client account. Another rule can define a class level that is to be associated with email relating to general marketing of products and or services in which no sensitive client information is contained. As can be appreciated the varying levels of client sensitive information contained in the various different operational uses of email can be associated with different levels of classes so that access to the different types of email can be controlled according to different authentication processes. For example email relating to general marketing may be accessed with a less secure client authentication process then email relating to password reset username reminder and account setup.

In another embodiment the textual content of the email can be inspected to identify presence of a known keyword and the class level of the email can be determined responsive to the known keyword. The rules can associate the known keywords with different class levels. The keywords may be defined by a client e.g. a client provided list of keywords an email service provider and or an application developer. The keywords may alternatively or additionally be determined using a learning process e.g. a Bayesian classification process . For example keywords may be learned from content of email that is classified by other processes e.g. may a client email service provider etc . Keywords may be indicative of sensitive account information e.g. passwords user IDs account permissions settings purchasing e.g. credit card information purchase confirmations etc. which can be associated by rules with one or more email classes that will trigger more restrictive control of access to emails containing those keywords.

In another embodiment a source address of the email can be determined and the class level the email committed terminal responsive to the source address. Thus for example emails from certain individuals and or businesses can be associated with differing email classes based upon the rules. Emails from unknown individuals and or businesses can be associated with an email class that triggers a lower level of client authentication while emails from certain defined individuals and or businesses can be associated with an email class that triggers a higher level of client authentication to provide more restrictive control of access to those emails. The rules associating defined source addresses and or types of source addresses e.g. associated with individuals business etc to different class levels may be defined by a client an email service provider and or an application developer.

In another embodiment the number of destination addresses of the email can be determined and the class level of email can be determined responsive to the number of destination addresses. Thus for example email that is sent to at least a threshold number of recipients may be determined to be less sensitive than email that is sent to less than a threshold number of recipients. Accordingly the number of recipients of an email can be used an indication of the level of sensitivity that a client would attribute to that email. Access to the less sensitive email can be controlled according to a lower level of client authentication.

In another embodiment the presence of a user selectable link that is contained in a body of the email is identified. An address of a resource that is linked to the user selectable link is identified. The class level of the email is determined responsive to the address of the resource. For example an email that contains a user selectable link addressed to a business website at which the client has an account can be associated with an email class that trigger a higher level of client authentication for access to that email. In contrast an email that contains a user selectable link addressed to an unknown website at which the client has no known association can be associated with an email class that triggers a lower level of client authentication for access to that email.

Email that is deleted without reading may be classified differently than email that a client reads before deleting so that access to those different types of email can be controlled differently. When a client deletes an earlier email without reading it characteristics of the earlier email can be identified and those characteristics can be used to determine the class level of a presently received email. The characteristics that can be identified can include the source address of the email keywords contained in the subject line of the email keywords came contained in the body of the email etc. Thus for example when a client deletes an email from a particular business without reading it future email that is received from the same business can be associated with an email class that triggers a lower level of client authentication for access to those emails.

Similarly when a client deletes an earlier email within a defined time after reading the email characteristics of the earlier email committed identified and those characteristics can be used to determine the class level of a presently received email. The characteristics that can be identified can include the source address of the email keywords contained in the subject line of the email keywords came contained in the body of the email etc. Thus for example when a client deletes an email from a particular business within a defined time e.g. 10 seconds after reading it future email that is received from the same business can be associated with an email class that triggers a lower level of client authentication for access to those emails.

Email that that a client considered sufficiently important to cause the client to store the email into a storage folder e.g. any one of available storage folders or defined ones of the storage folders may be classified differently than email that a client does not store into a storage folder so that access to those different classes of email can be controlled differently. When a client saves an earlier email into a storage folder characteristics of the earlier email can be identified and those characteristics can be used to determine the class level of a presently received email. The characteristics that can be identified can include other destination addresses of the email the source address of the email keywords contained in the subject line of the email keywords came contained in the body of the email etc. Thus for example when a client saves an email from a particular business into a defined storage folder future email that is received from the same business can be associated with an email class that triggers a higher level of client authentication for access to those emails. Different folders may be associated with different class levels so that characteristics of email that are stored into different folders generate rules that associate those characteristics with different email claims for classification of future received email.

Although various embodiments have been described in the context of the rules illustrated in other rules may be used to determine the classification for received email and those rules may be defined by for example a client an email service provider an application developer and or learned over time.

The rules for email classification may include but are not limited to one or more of the rules illustrated in the rules repository of .

In one embodiment the steps by which a client is authenticated for access to a computer service are controlled responsive to the email class level. In one embodiment one of a plurality of client authentication modes is selected responsive to the class level determined for the email. The client is authenticated responsive to the selected one of the plurality of client authentication modes. Client access to the email is then controlled responsive to the authentication of the client.

In the non limiting example rules of a first class of email triggers selection of an authentication mode that doesn t involve client authentication e.g. any email access request to email of the first class will be allowed access . In contrast a second class of email triggers selection of an authentication mode that requires proper authentication of a client ID and password that is received as part of the email access request from the client e.g. client or client device completes a log in process to gain access to the client s email account on the email server . A third class of email triggers selection of an authentication mode that requires a combination of the proper authentication of a client ID and password and further authentication of a security token from the client device e.g. an identifier of the client device an application on the client device etc. . A fourth class of email triggers selection of an authentication mode that requires a combination of the proper authentication of a client ID and password and further authentication of biometric data of the client. A fifth class of email triggers selection of an authentication mode that requires a combination of the proper authentication of a present location e.g. the present geographic location of the client device matching a known approved geographic location for the client the identifier of a present edge node providing network service to the client device matching a known approved identifier etc. of the client device . Although five example classes have been illustrated in and explained herein any plural number of email classes may be provided. Moreover any combination of the example email classes and associated authentication modes and or other classes and authentication modes may be used.

In another embodiment a client is authenticated and the client s access to the email is controlled responsive to the authentication of the client. The client is then re authenticated responsive to expiration of a time interval since the authentication of the client. The client s access to the email is further controlled responsive to the re authentication of the client. The time interval is controlled responsive to the class level. For example a client may be granted access without a time constraint to email having a first class. However the client may be required to be re authenticated e.g. reenter a user ID and password combination etc. at a defined periodic rate to maintain access to email having a second class. The time interval that triggers the re authentication can be controlled responsive to the class level. A more sensitive class level of email may require more frequency re authentication of the client e.g. every 10 minutes than less sensitive class level of email e.g. every hour .

In another embodiment the type of client device that is permitted access to the email is controlled responsive to the class level. For example a sensitive class level of email may be restricted to being accessed by non mobile land line network based device e.g. home computers with cable modem DSL modem network access while a less sensitive class level of email may be accessed from any type of client device e.g. mobile and non mobile client devices having WiFi network access cellular network access satellite network access land line modem network access etc .

Although various embodiments have been described in the context of the rules illustrated in other rules may be used to control client access to email based on email classes and those rules may be defined by for example a client an email service provider an application developer and or learned over time.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be illustrated and described herein in any of a number of patentable classes or context including any new and useful process machine manufacture or composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented in entirely hardware entirely software including firmware resident software micro code etc. or combining software and hardware implementation that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module component or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an appropriate optical fiber with a buffered repeater a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JavaScript Scala Smalltalk Eiffel JADE Emerald C C VB.NET Python or the like conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language Visual Basic Fortran 2003 Perl COBOL 2002 PHP ABAP dynamic programming languages such as Python Ruby and Groovy or other programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider or in a cloud computing environment or offered as a service such as a Software as a Service SaaS .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable instruction execution apparatus create a mechanism for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that when executed can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions when stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which when executed cause a computer to implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable instruction execution apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatuses or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various aspects of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of any means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any disclosed structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The aspects of the disclosure herein were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

