---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable mediums for performing workflow credential management in a converged infrastructure system
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable mediums for performing workflow credential information management in a converged infrastructure system (CIS) are disclosed. According to one example, the method includes, at a credential management interface module (CMIM) associated with a CIS, identifying one or more converged infrastructure elements (CIEs) included in the CIS that are associated with a workflow, obtaining credential information sets for each of the one or more CIEs associated with the workflow, and executing the workflow using the obtained credential information sets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325688&OS=09325688&RS=09325688
owner: VCE COMPANY, LLC
number: 09325688
owner_city: Richardson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
The subject matter described herein relates to managing credential information. More specifically the subject matter relates to methods systems and computer readable mediums performing workflow credential management in a converged infrastructure system CIS .

A converged infrastructure system CIS is a single optimized computing solution that comprises a plurality of component devices such as blade or rack mounted compute devices i.e. servers data storage devices networking equipment and software. Notably each of these CIS components may be supplied by a different vendor and may have different and sometimes proprietary methods of administrative access e.g. each component device is preconfigured with unique administrative access methods and credentials . A specific problem faced by many CIS administrators is that during typical workflow operations maintenance windows or administrative sessions the many components of the CIS need to be configured securely with authentication and authorization systems providing access to the component and or a subset of its functionality. For example one or more credential information sets may be needed to gain access to the systems and components required for a successful workflow execution. Determining which credentials are needed and ensuring that the requisite credentials are available to the workflow execution is a central problem that requires administrators to have a well defined and highly secured system in place for managing those credentials. In some instances a system administrator assigned to manage device access credential information i.e. passwords cryptographic keys certificates and other means of access may do so by using a software spreadsheet or handwritten data sheet. One potential problem associated with such a manner of recordkeeping is that credential information can become well known inaccurate and less secure over a period of time. Presently software exists for credential information storage purposes but such software applications are not configured to perform centralized workflow credential management. Namely providing credential information for the required access to a user associated with the workflow may require the administrator to access each CIS component device involved in the workflow to view or change the access rights individually. Such manual efforts are extremely time consuming potentially insecure and inconvenient to system administrators.

Methods systems and computer readable mediums for performing workflow credential management in a converged infrastructure system are disclosed. According to one embodiment the method includes at a credential management interface module CMIM associated with a CIS identifying one or more converged infrastructure elements CIEs included in the CIS that are associated with a workflow obtaining credential information sets for each of the one or more CIEs associated with the workflow and executing the workflow using the obtained credential information sets.

According to one system the system comprises at least one processor memory and a CMIM. The CMIM is configured to identify one or more CIEs associated with a workflow obtain credential information sets for the one or more CIEs associated with the workflow and execute the workflow using the obtained credential information sets.

The subject matter described herein discloses methods systems and computer readable mediums for performing workflow credential management in a converged infrastructure system. As used herein a CIS such as a Vblock System from VCE Company LLC can comprise multiple converged infrastructure elements CIEs in a preconfigured or prepackaged computing platform. For example a CIS can comprise a single computing platform unit associated with racks of physical CIEs and related software for performing virtualization and or other information technology IT functions. In some embodiments each CIE associated with a CIS can comprise a compute component a software component a networking component a hardware component or a firmware component. For example a CIS can comprise data storage devices servers networking equipment and software for managing physical resources and or virtualized resources e.g. virtual servers .

In accordance with some embodiments of the subject matter disclosed herein a CMIM module can be integrated into a CIS to manage credential information sets that are necessary to perform a workflow. As used herein a credential information set can include authorization and or authentication information e.g. access passwords access cookies access tokens cryptographic keys etc. pertaining to CIEs or resources utilized by a CIS. The CMIM can be configured to request a list of CIEs that will be involved with the workflow. In some embodiments the CMIM can comprise a component organization module COM designed to organize the list of CIEs according to the interdependencies of the CIEs within the CIS. As used herein CIS component or CIS component device or CIE are synonymous terms that refer to a component or element included within a CIS. The CMIM may subsequently query the repository again for credential information associated with the CIEs and then correlate e.g. match the credentials with the CIEs . A visual representation of the credentials and CIEs can also be generated to provide convenient access and management of credential information used to perform the workflow. As used herein the term workflow may refer to a work assignment or project that is associated with a process comprising numerous actions or steps. In addition a workflow may involve or utilize multiple CIEs in a CIS.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the subject matter described herein examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In some embodiments CIS can be configured to provide data center functionality cloud service functionality and or other IT functionality which can support a vast number of software workloads. CIS can also be configured to communicate with various other entities such as other CISs network nodes and users. For example user e.g. a human operator or an automated system may use an application programming interface API a command line interface or web based graphical user interface to login to CIS to request a credential information set e.g. one or more passwords or credentials for a particular CIE.

In some embodiments CIS can comprise a CIS manager e.g. a CIS management module a repository virtualized infrastructure and or physical infrastructure . CIS manager may be any suitable entity for managing the operation of CIS . CIS manager may be configured to communicate with various CIEs such as virtual resources physical resources and or software for managing various CIEs. For example CIS manager may be configured to manage performance resource utilization levels and other aspects associated with virtualized infrastructure and or physical infrastructure . In some embodiments CIS manager comprises VCE Vision Intelligent Operations software and or firmware. In some embodiments CIS manager may be provisioned with a credential management module CMIM .

Virtualized infrastructure can comprise a virtualization environment configured to simulate components of a computing device e.g. a processor system memory and a storage device for executing one or more virtual machines VMs . For example each of VM VM and VM may be configured to perform various functions and or services such as web server functions or cloud application services and may interact with various nodes components and or users.

In some embodiments virtualized infrastructure may be associated with one or more virtual entities. Each virtual entity can comprise one or more CIS or portions therein. In some embodiments virtualization manager may allow logical entities to be created deleted or modified using an API a graphical user interface GUI or a command line interface CLI . Virtualization manager may be any suitable entity e.g. software executing in a virtual machine for managing aspects associated with virtualized infrastructure . In some embodiments virtualization manager may be configured to provide data center management through one or more communications interfaces. For example virtualization manager may communicate with one or more third party management tools using APIs.

Physical infrastructure can comprise hardware resources such as network components compute servers sometimes referred to as hosts and one or more storage area networks SAN such as SAN . In some embodiments one or more file share storage FSS systems not shown can be utilized to provide file system level access to a CIS across a local area network LAN . Hardware resources may be communicatively connected to various other components in CIS and other entities. Hardware resources can be configured to be used by one or more virtual entities. In some embodiments network components e.g. network switches may be configured to enable communication between the resources within the CIS. For example server and SAN may be used in implementing VM and VM and server and SAN may be used in implementing VM and virtualization manager .

Hardware resource manager may be any suitable entity e.g. software executing in a virtual machine for managing aspects associated with physical infrastructure . In some embodiments hardware resource manager may be configured to provision hardware resources via one or more communications interfaces. For example hardware resource manager may provision hardware resources for implementing one or more virtual entities in virtualized infrastructure .

Repository may comprise any data storage unit e.g. a database or plurality of databases that may be configured to function as a centralized administrative password and credential storage unit for the CIEs of CIS . Although depicts repository as a local data storage unit residing on CIS repository can also be embodied as a data storage unit located at a public distributed content site on a local proxy server in a customer s environment or on a different CIS without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

In some embodiments CMIM can be configured to manage a system comprising multiple sub system tiers. illustrates an exemplary configuration of a credential management interface module managing a three tiered system generally designated in accordance with embodiments of the subject matter depicted herein. It should be noted that the exemplary configuration presented in can be conveniently applied to larger systems that comprises N tiers of sub systems.

In some embodiments CMIM can be configured to operate as a standalone virtual machine or function as a module embedded in a software entity e.g. as shown in . Furthermore CMIM can be configured to manage credential information sets associated with the converged infrastructure elements in the CIS using a plurality of interfaces. In some embodiments CIEs can include the components of the physical infrastructure and the components of virtualized infrastructure shown in .

In some embodiments a user interface UI included within CMIM can be used by a system administrator to replace and or renew credential information sets such as access credentials. In some embodiments a user interface may include a graphical user interface GUI and or a command line interface CLI . For example a GUI can comprise user interface UI elements such as pull down menus or push buttons configured to give a system administrator the option to change the access credentials associated with the CIEs and resources of CIS . Exemplary methods in which the UI and CMIM are utilized by a system administrator are discussed in further detail below.

It will be appreciated that is for illustrative purposes and that various nodes their locations and or their functions as described above in relation to may be changed altered added or removed.

In some embodiments network component tier can include network switches configured to handle network traffic for closed networks and designed to transport data packets internally within the network. Compute component tier may comprise computer software firmware or hardware components. In some embodiments the compute tier may also be designed to create and run software based virtual machines via a hypervisor. As used herein the terms hypervisor or hypervisor element can refer to computer software firmware and or hardware that is responsible for creating and running virtual machines. In some embodiments a hypervisor can be configured to function as a host operating system configured to host guest operating systems where the guest operating system can function within the hypervisor as a virtual machine and provide a running platform to software applications. Furthermore storage component tier can be a data storage system configured to provide storage services to multiple clients including a hypervisor and a virtual machine. In some embodiments COM can be used to visually link the systems and CIEs associated with component tiers together as said systems and CIEs are arranged within CIS . CMIM can subsequently correlate the systems and CIEs with credential information retrieved from repository . Administrator can be used to access the linked credential information via GUI or a CLI.

In some embodiments CMIM can be configured to query repository for component information that identifies one or more CIEs e.g. hardware and or software components in component tiers that are involved or associated with a particular workflow. In some embodiments CMIM may use COM to visually display the system CIEs via GUI e.g. see for an exemplary GUI display . For example COM may generate a display of the system CIEs included in component tiers that are used by a particular workflow. In some embodiments a system administrator may also utilize the GUI to instruct CMIM to submit a credential request to repository in order to retrieve one or more credential information sets for the respective one or more CIEs e.g. components in component tiers that are associated with the workflow . In some embodiments the credential information set can include any type of authorization and or authentication information such as authorization and authentication information pertaining to network switch configurations virtualization layer credentials and the like.

In some embodiments CMIM may be configured to generate a visual representation that links CIEs with respective credential information e.g. see description of below . In some embodiments API interface can comprise a user interface element that system administrator may use to request credential information associated with a particular workflow. In some embodiments CMIM may also utilize API interface e.g. a RESTful API to access credential information stored in repository . Once a particular workflow configuration has been selected and the credential information sets associated with the designated workflow have been obtained and matched with the appropriate CIEs COM can generate a visual representation e.g. a CIE topology map illustrated in that arranges the CIEs involved with the workflow and associates the CIEs to corresponding credential information. For example the CIEs and the associated credential information can be linked together e.g. a credential chain as configured in the workflow. In addition based on the sensitivity of the credential information involved with performing the workflow industry standard security measures such as high grade encryption of the data can be utilized to provide protection to the credential information. Furthermore a proper Role Based Access Control RBAC system can be used to ensure that only authorized users and or roles have access to the credential information.

In some embodiments a workflow can be created through a set of methods and or functions provided via one or more APIs. Data e.g. CIE information associated with the workflow can be acquired from various sources e.g. a software system data model or a CIS management tool via a GUI or entered manually through a command line interface. Likewise creation of the workflow can be performed in a repository associated with the CIS through either the GUI or the CLI. For example a user e.g. a workflow creator may generate a workflow by initially obtaining e.g. pulling the data needed for the creation of a components list from a software data model or a CIS manager tool. Exemplary data used to generate a workflow can include metric data or other data stored in a CIS manager. Afterwards the user may use the acquired data to generate the components list utilizing an API interface e.g. a RESTful web service interface . The steps of a workflow can be determined by the user e.g. a CIS administrator using the GUI or CLI or be generated automatically by a program comprising one or more metric data processing algorithms. In some embodiments one or more CIEs e.g. CIEs associated with workflow may be identified by CMIM by querying a repository e.g. repository . Credential information associated with each identified CIE e.g. CIEs may also be obtained by CMIM from repository . In some embodiments modules e.g. CMIM CIS manager and the like associated with CIS can execute or perform workflow to enable CIS to function as a cloud service platform. Furthermore a visual representation can be generated by CMIM to present CIEs and credential information associated with CIEs to be viewed by a system administrator. The visual representation may visually link the CIEs to their respective credential information sets and may display the CIEs in a manner similar to which the CIEs are arranged and or positioned within the CIS. In some embodiments smaller workflows may be combined in the repository to form a larger workflow through a user interface e.g. GUI or CLI . In some embodiments credential information sets associated with a workflow can be stored separately e.g. in a local or remote software instance or in a separate repository associated with CMIM from the workflow to keep the credential information sets secure.

In some embodiments credential information related to each of the CIEs depicted in workflow can be retrieved from a repository by a CMIM accessed by a system administrator. For example by using a UI indicator e.g. a computer mouse pointer to select the graphical representation of CIE a system administrator can bring up a selection window for creating reading updating and or deleting credential information associated with CIE . In some embodiments the system administrator can use GUI to create new credential information such as assigning a new username and password pair to CIE by selecting a create option on selection window . Similarly the system administrator can remove a username and password pair from the existing credential information by selecting a delete option on selection window . Moreover selecting a read option can provide the system administrator with an overview of the credential information associated with CIE . The system administrator can also utilize selection window in GUI to update credential information associated with CIE via the update option. Although the use of selection window is shown in it is understood that other interactive UI elements may be utilized without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter. In some embodiments the system administrator may utilize GUI to update the credential information associated with all of the CIEs included in workflow by utilizing an update all UI element. Such a feature enables the system administrator to update or reset the access credentials with a single action. It should be noted that GUI can be configured to allow administrative access to a single administrator or other authorized operators or users at any one time. Such a feature can be used to prevent any potentially conflicting modifications made to the system by system administrators who have contemporaneous access.

In some embodiments compute component tier can include a hypervisor e.g. an ESXi hypervisor manufactured by VMware Incorporated of Palo Alto Calif. that may be configured to function as a host operating system and or a virtual machine that runs as one or more guest application e.g. operating system within the hypervisor. Similarly credential information that may be utilized to access the hypervisor can be displayed next to the components via display elements . For example the hypervisor may require an ESXi type credential that includes a username and associated password for access as shown in display element . In some embodiments compute component tier can be communicatively connected to storage component tier which may require a VNX type credential for access as shown in display element . In addition compute component tier can also be communicatively connected to virtualization software component tier . Virtualization software component tier can be configured to host virtual entities including a virtual machine a virtual server a virtual storage device a virtual port and or a virtual communications interface and can require a virtualization software specific credential as shown in display element .

At step the CMIM obtains credential information for each CIEs associated with the workflow. For example the CMIM may query the repository and utilize the obtained CIE information to request associated credential information that is needed to interact with each of the identified CIEs. Continuing with the example in step CMIM may be configured to obtain the credential information for each identified CIE e.g. CIEs associated with workflow from repository as shown in for example . As noted above the credential information for each CIE e.g. CIEs might be stored in one or more repositories accessible by CMIM . Furthermore it is understood that after CIE information and associated credential information sets have been obtained CMIM may also be configured to correlate or match each credential information sets with a respective CIE in preparation for executing a workflow generating a visual representation of CIEs within the CIS and or for providing other functions e.g. via APIs to access use and maintain multiple CIEs of a CIS.

At step CMIM is configured to execute the workflow using the obtained credential information. In this way a CIS might be configured to perform specific tasks and or to provide various services automatically without time consuming manual and or potentially error prone human interactions. Continuing the example in step in some embodiments modules e.g. CMIM CIS manager and the like associated with CIS are configured to execute workflow which enables CIS to function as a cloud service platform. More specifically automatic use of the obtained credential information for each CIE e.g. CIEs of workflow enables CIS modules such as CMIM and or CIS manager to automatically access manage configure provision and or deploy the various CIEs including software applications to provide cloud services for one or more remote users via network as shown in for example .

At step the CMIM is configured to generate a visual representation of the CIEs involved in the workflow along with each CIE s credential information. For example CMIM may generate a visual representation as shown in of CIEs and credential information for each of the CIEs to be viewed by a system administrator as discussed above. Such a visual representation may also include other information or metadata regarding each CIE each workflow and or other related information pertinent to configuring and executing a workflow in such an environment which is well known to those in the art. In some embodiments the visual representation may depict the CIEs in a manner in which the CIEs are arranged and or positioned within the CIS. Similarly credential information sets may be visually linked to correlated CIEs thereby creating a CIE topology map or some other visual display that provides a chain of access credentials required to perform the workflow selected by a system administrator.

As indicated above the subject matter described herein can be implemented in software in combination with hardware and or firmware. For example the subject matter described herein can be implemented in software executed by a processor. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein can be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable mediums suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory devices such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein can be located on a single device or computing platform or can be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms. As used herein the terms function or module refer to hardware firmware or software in combination with hardware and or firmware for implementing features described herein.

While the systems and methods have been described herein in reference to specific aspects features and illustrative embodiments it will be appreciated that the utility of the subject matter is not thus limited but rather extends to and encompasses numerous other variations modifications and alternative embodiments as will suggest themselves to those of ordinary skill in the field of the present subject matter based on the disclosure herein. Various combinations and sub combinations of the structures and features described herein are contemplated and will be apparent to a skilled person having knowledge of this disclosure. Any of the various features and elements as disclosed herein can be combined with one or more other disclosed features and elements unless indicated to the contrary herein. Correspondingly the subject matter as hereinafter claimed is intended to be broadly construed and interpreted as including all such variations modifications and alternative embodiments within its scope and including equivalents of the claims.

