---

title: Reputation based collaboration session
abstract: A method and computer system for determining a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. A determination is made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session is enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session is disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465505&OS=09465505&RS=09465505
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09465505
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130514
---
When a website such as a popular news site offers its readers a chance to contribute to a conversation e.g. a particular news story via e.g. video conferences commenting etc. there may be little to no controls for the website to limit users from contributing to the conversation. Some of the users may be disruptive and or may not contribute to the quality of the conversation. Additionally with so many news stories and so many different websites covering the same story participants may have a difficult time deciding which conversation in which to participate.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices comprises determining by a computing device a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a video conference session. A determination may be made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the video conference session. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part one or more of a number of users connected to the user a number of previous contributions by the user and a number of social actions associated with at least a portion of the number of previous contributions by the user. Access to the video conference session may be enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the video conference session. Access to the video conference session may be disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the video conference session.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices comprises determining by a computing device a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. A determination may be made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.

One or more of the following features may be included. Enabling access to the collaboration session may include providing an object that when selected requests that the user connect to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an author of a topic for the collaboration session. Determining the reputation of the author of the topic for the collaboration session may include determining whether a relationship exists between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The relationship may include a connection between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and the entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of users connected to the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of previous contributions by the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of social actions associated with at least a portion of the number of previous contributions by the user. Determining whether the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session may include comparing the reputation of the user with a reputation profile for the collaboration session.

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor and a memory configured to perform operations comprising determining a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. A determination may be made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.

One or more of the following features may be included. Enabling access to the collaboration session may include providing an object that when selected requests that the user connect to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an author of a topic for the collaboration session. Determining the reputation of the author of the topic for the collaboration session may include determining whether a relationship exists between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The relationship may include a connection between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and the entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of users connected to the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of previous contributions by the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of social actions associated with at least a portion of the number of previous contributions by the user. Determining whether the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session may include comparing the reputation of the user with a reputation profile for the collaboration session.

In another implementation a computer program product resides on a computer readable storage medium that has a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions cause the processor to perform operations comprising determining a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. A determination may be made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.

One or more of the following features may be included. Enabling access to the collaboration session may include providing an object that when selected requests that the user connect to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. A determination may be made of a reputation of an author of a topic for the collaboration session. Determining the reputation of the author of the topic for the collaboration session may include determining whether a relationship exists between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The relationship may include a connection between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and the entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of users connected to the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of previous contributions by the user. The reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of social actions associated with at least a portion of the number of previous contributions by the user. Determining whether the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session may include comparing the reputation of the user with a reputation profile for the collaboration session.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

When a website such as a popular news site offers its readers a chance to contribute to a conversation e.g. a particular news story via e.g. video conferences commenting etc. there may be little to no controls for the website to limit users from contributing to the conversation. Some of the users may be disruptive and or may not contribute to the quality of the conversation. Additionally with so many news stories and so many different websites covering the same story participants may have a difficult time deciding which conversation in which to participate. In some implementations as will be discussed in greater detail below using certain metrics to obtain a reputation of the creator of the conversation those who might be able to join the conversation may make a better informed decision as to whether they want to join the conversation. Similarly using certain metrics to obtain a reputation of those that might want to join the conversation the creator of the conversation may make a better informed decision as to who will be allowed to join the conversation.

Referring to there is shown reputation process that may reside on and may be executed by a computer e.g. computer which may be connected to a network e.g. network e.g. the internet or a local area network . Examples of computer and or one or more of the client electronic devices noted below may include but are not limited to a personal computer s a laptop computer s mobile computing device s a server computer a series of server computers a mainframe computer s or a computing cloud s . Computer may execute an operating system for example but not limited to Microsoft Windows Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Mac and OS X are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both .

As will be discussed below in greater detail reputation process may determine a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. A determination may be made whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be enabled if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Access to the collaboration session may be disabled if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.

The instruction sets and subroutines of reputation process which may be stored on storage device coupled to computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Computer may include a data store such as a database e.g. relational database object oriented database triplestore database etc. and may be located within any suitable memory location such as storage device coupled to computer . Any data described throughout the present disclosure may be stored in the data store. In some implementations computer may utilize a database management system such as but not limited to My Structured Query Language MySQL in order to provide multi user access to one or more databases such as the above noted relational database. The data store may also be a custom database such as for example a flat file database or an XML database. Any other form s of a data storage structure and or organization may also be used. Reputation process may be a component of the data store a stand alone application that interfaces with the above noted data store and or an applet application that is accessed via client applications . The above noted data store may be in whole or in part distributed in a cloud computing topology. In this way computer and storage device may refer to multiple devices which may also be distributed throughout the network.

Computer may execute a collaboration application e.g. collaboration application examples of which may include but are not limited to e.g. a web conferencing application a video conferencing application a voice over IP application a video over IP application or other application that allows for virtual meeting and or remote collaboration. Reputation process and or collaboration application may be accessed via client applications . Reputation process may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within collaboration application and or one or more of client applications . Collaboration application may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within reputation process and or one or more of client applications . One or more of client applications may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within reputation process and or collaboration application . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to e.g. a web conferencing application video conferencing application voice over IP application a video over IP application or other application that allow for virtual meeting and or remote collaboration a standard and or mobile web browser an email client application a textual and or a graphical user interface a customized web browser a plugin an Application Programming Interface API or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices coupled to client electronic devices may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices and or computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer e.g. client electronic device a laptop computer e.g. client electronic device a smart data enabled cellular phone e.g. client electronic device a notebook computer e.g. client electronic device a tablet not shown a server not shown a television not shown a smart television not shown a media e.g. video photo etc. capturing device not shown a personal computing device e.g. a watch not shown augmented reality displays and a dedicated network device not shown . Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Android Apple iOS Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system.

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of reputation process and vice versa . Accordingly reputation process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or reputation process .

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of collaboration application and vice versa . Accordingly collaboration application may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or collaboration application . As one or more of client applications reputation process and collaboration application taken singly or in any combination may effectuate some or all of the same functionality any description of effectuating such functionality via one or more of client applications reputation process collaboration application or combination thereof and any described interaction s between one or more of client applications reputation process collaboration application or combination thereof to effectuate such functionality should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

Users may access computer and reputation process e.g. using one or more of client electronic devices directly through network or through secondary network . Further computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line . Reputation process may include one or more user interfaces such as browsers and textual or graphical user interfaces through which users may access reputation process .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP 58 may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between client electronic device and WAP 58. Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

Some or all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers smart phones and other electronic devices to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection. Other forms of interconnection e.g. Near Field Communication NFC may also be used.

Referring also to there is shown a diagrammatic view of client electronic device . While client electronic device is shown in this figure this is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be a limitation of this disclosure as other configurations are possible. For example any computing device capable of executing in whole or in part reputation process may be substituted for client electronic device within examples of which may include but are not limited to computer and or client electronic devices .

Client electronic device may include a processor and or microprocessor e.g. microprocessor configured to e.g. process data and execute the above noted code instruction sets and subroutines. Microprocessor may be coupled via a storage adaptor not shown to the above noted storage device. An I O controller e.g. I O controller may be configured to couple microprocessor with various devices such as keyboard pointing selecting device e.g. mouse custom device e.g. device USB ports not shown and printer ports not shown . A display adaptor e.g. display adaptor may be configured to couple display e.g. CRT or LCD monitor s with microprocessor while network controller adaptor e.g. an Ethernet adaptor may be configured to couple microprocessor to the above noted network e.g. the Internet or a local area network .

As discussed above and referring also to reputation process may determine by a computing device a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session. Reputation process may determine whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Reputation process may enable access to the collaboration session if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. Reputation process may disable access to the collaboration session if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session.

Assume for example purposes only and referring at least to that website such as a website that posts online articles about news events has posted article about a recent event and has made at least a snippet of article available to the public via the Internet. In some implementations website may include a ranked list of one or more sources for each article in the news cluster e.g. other websites that may have posted an article about the same news story . Further assume in the example that the author of the article and or the administrator of the website wants to allow other users to be able to voice their opinion comment or discuss the article e.g. via a video chatting session . In the example further assume that the author wants to restrict such a discussion between those users that are likely to increase the quality of the discussion rather than those that are likely to be disruptive e.g. using profanity using hate speech etc. . One example technique to limit the discussion between those users that are likely to increase the quality of the discussion may be to use the reputation of the user as a qualifier to participate. For example in some implementations reputation process may determine by a computing device e.g. computer a reputation threshold requirement for participating in a collaboration session e.g. the video conferencing chatting session . For instance as will be discussed in greater detail below if a user e.g. user wants to contribute to the discussion about the article the author of the article e.g. user and or the administrator of the website may via reputation process set a reputation threshold requirement that user and other users may need to have before such participation may be permitted.

In some implementations reputation process may determine whether a reputation of a user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. For instance the reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of users connected to the user. For example user may be connected to e.g. followed by and or following via e.g. an example RSS feed or the like e.g. 50 users and 100 users respectively. Other values and or ranges e.g. 100 1 000 10 000 etc. may also be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. In the example the more users that follow user and or the more users that user follows the higher the reputation of user . Conversely the fewer users that follow user and or the fewer users that user follows the lower the reputation of user . In some implementations the reputation of user may be increased if user is followed by the author of the article e.g. user and or the source posting the article by a factor greater than if user were followed by a user that was not user or the source posting the article. Similarly the reputation of user may be increased if user is following the author of the article e.g. user and or the source posting the article by a factor greater than if user were following a user that was not user or the source posting the article.

In some implementations the reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of previous contributions by the user. For example user may have previously contributed to one or more other news articles e.g. 50 times. In the example the more contributions made by user the higher the reputation of user . Conversely the fewer contributions made by user the lower the reputation of user . Contributions may include but are not limited to e.g. commenting on an article participating in video collaboration sessions posting articles etc. In some implementations the reputation may be dependent upon the topic of the contribution. For example if the article topic is pets then only those contributions made by user about pets or a related topic such as animals may be included in the determination of the reputation of user at least for the topic of pets . In the example if user had contributed 50 times total but only 40 of those 50 contributions were about pets then reputation process may determine the reputation of user based upon at least in part previous contributions. In some implementations the total number of previous contributions may be used by reputation process to determine the reputation of user .

In some implementations the reputation of the user may be based upon at least in part a number of social actions associated with at least a portion of the number of previous contributions by the user. For instance continuing with the above example other users may have e.g. liked shared reshared commented upon etc. one or more of the previous contributions made by user . In the example the more social interactions made by other users for contributions made by user the higher the reputation of user . Conversely the fewer social interactions made by other users for contributions made by user the lower the reputation of user . In some implementations the number of social interactions made by other users for contributions made by user may be topic specific. For example if user had contributed 50 times total but only 40 of those 50 contributions were about pets then reputation process may determine the reputation of user at least for the topic of pets based upon at least in part only those social interactions made by other users for the previous contributions. In some implementations the total number of social interactions made by other users to all previous contributions of user may be used by reputation process to determine the reputation of user .

Other examples of things that may effect the reputation of user may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For example other users may rate the quality of the previous contributions made by user e.g. whether abuse was reported for the previous contributions how well the previous contributions constructively added to the quality of the article etc. which may be aggregated as at least a portion of the reputation of user . As such the description of using previous contributions the number of social interactions upon those previous contributions and the number of users connected to user should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of this disclosure.

In some implementations determining whether the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session may include reputation process comparing the reputation of the user with a reputation profile for the collaboration session. For instance reputation process may provide the author of article e.g. user and or the administrator of website with a reputation profile that may be used when determining the reputation threshold requirement for participating in the collaboration session. For example and referring at least to an example user interface of reputation profile for article e.g. provided via reputation process client application collaboration application or combination thereof is shown. In the example and continuing with the above example reputation profile may enable user to establish the minimum reputation requirements for user and or other users to participate in the above noted collaboration session. For instance as established by user reputation profile may require that user be followed by a minimum number of users before being allowed to participate in the collaboration session which may be input by user via e.g. cursor and drop down menu . In the example as established by user reputation profile may require that user be followed by user followed by the source of article following user and or following the source of article or combination thereof before being allowed to participate in the collaboration session which may be input by user via e.g. check box or the like.

In some implementations user may use the example check boxes to establish which parameters will be used to determine the reputation requirements. In some implementations reputation profile may provide user with the ability to add a custom parameter used to determine the reputation requirements. In some implementations reputation profile may include one or more sub reputation profiles not shown that may provide user with the ability to customize the number of users to apply to a particular sub reputation profile. For example to provide diversity in the participants of the collaboration session user may use e.g. dropdown menu to establish that the parameters shown in reputation profile may apply to e.g. a maximum of 5 users. In the example user may also want a maximum or minimum number of users e.g. 7 users to participate in the collaboration session that do not follow user . In the example user may select e.g. object to create a sub reputation profile not shown with different requirements for the same article e.g. using the same options shown in reputation profile with different check boxes being selected . Thus user may diversify the reputations of users that are able to participate in the collaboration session instead of a one size fits all approach being applied to all users. For instance even though reputation profile requires users to follow user the above noted sub reputation profile may still enable e.g. a maximum of 7 users that do not follow user to participate in the collaboration session. It will be appreciated that differing customized combinations of reputation profile and or sub reputation profile s may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. As such the particular combination of options selected for reputation profile and or sub reputation profiles should be taken as an example only and not to otherwise limit the scope of this disclosure.

In some implementations reputation process may enable access to the collaboration session if the reputation of the user satisfies the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. For instance and continuing with the above example if reputation process determines that the reputation of user satisfies the reputation threshold requirements for the collaboration session e.g. as established by the above noted reputation profile reputation process may enable user to participate in the collaboration session. In some implementations and referring again to enabling access to the collaboration session may include reputation process providing an object that when selected requests that the user connect to the collaboration session. For instance assume for example purposes only that user is currently viewing website which includes one or more articles e.g. article article and article . Further assume that based upon the reputation profile s established for articles article and article that user is eligible to participate in the collaboration session for articles and article but not article . In the example reputation process may provide e.g. object for article and object for article that when selected by user connects user to the respective collaboration session for the respective article where user may then participate in the respective collaboration session. For instance if the collaboration session includes a video chatting session user may be enabled to connect to and participate in that video chatting session. As another example if the collaboration session includes a call in conference user may be enabled to call in to and participate in the call in conference. As another example if the collaboration session includes a blog user may be enabled to comment or otherwise interact with the blog. As another example if the collaboration session includes a collaboration space user may be enabled to add delete view and or modify files within the collaboration space. Other examples of collaboration sessions and the particular access enabled by reputation process may be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. As such the description of the collaboration session including video chatting call in conferencing commenting or combination thereof should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations reputation process may disable access to the collaboration session if the reputation of the user fails to satisfy the reputation threshold requirement for the collaboration session. For instance continuing with the above example where based upon the reputation profile s established for articles article and article that user is eligible to participate in the collaboration session for articles and article but not article . In the example while reputation process may provide e.g. object for article and object for article that when selected by user connects user to the respective collaboration session for the respective article where user may then participate in the respective collaboration session reputation process may disable access to the collaboration session of article thereby preventing user from connecting and or participating in the collaboration session for article . In some implementations object may be grayed out to disable access to the collaboration session. In some implementations article is not displayed to user to disable access to the collaboration session. Other techniques to disable access to the collaboration session may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations and referring at least to reputation process may provide a notification e.g. notification to user indicating that user has requested to access the collaboration session of article . In some implementations the notification may include the reputation of user associated with each individual parameter established on the above noted reputation profile and or sub reputation profile as well as overall reputation based upon at least in part each parameter . For example and as shown via example key the notification may include the number of users connected to user the number of contributions made by user the number of social interactions on those contributions etc. The notification may also provide user with the ability to accept or deny the request for user to connect to the collaboration session. In some implementations the request to connect to the collaboration session may be automatically accepted by reputation process without user manually accepting the request.

In some implementations the scoring of the reputation of user may include e.g. a threshold based scoring system a binary bit scoring system an aggregate scoring system and combination thereof. For example if user has a minimum threshold number of contributions and or followers user may achieve e.g. at least one point illustrated by example only as a star. In the example user may attain more stars as subsequent threshold numbers of contributions and or followers are accumulated. In the example if user is employed by the author source of article follows the author source of article or posted on a post moderated by the author source of article or followed by the author source of article or author source of article subscribed to user via RSS or combination thereof user may achieve e.g. at least one other point illustrated by example only as a star. In the example if user has previous collaboration ratings from other users e.g. aggregated positive negative ratings from other users and or authors of previous collaboration sessions user may achieve e.g. at least one other point illustrated by example only as a star. In some implementations the total points may be averaged together or otherwise combined to determine overall reputation of user . In the above example if user has a 3 star reputation and user has established a threshold reputation of at least 2 stars to participate in the collaboration session reputation process may enable user to access the collaboration session. Conversely if user has a 3 star reputation and user has established a threshold reputation of at least 4 stars to participate in the collaboration session reputation process may disable user from accessing the collaboration session. In some implementations the determined reputation threshold requirement may include the average participant reputation of those users currently participating in the collaboration session. For example if user has a 3 star reputation and the average participant reputation of those users currently participating in the collaboration session is at least 2 stars reputation process may enable user to access the collaboration session. In some implementations this may be true even if user has established a threshold reputation of at least 4 stars to participate in the collaboration session. For example if not enough users are able to join or have yet to join the collaboration session user via reputation process may manually and or automatically change or otherwise override the required threshold to an average reputation of current participants. In the example once enough users have joined user via reputation process may manually and or automatically change the reputation requirement back.

In some implementations and referring at least to reputation process may enable user to view the current make up of participants for article . For example user may hover cursor over a particular portion of website associated with article e.g. object where a e.g. pop up window may be rendered by reputation process displaying information about who is participating in the collaboration session and or their respective overall reputation . In some implementations user may hover cursor over a particular user in the pop up window where a e.g. second pop up window may be rendered by reputation process displaying the reputation of user associated with each individual parameter established on the above noted reputation profile and or sub reputation profile . In some implementations user and or the administrator of website may disable at least some portions of pop up windows and or from being displayed.

With so many news stories and so many different websites covering the same story user may have a difficult time deciding which conversation or source in which to participate. For example website may include a cluster of 10 different sources writing different articles for the same news event. To help user decide which article and or source in which to participate reputation process may determine a reputation of an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. For example the entity e.g. website source of the article etc. may have a reputation that is determined similarly to that of user . For example the greater the number of users that follow the entity the higher the reputation of the entity. As another example the more articles posted via the entity the higher the reputation of the entity. As yet another example the more social interactions on those articles from different users the higher the reputation of the entity.

As noted above reputation process may enable user to view the current make up of participants for article by e.g. user hovering cursor over a particular portion of website associated with article e.g. object where a e.g. pop up window not shown may be rendered by reputation process displaying information about who is participating in the collaboration session and or their respective overall reputation . In some implementations similarly the pop up window may include the reputation of the entity enabling access to the collaboration session.

As yet another example to help user decide which article and or source in which to participate reputation process may determine a reputation of an author of a topic for the collaboration session. For example the author of article e.g. user may have a reputation that is determined similarly to that of user and or the source of article . For example the greater the number of users that follow the author the higher the reputation of the author. As another example the more articles posted via the author the higher the reputation of the author. As yet another example the more social interactions on those articles from different users the higher the reputation of the author. In some implementations the author of article being discussed and the originator of the collaboration session in which the article is discussed may be different. In the case where the author of the article is also the originator of the collaboration session this may add to the authors originators reputation in addition to all the other reputation factors . In some implementations determining the reputation of the author of the topic for the collaboration session may include reputation process determining whether a relationship exists between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and an entity enabling access to the collaboration session. For example the relationship may include a connection between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and the entity enabling access to the collaboration session. The connection may include for example whether or not the author e.g. user is an employee of the entity e.g. the source website of article . As another example the connection may include whether or not user is following the source website of article . As yet another example the connection may include whether or not the source website of article is following user . Other examples of determining whether a relationship exists between the author of the topic for the collaboration session and an entity enabling access to the collaboration session may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

As noted above reputation process may enable user to view the current make up of participants for article by e.g. user hovering cursor over a particular portion of website associated with article e.g. object where a e.g. pop up window not shown may be rendered by reputation process displaying information about who is participating in the collaboration session and or their respective overall reputation . In some implementations similarly the pop up window may include the reputation of the author of article the reputation of the entity enabling access to the collaboration session or combination thereof.

In some implementations the various articles may be rendered by reputation process in an ordered list based upon at least in part the reputations of the author of article and or the current participants. Other techniques of ordering the various articles may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For example reputation process may provide user with a similar reputation profile to that of reputation profile which may be used to determine which articles to display and or the preferred order of display.

In some implementations the author of the collaboration session article may e.g. via reputation process at any time during or after the collaboration session rate the performance of the users participating in the collaboration session. Similarly each participant in the collaboration session may rate the performance of the author source of the collaboration session. These ratings may contribute to user s creator s sources previous collaboration session performance score effecting their respective reputation.

While one or more examples refer to a news web site for news articles it will be appreciated that other types of websites channels for video streaming websites and viewable subject matter e.g. videos audio comments books applications etc. may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Furthermore reputation process may operate within any kind of aggregation app or other kind application besides a website based application e.g. webapp . For example reputation process may be used for e.g. virtual world conferences of avatars in which users are collaborating around a topic in abstract and not a particular piece of media article video book etc . As such the use of a news website and websites generally and news articles and particular pieces of media generally should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations reputation process may enable user and or user to opt out of sharing information that may be used to determine the reputation of user and or user as well as the reputation itself of user and or user . In some implementations reputation process may enable user and or user to opt out of the ability for others to view the reputation of user and or information that may be used to determine the reputation of user and or user .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware implementation an entirely software implementation including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an implementation combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The computer usable or computer readable storage medium including a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be for example but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a media such as those supporting the internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be a suitable medium upon which the program is stored scanned compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. The computer readable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. Java and all Java based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle and or its affiliates. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language PASCAL or similar programming languages as well as in scripting languages such as Javascript or PERL. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatus systems methods and computer program products according to various implementations of the present disclosure. It will be understood that each block in the flowchart and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable computer program instructions for implementing the specified logical function s act s . These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the computer program instructions which may execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create the ability to implement one or more of the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof. It should be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block s may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed not necessarily in a particular order on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts not necessarily in a particular order specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications variations and any combinations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The implementation s were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various implementation s with various modifications and or any combinations of implementation s as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to implementation s thereof it will be apparent that modifications variations and any combinations of implementation s including any modifications variations and combinations thereof are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

