---

title: Hydronic building systems control
abstract: Controlling heating and cooling in a conditioned space utilizes a fluid circulating in a thermally conductive structure in fluid connection with a hydronic-to-air heat exchanger and a ground heat exchanger. Air is moved past the hydronic-to-air heat exchanger, the air having fresh air supply and stale air exhaust. Sensors located throughout the conditioned space send data to a controller. User input to the controller sets the desired set point temperature and humidity. Based upon the set point temperature and humidity and sensor data, the controller sends signals to various devices to manipulate the flow of the fluid and the air in order to achieve the desired set point temperature and humidity in the conditioned space. The temperature of the fluid is kept less than the dew point at the hydronic-to-air heat exchanger and the temperature of the fluid is kept greater than the dew point at the thermally conductive structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410752&OS=09410752&RS=09410752
owner: 
number: 09410752
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130816
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 684 564 filed on Aug. 17 2012 titled Hydronic Building Systems Control which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that is taught and disclosed therein.

This disclosure is related to hydronic heating and cooling applications and more specifically to software control systems for hydronic heating and cooling applications.

Identification and Significance of the Problem or Opportunity More energy is consumed by buildings than any other segment of the U.S. economy including transportation or industry with almost 41 of total U.S. energy consumption devoted to taking care of our nation s home and commercial building energy needs. This is an increase from 39 in 2006 which utilized approximately 39 quadrillion Btu quads of energy to service the 113 million households and 74.8 billion square feet of commercial floor space in the United States. Total building primary energy consumption in 2009 was about 48 higher than consumption in 1980. Space heating space cooling and lighting were the dominant end uses in 2010 accounting for close to half of all energy consumed in the buildings sector.

More than 400 billion is spent each year to power homes and commercial buildings consuming more than 70 of all electricity used in the U.S. and contributing to almost 40 of the nation s carbon dioxide emissions. The Energy Information Administration estimates that energy consumption in buildings primarily electricity and natural gas will exceed fifty quads in the next two decades. If the U.S. can reduce building energy use by 20 approximately 80 B would be saved annually on energy bills and significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions would be realized.

Next generation building controls have the potential to produce significant energy savings in buildings. For example annual energy consumption associated with functions addressed by conventional building controls i.e. lighting heating cooling and ventilation totals nearly ten quads or 57 of primary energy. These ten quads broadly frame the energy savings opportunity for building controls. Investment in energy efficiency R D within the buildings sector especially in the key area of advanced controls could significantly reduce energy consumption. However the potential to realize these savings via innovative building controls has been hampered by several market and industry barriers.

First R D investment in the building industry is much lower than in many other industries. This is in part due to market fragmentation with many actors required to construct and operate a building e.g. manufacturers designers builders subcontractors suppliers etc. . This limits the ability of the private sector to effectively coordinate research and reliably bring innovations to market. Moreover building control innovations are particularly challenging to bring to this cost sensitive market because their benefits are difficult to quantify especially without independent verification of savings levels. Investment in building energy efficiency R D by private companies dropped 50 between 1991 and 2003.

Development of innovative and cost effective controls is also hampered by ownership issues of commercial and residential buildings. Building occupants who are not owners have little incentive to invest in building efficiency improvements. The owners are also unwilling to upgrade to high efficiency equipment and appliances because they do not see the benefit of reduced utility bills which the occupant pays. For example while utilities constitute only 1 of total building expenses they account for 30 of tenant operating expenses. Peak demand charges account for 40 of commercial building electricity expenses of which 75 of these relate to lighting and Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC systems. Most commercial buildings are cooling dominated. Ground Source Heat Pumps GHPs can reduce peak demand charges by operating at one half the peak load electrical demands of conventional equipment. When combined with hydronic high thermal mass distribution systems GHP centric HVAC systems have the potential to reduce tenant operating expenses over 20 . Hydronic as used herein is defined as the use of a fluid such as water as the heat transfer medium in heating and cooling systems.

Prevailing design bid build paradigms also impede deployment of advanced controls with focus on completing buildings quickly and inexpensively. Common sequential design processes make extensive use of prior design experience resulting in a bias against innovative approaches with lower market adoption. Integrated and synergistic design of building systems is also challenged by current practices.

Finally a central issue with installing controls to implement energy savings measures is that energy expenditures account for a small approximately 1 proportion of total annual building expenditures. Investment in core business activities often competes with energy efficiency investments such as advanced controls. Building owners operators must have very high levels of confidence that investments in building controls will have a quick payback for those investments to prove attractive. The innovation disclosed herein delivers the technology that will provide that high level of confidence.

Advanced low cost smart building controls have the technical potential to reduce U.S. commercial building HVAC and lighting energy consumption by about one quad of primary energy annually or roughly 6 of current total use. In addition many offer significant peak demand reduction potential. But as stated above advanced building controls face first cost and several non economic barriers to realizing greater market penetration. The U.S. Department of Energy Building Technologies Program understands these unique technology and industry barriers to developing innovative technologies and has requested high risk high reward innovative research focused on technology that has the potential to contribute to a 50 reduction in energy demand by residential and commercial buildings at less than the cost of the energy saved 800 trillion Btu s in annual savings by 2020 and 3 000 trillion Btu s in annual savings by 2030 .

As part of that 50 reduction effort the Department of Energy DOE is striving to develop and demonstrate crosscutting whole building technologies such as sensors and controls. These efforts support the net zero energy buildings goal not only by reducing building energy needs but also by developing design methods and operating strategies which seamlessly incorporate solar and other renewable technologies into commercial buildings. 

Integrated hydronic heating and cooling applications have the potential to reduce the residential and commercial building energy use by 50 while increasing occupant comfort safety and indoor environmental quality at substantially less cost than the energy saved.

The Hydronic Building Systems Control HBSC described in this disclosure is a low cost standards compliant software based control that integrates traditional and renewable hydronic system components for building heating cooling and hot water. HBSC addresses known technology gaps with a software solution and produces a controls requirement specification that can be hosted on commodity hardware such as that developed for the smart phone market.

HBSC also addresses shortcomings of commonly used HVAC systems by removing barriers to market adoption of hydronic heating and cooling systems. Widespread use of forced air systems contributes to high healthcare costs and decreased occupant productivity caused by poor Indoor Environmental Quality IEQ and thermal comfort while increasing vulnerability to terrorist attack with potential negative impact on public welfare and national security. Current hydronic system technologies while highly energy efficient struggle in the marketplace due to system cost controller complexity and retrofit difficulty. HBSC technology has the ability to overcome problems with forced air systems providing heating cooling and ventilation.

The American Society of Heating Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers ASHRAE and international standards organizations mandate the use of mechanical ventilation to provide fresh air in tight buildings. For higher system energy efficiency heat recovery is combined with the mechanical ventilation using an energy transfer and ventilation device. The heat exchange and ventilation is usually achieved with an air to air heat exchanger with one or more built in fans commonly known as a Heat Recovery Ventilator HRV or Energy Recovery Ventilator ERV . In climates where heating is more prevalent than air conditioning an HRV is used. In cooling climates an ERV is recommended. In hot humid climates air conditioning and or dehumidification equipment are used in conjunction with ERVs or HRVs to enhance user comfort and indoor climate.

Within a HRV contaminated exhaust air and fresh outside air pass through the heat recovery core in separate passages that prevent air contamination or mixture. The fresh outside air then absorbs the heat and warms up and is distributed at a more comfortable temperature to the various rooms by the ventilation system. An HRV can help make mechanical ventilation more cost effective by reclaiming energy from exhaust airflows. HRVs use heat exchangers to heat or cool incoming fresh air recapturing 60 to 80 of the conditioned temperatures that would otherwise be lost. Conventional fan and vent assemblies for bathrooms and kitchens often required by building code standards for ventilation may allow significant energy losses. An HRV system can incorporate small separately switched booster fans in these rooms to control moisture or heat generated by activities like showering or cooking. Odors and pollutants can quickly be removed but energy used to condition the air is recycled in the heat exchanger.

ERVs exchange moisture between the exhaust and fresh air streams. ERVs are especially recommended in climates where cooling loads place strong demands on HVAC systems. In some cases ERVs may be suitable in climates with very cold winters. If indoor relative humidity tends to be too low what available moisture there is in the indoor exhaust air stream is transferred to incoming outdoor air. However ERVs are not dehumidifiers. While the ERV transfers moisture from the humid air stream incoming outdoor air in the summer to the exhaust air stream the desiccant wheels used in many ERVs become saturated fairly quickly and the moisture transfer mechanism becomes less effective with successive hot humid periods. Mechanical vapor compression refrigeration equipment known as air conditioners is the most common approach utilized to reduce humidity while cooling.

Refrigeration air conditioning equipment usually reduces the humidity of the air processed by the system. The process is highly effective in cooling to reduce sensible and latent heat contained in the air. Sensible heat is the energy exchanged by a thermodynamic system that has as its sole effect a change of temperature. Latent heat is the quantity of heat absorbed or released by a substance undergoing a change of state such as ice changing to water or water to steam at constant temperature and atmospheric pressure. A forced air cooling system has the ability to remove sensible heat cooling the air and remove latent heat through dehumidification which removes heat contained in the water vapor in the air stream . The dew point is the temperature below which the water vapor in a volume of humid air at a given constant barometric pressure will condense into liquid water at the same rate at which it evaporates. The relatively cold below the dew point evaporator coil condenses water vapor from the processed air much like an ice cold drink will condense water on the outside of a glass sending the water to a drain and removing water vapor from the cooled space and lowering the relative humidity. Since humans perspire to provide natural cooling by the evaporation of perspiration from the skin drier air up to a point improves the comfort provided. Humans are most comfortable when 40 to 50 relative humidity is maintained in the occupied space.

A specific type of air conditioner that is used only for dehumidifying is called a dehumidifier. A dehumidifier is different from a regular air conditioner in that both the evaporator and condenser coils are placed in the same air path and the entire unit is placed in the environment that is intended to be conditioned in this case dehumidified rather than requiring an external condenser coil. Having the condenser coil in the same air path as the evaporator coil produces warm dehumidified air. The evaporator cold coil is placed first in the air path dehumidifying the air exactly as a regular air conditioner does. The air next passes over the condenser coil re warming the now dehumidified air. Note that the terms condenser coil and evaporator coil do not refer to the behavior of water in the air as it passes over each coil instead they refer to the phases of the refrigeration cycle. Having the condenser coil in the main air path rather than in a separate outdoor air path as in a regular air conditioner results in two consequences the output air is warm rather than cold and the unit is able to be placed anywhere in the environment to be conditioned without a need for an external condenser.

Unlike a regular air conditioner a dehumidifier will actually heat a room just as an electric heater that draws the same amount of power as the dehumidifier. A traditional air conditioner transfers energy out of the room by means of the condenser coil which is outside the room. In this thermodynamic system the room is the system and energy is transferred out of the system. Conversely with a dehumidifier no energy is transferred out of the thermodynamic system because the dehumidifier is entirely inside the room. The power consumed by the dehumidifier is energy that is input into the thermodynamic system and remains in the room as heat energy.

Air conditioning systems using cooling towers can promote the growth and spread of microorganisms such as the infectious agent responsible for Legionnaires disease or thermophilic actinomycetes. Conversely air conditioning including filtration humidification cooling disinfection etc. can be used to provide a clean safe hypoallergenic atmosphere in environments where an appropriate atmosphere is critical to occupant safety and well being. Air conditioning can have a negative effect by drying out the air causing dry skin and negatively affecting sufferers of allergies and asthma. Air conditioning can also be used for dehumidification as water vapor condenses on the air coil during cooling.

Although hydronic systems offer solutions to these shortcomings they bring with them a unique set of adoption barriers including 

This Summary is provided to introduce in a simplified form a selection of concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The Hydronic Building Systems Control is a temperature and humidity control apparatus for air and temperature variable fluid in an air space comprising a thermally conductive structure such as a building floor wall or ceiling hydronic coil to air heat exchanger a source of liquid coolant at a temperature below or above the temperature of the air space controllable means for applying a temperature variable liquid at a temperature higher than the dew point of the air space to the thermally conductive structure and for applying a temperature variable liquid coolant at a temperature lower than the dew point to the hydronic coil to air heat exchanger means for sensing at least the air temperature in the air space a relative humidity of the air space a temperature of the thermally conductive structure and liquid source temperatures a controller coupled to the sensing means and to the controllable means.

Proposed Innovation Objectives The Detailed Description below describes HBSC which addresses barriers facing well integrated hydronic system solutions and increases the adoption of technologies that can surpass the energy performance of conventional forced air distribution systems while providing superior health safety and comfort benefits. Objectives of HBSC include but are not limited to 

To assist in the understanding of the present disclosure the following Table Of Components and associated numbering found in the drawings is provided below.

The invention may be implemented as a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process.

Technical Approach Described in detail below is a low cost standards based integrated Hydronic Building Systems Control. One embodiment is based on the BACnet protocol and HBSC algorithms are hosted on commodity hardware developed for the smart phone market. HBSC provides interoperability between legacy and new HVAC equipment and is designed using a process model which incorporates hydronic fan coils and high mass radiant floor hydronic heating and cooling incorporating ground source heat pumps source circulator control process heat and solar thermal sources ground heat exchanger passive cooling and dew point tracking for high mass radiant cooling applications.

Referring now to the Figures like reference numerals and names refer to structurally and or functionally similar elements thereof and if objects depicted in the figures that are covered by another object as well as the tag line for the element number thereto may be shown in dashed lines. is a process model diagram that shows the requisite control functionality and critical parameters of an embodiment of HBSC. To simplify the control optimization strategy HBSC utilizes the explicit process model shown in to determine critical parameters. Since this approach is vendor and technology agnostic HBSC provides direct control and interoperability through modulation of single or multi stage legacy equipment while providing a path to accommodate emerging Variable Speed VS devices with onboard optimization. HBSC uses a model based design with minimal sensed feedback for reduced cost and operates more rapidly than direct search method approaches which perturb physical process variables to reactively optimize system performance. Notwithstanding the above one skilled in the art will recognize that individual components shown in can be arranged in many different configurations and that specific components may be different types of devices selected to meet specific requirements for a given structure. should not be viewed in a limiting way but as an exemplary embodiment of the features and functions as set out in the claims that follow.

HBSC Innovation Description and Sequence of Controls Referring now to HBSC is based on a model consisting of a combination of analog devices using a circulating fluid to heat or cool a Conditioned Space such as a room in a home or an office in a building or multiple conditioned spaces in a Thermally Conductive Structure such as radiant floors walls and ceilings or chilled beams.

The fluid may be used to transfer energy by circulating the fluid through a Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger in combination with a device which moves air through Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger . The fluid may be water propylene glycol ethanol methanol or any other suitable fluid that is typically non corrosive. In another embodiment Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger may be a dehumidifier and air conditioning unit mechanical vapor compression refrigeration equipment an absorption chiller or a heat recovery ventilator. The air moving device may be a fan or Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device such as an ERV HRV water to air heat pump water to water heat pump air to water heat pump air conditioner or dehumidifier.

Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device uses two or more fans such as Fresh Air Fan and Exhaust Air Fan to bring Fresh Air Supply into Conditioned Space while removing Stale Exhaust Air . Typical implementations utilize ventilation comprising Air Duct Intake and Air Duct Exhaust . In this process Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device exchanges energy between the air flows Fresh Air Supply and Stale Exhaust Air which includes water vapor in the air causing a change in humidity. The air flow into the conditioned space is Conditioned Air which differs from outside air based on interaction with Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device . The entering fluid to Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger is Hydronic Coil Supply Fluid . The leaving fluid is Hydronic Coil Return Fluid . Hydronic Coil Supply Fluid is pumped from Thermal Storage One with Hydronic Coil to Air Circulator . The temperature of the fluid in Thermal Storage One typically a chilled fluid storage tank is sensed by Thermal Storage Temperature Sensor One . The temperature of the fluid in Thermal Storage Two typically a heating fluid storage tank is sensed by Thermal Storage Temperature Sensor Two .

When Hydronic Coil Supply Fluid entering Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger is sufficiently colder than the dew point of Fresh Intake Air water will condense on Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger causing Conditioned Air to be dehumidified.

The fluid in Thermal Storage One typically cold or Thermal Storage Two typically hot may be used to transfer energy through Thermally Conductive Structure . Typical structures utilize low or high mass mediums in which tubing is mounted or embedded. Applications include radiant floor walls and ceilings or chilled beams. The temperature of Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid is controlled with Radiant Mixing Device by modulating the mixed flow of Hydronic Supply Fluid with Hydronic Return Fluid . Hydronic Supply Fluid is pumped by Hydronic Load Circulator from Thermal Storage One or Thermal Storage Two based on the position of the Thermal Load 3 Way Control Valves . In cooling mode the Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid is circulated at a temperature above dew point to prevent condensation in Thermally Conductive Structure . Chilled fluid below dew point contained in Thermal Storage One and used to dehumidify air in Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger is mixed to a temperature above dew point to circulate in Thermally Conductive Structure .

The source of chilling or heating for the fluids contained in Thermal Storage One and Thermal Storage Two may be active or passive. Active heating and chilling is provided from Heat Pump or an active source containing Process Heat Exchanger typically a boiler chiller solar thermal array combined heat and power unit CHP or cogeneration or an absorption chiller . Passive heating and chilling is provided from an open or closed loop Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two or Process Heat Exchanger for waste heat or cooling.

An open loop ground heat exchanger uses ground water directly as a heating or cooling medium extracting and then discharging water to the ground. A closed loop ground heat exchanger as depicted at Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two utilizes piping embedded in the ground or surface water through which thermally conductive fluid is circulated.

One embodiment utilizes a ground source heat pump such as Heat Pump for active chilling or heating Thermal Storage One or Thermal Storage Two . Another embodiment utilizes an air source heat pump not shown without a requirement for a Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two . In chilling operation Heat Pump cools with Thermal Storage Source 3 Way Control Valves directed to Thermal Storage One . In heating operation Heat Pump heats with Thermal Storage Source 3 Way Control Valves directed to Thermal Storage Two . Load Circulator moves fluid from Thermal Storage One and Thermal Storage Two through the load side heat exchanger contained within Heat Pump .

Heat Pump may operate using an open loop or closed loop ground heat exchanger. In one embodiment as shown in Heat Pump actively heats chills using an electric vapor compression process with a closed loop ground heat exchanger comprised of Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two . This type of heat exchanger is known in the industry as the source side heat exchanger. While typical ground source heat pumps use one closed loop ground heat exchanger the source side embodiment shown in may use all or part of the ground heat exchanger with and without utilizing heating or chilling from Process Heat Exchanger . The amount of flow through Ground Heat Exchanger One versus Process Heat Exchanger is a function of the position of Source 3 Way Control Valves One . The flow through Ground Heat Exchanger Two is a function of the position of Source 3 Way Control Valves Two . Flow through Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two is delivered by Source Side Circulator One Source Side Circulator Two and Process Heat Circulator . The fluid mixing between Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two and Process Heat Exchanger is the function of Source Mixing Device One and Source Mixing Device Two .

Attaining the highest system energy efficiency determines the operation of the circulator pumps contained in Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two . At maximum capacity operation and utilization of Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two all pumps in the Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two are activated when Heat Pump turns on. When Heat Pump is equipped with a two stage compressor logic within the Microprocessor Controller activates relays contained within Devices Controller to affect operation of the circulator pumps contained in Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two . For multiple fixed speed pumps a relay for each pump is activated to provide sufficient flow rate to Heat Pump based on Microprocessor Controller data. Factors affecting the source side required flow for Heat Pump performance include entering water temperature from Sensor Inputs the compressor output and heating or cooling mode demanded by Microprocessor Controller and calculated performance data provided by the manufacturer and known to Microprocessor Controller . For multiple speed and variable speed pumps contained in Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two digital output is provided by Microprocessor Controller to one or both Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two to meet required source side flow rate as calculated by Microprocessor Controller to optimize system energy efficiency. One embodiment is a 0 10 volt input signal corresponding to 0 100 output pump capacity. When Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two are utilized in split operation as one for heating and one for cooling Microprocessor Controller will activate the respective Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two at the pump capacity to meet the required source side flow rate for Heat Pump to meet capacity demand.

For passive heating and cooling Thermal Storage One and Thermal Storage Two are heated or cooled without engaging Heat Pump operation. Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two and Process Heat Exchanger fluids bypass the Heat Pump . These fluids may be circulated directly into Thermal Storage One or Thermal Storage Two or transfer energy through Source Heat Exchanger as shown in the embodiment of . Typical ground heat exchanger fluids are at low grade temperatures so direct use in cooling is an appropriate application. Bypass 3 Way Control Valves enable direct use of source side heat exchanger fluids bypassing Heat Pump . Load Circulator affects flow between Thermal Storage One or Thermal Storage Two and Source Heat Exchanger based on the position of Thermal Storage Source 3 Way Control Valves . When Source Heat Exchanger is utilized the Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two or Process Heat Circulator must also be activated to establish heat transfer across Source Heat Exchanger .

The proposed innovation is a control for a hydronic building system for space cooling and heating. The control system for controlling a hydronic building system for space cooling and heating consists of at least one of a User Interface Communications Module Sensor Inputs for sensing temperature atmospheric pressure humidity and velocity Microprocessor Controller and Devices Controller . These devices can operate as separate modules or integrated components.

User Interface provides functionality for setting system operating parameters observing system operations and controlling system performance. Typical embodiments range from a simple menu selection for input with numerical output to dynamic graphical display which changes based on digital and analog output. The primary embodiment is a graphical user interface typically utilized for smart phones and content rich portable computing devices. In this embodiment User Interface Communications Module and Microprocessor Controller are hosted on a single device.

In another embodiment User Interface is a separate device or a software application residing on a general purpose computing platform and operating system. Communications Module enables communications between User Interface Microprocessor Controller and devices external to HBSC. External weather and climate data are provided to HBSC through Communications Module . Typical embodiments are based on industry standard building automation protocols including BACnet Modbus and Lon Works. Microprocessor Controller hosts the software algorithms containing system functionality. This compact embedded microprocessor system accepts digital input from User Interface and digital analog input from Sensor Inputs and generates digital output to User Interface Communications Module digital and analog components within the Devices Controller .

To reduce development costs and increase manufacturing feasibility open source software and hardware is used including Microprocessor Controller device operating system shared libraries and BACnet communications protocol. Open protocols are standardized communications and network layers published for use by any device manufacturer. HBSC architecture is designed to work in concert with commercial building automation systems. In one embodiment Microprocessor Controller processes sensor data applies algorithms to extract control outputs and communicates those outputs via standard architectures such as a BACnet link in one embodiment. Software functionality includes a minimal device operating system shared libraries and support for industry standard communications. Microprocessor Controller can operate as a stand alone controller or provide output to the building automation system via BACnet to execute algorithms for device control. The Physical Communications Layer is an industry standard such as 100 Base T Ethernet between HBSC the building automation system and a network router. In one embodiment the hardware consists of a series of microprocessors based on advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computing RISC machine cores which are comparable to hardware available in recent smart phones and hosted using methods developed by the DOE National Renewable Energy Laboratory. In this embodiment a modified Linux operating system is optimized for embedded applications processing.

SENSORS Sensor Inputs provide analog and digital input for system control. Control devices contain at least one member of the group consisting of sensor inputs for temperature pressure relative humidity air and fluid velocity and real time energy use. From these inputs methods known in the art are used to calculate dew point energy and thermal production kWh and Btu s and energy use by component and process. Control decisions use algorithms which provide the highest system energy efficiency as measured by energy produced divided by energy used over a time period. In one embodiment of the device controlling HBSC system as shown in temperature sensors are located in 

demand and source supply and return on Heat Pump Process Heat Exchanger Heat Pump and Source Heat Exchanger and

Humidity and atmospheric pressure sensors are located in Conditioned Space . Devices which consume power during system operation are equipped with watt hr meters. These include circulators Hydronic Load Circulator Hydronic to Air Circulator Source Side Circulator One Source Side Circulator Two Load Circulator and Process Heat Circulator fans Fresh Air Fan Exhaust Air Fan and Heat Pump . Using known methods this sensor configuration is sufficient to calculate component and system energy efficiency in real time and calculate dew point in real time in Conditioned Space and Thermally Conductive Structure . This information is used by HBSC algorithms to provide control outputs to digital and analog devices. System energy efficiency overrides component energy efficiency when energy savings is highest at the system level. The overall system power usage is determined from sensors. The component actual power usage is determined from sensors or component calculated power usage using the component rated efficiencies EER COP provided by the manufacturer using one or more performance parameters.

Devices Controller accepts Microprocessor Controller output to affect control of digital or analog devices including mixing Radiant Mixing Device Source Mixing Device One and Source Mixing Device Two 3 way valves Source 3 Way Control Valves One Source 3 Way Control Valves Two Bypass 3 Way Control Valves Thermal Storage Source 3 Way Control Valves and Thermal Load 3 Way Control Valves Heat Pump Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger Fresh Air Fan and components which lack digital onboard input capabilities. Devices Controller provides binary on off control signals or variable control signals such as a 01 10 volt signal .

User Interface Communications Module Microprocessor Controller and Devices Controller are able to implement the controls strategy which optimizes system energy efficiency. The software and hardware of these four components have the flexibility to implement a wide variety of known control strategies. These include set point control setback control reset control low and high limit control LEAD LAG control high low signal select and averaging control. The control logic is implemented as 1 an open loop control in which decisions are based only on the model of how the system should operate or 2 as a closed loop control in which the result of an output is fed back to the controller as an input. To simplify installation and commissioning HBSC contains preset algorithms known to produce the highest system energy efficiency. An example is modulating the Source Side Circulator One and Source Side Circulator Two as a linear function to the compressor speed of Heat Pump . All of these settings of system operating parameters are stored in memory in Microprocessor Controller .

COOLING OPERATION Conditioned Space and Thermally Conductive Structure are at a temperature above the desired comfort set point temperature in Conditioned Space . HBSC is programmed with staged priority cooling and ventilation set to multiple stages e.g. Stage 1 Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device Stage 2 radiant floor cooling through Thermally Conductive Structure and Stage 3 forced air cooling through Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger .

If fresh air ventilation is required within Conditioned Space or if the outdoor air temperature is lower than the desired comfort set point in Conditioned Space HBSC activates the Energy Transfer and Ventilation Device to circulate cool outside air in Conditioned Space . If the outside air is cooler than Conditioned Space by a preset offset temperature and cooling demand is met within a preset time period Stage 1 cooling is the only means activated. If Stage 1 cooling does not meet cooling demand within a preset time period or to meet programmed response requirements such as a change in temperature over time Stage 2 cooling is activated.

Stage 2 cooling extracts heat from Conditioned Space using the Thermally Conductive Structure . Based on sensor input for temperature relative humidity and atmospheric pressure Microprocessor Controller calculates the dew point of Thermally Conductive Structure and Conditioned Space . Microprocessor Controller adds an offset temperature to the higher of these dew points which determines Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid . The sources for chilled fluid include Thermal Storage One Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two or Process Heat Exchanger . In one embodiment Process Heat Exchanger is eliminated and Ground Heat Exchanger One and Ground Heat Exchanger Two fluids are used directly to cool the Thermally Conductive Structure . Heat Pump can be activated to chill Thermal Storage One if no source is at or below the required Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature. If either Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two or Process Heat Exchanger are at a lower temperature than the required Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature HBSC activates Bypass 3 Way Control Valves to bypass Heat Pump activates Thermal Storage Source 3 Way Control Valves to Thermal Storage One position and activates Load Circulator and respective Source Side Circulator One Source Side Circulator Two or Process Heat Circulator to chill Thermal Storage One . When Thermal Storage Temperature Sensor One senses that Thermal Storage One temperature is lower than the desired set point for the mixed radiant supply fluid HBSC activates Thermal Load 3 Way Control Valves to Thermal Storage One setting and activates Hydronic Load Circulator . Radiant Mixing Device is modulated to maintain the desired Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature. If the source fluid maintains the set point temperature the Stage 2 cooling continues until the comfort temperature in Conditioned Space is met. If during Stage 2 cooling HBSC determines that a chilled Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature cannot meet cooling demand or that the required Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature that meets cooling demand is below the dew point Stage 3 cooling is activated.

Stage 3 cooling requires Thermal Storage One tank temperature to be less than dew point in order to condense moisture on the fan coil and affect dehumidification of air passing through Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger . Using the same logic finding a source in Stage 2 cooling HBSC activates Stage 3 cooling of Thermal Storage One based on the source providing the highest cooling thermal output at the lowest energy input. If Process Heat Exchanger or Ground Heat Exchanger One Ground Heat Exchanger Two fluids are at a higher temperature than the required Thermal Storage One temperature HBSC directs Bypass 3 Way Control Valves to the Heat Pump position selects the source heat exchanger fluid at the lowest temperature and activates the lowest Heat Pump compressor setting to meet the chilled water demand. This setting can be pre programmed as an open loop control or calculated in real time using feedback from Thermal Storage Temperature Sensor One response over a set time period. As the temperature drops in Thermal Storage One Radiant Mixing Device modulates the mixing of Hydronic Return Fluid to maintain Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid above the set point above dew point.

When Heat Pump cools Thermal Storage One below the temperature required for air coil condensation HBSC activates Hydronic to Air Circulator to circulate Hydronic Coil Supply Fluid . If the energy transfer and ventilation is not already operating HBSC turns on Hydronic to Air Circulator to the lowest fan setting which provides sufficient ventilation and maximum dehumidification across the fan coil. As Fresh Intake Air passes through Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger the resultant Conditioned Air will be cooled and have less humidity than Fresh Air Supply . With continuous operation this process will lower the relative humidity and calculated dew point in Conditioned Space . The lower dew point in Thermally Conductive Structure will enable a lower Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature making Thermally Conductive Structure more effective as a cooling heat exchanger.

Using historic data climate data or real time weather data the staging and set points of these options can be adjusted to predict set points for optimal comfort or stage processes for optimal system energy efficiency. HBSC incorporates thermal mass of Thermally Conductive Structure by creating LEAD LAG times for temperature response based on structure.

In another embodiment Heat Pump can chill Thermal Storage One while rejecting heat to Thermal Storage Two or Process Heat Exchanger without using Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two . In low grade temperature applications such as pool heating while cooling a chilling tower the system energy efficiency is twice that of a heat pump heating or chilling while operating with the ground heat exchanger.

HEATING OPERATION It is known that radiant floor heating processes are mature art and condensation on Thermally Conductive Structure is not a consideration. HBSC provides innovations beyond current art to increase user comfort design flexibility and energy efficiency improvements.

HBSC uses a reset curve to determine a set point to meet heat demand in Conditioned Space . This set point is based on outside air temperature Conditioned Space air temperature Thermally Conductive Structure temperature and desired comfort set point. In one embodiment HBSC uses weather forecast data to modify set points for efficiency and comfort using known algorithms such as such as pre cooling prior to forecast peak demand loads. Similar to cooling sequences HBSC accepts temperature sensor inputs to determine highest system energy efficiency based on passive heat from Process Heat Exchanger or Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two or active heating using Heat Pump . If Heat Pump is the source of high grade heat HBSC could select one or more Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two or Process Heat Exchanger as a source fluid providing the highest Heat Pump heating efficiency. Using known algorithms and Heat Pump manufacturer performance data efficiency increases when providing hotter source water in heating mode and cooler source water in cooling mode within specific operating ranges. This method may be overridden when system energy efficiency is higher at source temperatures different than that temperature for highest Heat Pump efficiency when considering all system components.

In one embodiment Process Heat Exchanger is a high temperature solar thermal array. HBSC would select this source for passive heating by activating Source 3 Way Control Valves One and Source 3 Way Control Valves Two to position Process Heat Exchanger activating Bypass 3 way Control Valves to bypass Heat Pump and activating Thermal Storage Source 3 way Control Valves to the Thermal Storage Two position. If the solar thermal production reduces Process Heat Exchanger temperature below the required Mixed Radiant Supply Fluid temperature but at a temperature higher than the Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two Heat Pump would be activated in heating mode and operating against Process Heat Exchanger as the source.

If this source continued to drop in temperature below that of Ground Heat Exchanger One Ground Heat Exchanger Two HBSC would affect the valve and pump positions to operate Heat Pump in a conventional configuration with the ground heat exchangers.

Ground Heat Exchanger One Ground Heat Exchanger Two may be monolithic or separate into one or more zones. The embodiment shown in shows two separate ground heat exchanger zones. This number of zones can be increased by adding a dedicated source circulator such as Source Side Circulator One Source Side Circulator Two and source mixing device such as Source Mixing Device One Source Mixing Device Two to additional ground heat exchanger zones. These zones can serve as thermal energy storage for the overall system moving energy from the Thermal Storage One Thermal Storage Two or Process Heat Exchanger . The thermal storage can either be chilling or heating high thermal mass. In the case of Process Heat Exchanger representing a solar hot water thermal array Ground Heat Exchanger One Ground Heat Exchanger Two can store excess heat from the solar thermal system to address a future thermal need. Similarly heat extracted from Conditioned Space via Thermally Conductive Structure and rejected to Thermal Storage Two can be extracted from Thermal Storage Two and sent to Ground Heat Exchanger One or Ground Heat Exchanger Two .

The application of HBSC is not limited to radiant floor applications. Anywhere that the embodiment refers to Thermally Conductive Structure another embodiment for the hydronic distribution is to a hydronic fan coil similar to the function of Hydronic Coil to Air Heat Exchanger . In commercial buildings the embodiment of the hydronic distribution to the conditioned space is to a thermally conductive structure which involves radiant low or high mass structures hydronic fan coils or variable air velocity hydronic fan coils.

Control Algorithm Optimization Beyond the Current Art HBSC implements innovative algorithms that reduce building energy use at a substantially lower cost than the energy saved. One embodiment is hosted on a physical microprocessor based on low cost commodity hardware developed for the smart phone industry.

HBSC energy savings potential increases substantially when advanced GHP equipment and high mass hydronic architecture are integrated in a holistic design. illustrates controls potential to reduce energy based on equipment selection and distribution system as compared to a baseline gas forced air heating system with conventional outdoor direct exchanger vapor compression refrigeration.

These technology innovations are illustrated in . The functionality defined by the shaded areas represents algorithms for passive heating and cooling potential. HBSC algorithms use a conceptual model which implements a hydronic design providing interoperability between GHPs and alternative thermal heating and cooling sources. Traditional control architectures lack interoperability and innovation. Controls are typically designed to operate one device. In residential applications a dedicated thermostat controls the furnace a surface mounted aqua stat controls the hot water heater a switch controls the bath fan etc. These controls are wired using industry standard least common denominator bus connections for basic heat cool or fan which are not designed for the highest performance. One control unit does not know the existence of or the capabilities of another control unit or equipment within the home or building. While commercial applications may operate multiple devices the controls logic and features are similar to residential systems. As equipment or new functions are added the overall system resembles a jigsaw puzzle of increasing complexity where potential energy improvements are limited to the interoperability or lack thereof with existing infrastructure. In new construction involving commercial buildings with advanced features dedicated controls contractors must write custom code to provide the links between disparate equipment sensors and controls. In general these DDC programmers lack the knowledge to optimize component and system efficiencies.

By applying client server computing architectures such as shown in to building controls HBSC overcomes these interoperability limitations. HBSC is based on a model representing the potential heating and cooling and ventilation processes available to meet user requirements. A common Client Server Architecture provides interoperability to legacy and new equipment. Rather than requiring new equipment to fit into the puzzle created by the existing infrastructure the new equipment must comply with a common systems architecture standard. The complexity of the system is reduced to common application programming interfaces. Quite simply any Client a control should communicate to any Server HVAC equipment . As proven with information technology IT systems Client Server Architectures are powerful.

One HBSC embodiment is a building controls architecture based on BACnet a national and international standard proven in commercial applications and readily available. One market barrier to BACnet controls is the high cost of BACnet compatible hardware processors. The lowest cost controls platform is one which has the largest worldwide market share. One embodiment to reduce the hardware cost of this processor is to host it on a RISC based smart phone platform.

BACnet compatible algorithms are ported to a commodity hardware microprocessor platform developed to serve the smart phone industry. As shown below in a HBSC device will serve as an application controller within a larger network or as a low cost control for standalone applications.

HBSC software implements process control for a functional model of a generic building heating cooling and hot water system. The model has functions found in traditional buildings and advanced features that implement controls technology unavailable today. The basic functionality uses best practices algorithms known in the art for the control of traditional equipment for the production of hot water chilled water and ventilation equipment. Integrated systems capabilities make HBSC innovative. While using known algorithms the implementation is unique with advanced hydronic features unavailable in controls today. Capabilities include dew point tracking with humidity control which enables radiant floor cooling implementations and direct use of solar thermal fluids for heating or ground heat exchanger fluids for passive cooling. For the control of legacy and new GHP equipment HBSC controls the source circulators in a linear relationship to compressor demand to optimize system performance.

HBSC has the collective potential to increase the Seasonal Performance Factor for the Heating System SPF up to 30 over traditional GHP designs using conventional controls. When installed with high mass radiant cooling the system energy efficiency increases to 40 over conventional forced air GHP systems. These gains are derived from the effectiveness of the radiant floor infrastructure and the lower condenser temperatures within the GHP. RFC systems require twice the tubing density six inches on center spacing of radiant floor heating systems. As compared to heating RFC requires a higher volume of heat transfer fluid usually water which increases thermal mass and system lag time time period for fluid to complete one circuit through the distribution system while decreasing hydronic circulation flow rate which reduces circulator energy. Embedded in a structural concrete slab or lightweight concrete topping a high mass radiant floor configured for cooling is a highly efficient heat transfer medium. The tubing density required for a RFC heat exchanger increases the heat transfer coefficient and reduces the mean temperature difference. With the same inlet temperature and an increased flow rate through the GHP the required mean temperature differential can be maintained with a lower condensation temperature. For the GHP condenser in heating mode this means a lower average temperature level and thus a lower condensing pressure and reduced compressor work. Designing the hydronic heating system for the supply temperature of 90 degrees F. at the Design Outdoor Air Temperature DOAT instead of the more common 125 degrees F. will increase the SPFby approximately 40 using the estimate that COP increases by 2 for each 1 degree K of lowered condensation temperature .

Since the thermal mass of the radiant floor will affect the cyclic behavior of the heat pump and temperature level of the system it has the effect of lowering condensation temperatures even further. Traditionally W A GHPs with Electronically Commutated Motor ECM fans have a higher ARI COP rating than W W GHPs. The SPFfor low mass intermittent systems operation is 3 higher than high mass systems. This is due to the lower supply temperatures during compressor operation. However low mass systems increase compressor cycling and contribute to user thermal discomfort caused by rapid changes in air temperatures between cycles. High thermal mass increases the system lag time. An example of low thermal mass radiant structures is PEX tubing which is attached to a low mass structure such as floor sheathing or wall paneling. A high mass structure involves embedding the PEX tubing or any other type of appropriate piping in concrete light weight concrete gypsum or related high density material which creates lag time when heating or cooling due to the mass of the material.

A GHP equipped with a single stage compressor operating at full capacity and supplying a radiant hydronic system with a ten minute lag time increases SPFby 5 versus a radiator system with no lag time. This is shown in .

The SPFincreases with increasing lag time because the average supply temperature is reduced during the compressor on time. The plateau at the beginning of the cycle depicted by the solid line is due to lag time. The increase in SPFis optimal when a single stage W W GHP is sized at a capacity which is 70 80 of the peak building demand at the DOAT.

While radiant heating algorithms are mature the RFC optimization and control approach implemented in HBSC represents a significant advancement in the state of the art. HBSC is unique in the comprehensive and discrete control of an integrated system used in the process model and containing radiant floor cooling with dynamic dew point tracking and active humidity control dual process heating and cooling sources ventilation using a hydronic coil in line with energy recovery and segmented ground heat exchangers to utilize alternative energy sources and optimize GHP and system performance. The innovative control enables deployment of this functionality as stand alone capabilities or as part of an integrated systems design as described in the first embodiment.

Peak grid demand is driven by building cooling loads. Reducing peak cooling loads reduces grid energy use. RFC reduces cooling system energy by 17 42 depending on climate zone operates at higher distribution efficiencies than forced air enables personal comfort space zoning limits terrorist intrusion vulnerabilities of forced air HVAC systems and inherently eliminates the health risk from fatal infectious diseases caused by gram negative aerobic bacteria such as Legionella . RFC has the capacity to remove 12 14 Btu h ftsensible gain and 25 32 Btu h ftof radiant heat gain in spaces with direct solar exposure such as large glass atriums. Using radiant roll out mat installation methods cross linked polyethylene PEX tubing embedded in new construction concrete slabs is one half the first cost of forced air ductwork. Existing buildings with installed high mass radiant floor heating can be upgraded to RFC at minimal cost. To avoid condensation in RFC applications dew point sensing controls are required. RFC controls are available to control set cooling water temperature based on dew point though these controls lack the functionality to actively control humidity. HBSC extends the art by providing this capability.

The primary function is to control cooling in a thermally conductive structure such as RFC or chilled beams. Radiant heating algorithms will use conventional methods. Zone sensors provide temperature atmospheric pressure or the atmospheric pressure is accounted for by pre programming in the algorithms eliminating the need for atmospheric pressure sensors and relative humidity data to determine a system dew point and to set a supply water temperature which prevents condensation within the structure. When indoor humidity is low wet bulb gain is negligible. With RFC latent heat is removed by an air conditioning and ventilation system which incorporates air velocity sensing. In dry climates a separate air conditioning system may not be required as a chilled W A coil used in conjunction with the VAV or ERV HRV can provide limited latent heat extraction and dehumidification. In these applications the control must provide chilled water below dew point to the W A coil for dehumidification while mixing RFC water to an offset temperature above dew point for use in the high mass thermally conductive structure.

Radiant cooling systems are particularly effective at reducing direct solar heat gain on indoor floor surfaces. This is particularly relevant to passive solar homes where the design intentionally provides full shade in the summer and full sun in the winter. The high thermal mass of radiant heated floors exposed to direct solar heating tends to overheat the conditioned space. In winter months with mild outdoor air temperatures and a very efficient building envelope high performance homes tend to overheat in mid day with low sun angles. A radiant floor cooling system has the ability to directly extract infrared heat gains from the thermally conductive structure to prevent overheating in this scenario. Heat extracted for cooling is utilized in the integrated system to provide immediate heating or stored for future use.

The efficiency of radiant cooling is limited by latent heat loads. depicts an estimate of RFC potential within U.S. climate zones.

Moving heat is usually more efficient than converting fuel or electricity to generate heat or cooling. Heat pumps inherently move heat. The COP of a GHP doubles when the heat pump moves heat directly from a chilling source to a heating source without a ground heat exchanger. High mass hydronic systems operate at moderate temperatures thus increasing equipment efficiency and providing an opportunity for direct use of passive heating or cooling with thermal storage. HBSC algorithms implement model based passive strategies including night cooling direct use of ground coupled hydronic loops bypassing the chiller segmenting the ground source heat exchanger to serve as a heat sink ice storage and night fluid or pre cooling functionality. HBSC provides interoperability between traditional air cooling and dehumidification equipment hydronic chillers boilers direct digital and analog to GHPs with innovative features and accepts sensors for temperature pressure humidity and air velocity and water flow. The controller selects an active or passive source based on set point heat and cooling source temperatures to meet building loads. It can operate as a standalone controller for residential applications or serve as an industry standards compliant sub system controller for complex residential and commercial applications.

The GHEX is often oversized for cooling loads when designed for heating dominated buildings or climates. With an integrated solar thermal system this excess GHEX capacity can reduce costs and improve the GHP COP. The solar factor of thermal hot water systems is limited by storage capacity which is often sized based on the thermal capacity of the array. Solar thermal collectors are one half the costs of the required storage tanks sized to the array capacity. Therefore the installed cost per Btu of capacity for a solar thermal array is substantially reduced if the solar array is expanded without increasing thermal tank storage capacity. A split or segmented GHEX makes this possible for heating dominated annual building loads. Consider the example for a GHP sized for ten GHEX loops or wells during winter heating operation. During summer operation the GHEX meets the smaller cooling load using only six loops or wells with the remaining four loops or wells available for thermal storage. The solar thermal array can be increased by the capacity provided by these four loops or wells. These loops or wells are superheated when compared to the stable ground temperature. When the GHP enters heating mode COP increases as a result of the higher entering water temperature from the GHEX using all ten loops or wells. For a period of time during the transition from cooling to heating season the hydronic radiant floor applications may directly use GHEX water in the heated loops or wells. HBSC will compare the radiant demand set point temperature to the GHEX loops or well temperature and solar thermal supply temperature to select a direct energy source or the need to operate the GHP compressor to meet demand which is higher in heating or lower in cooling to meet the space conditioning requirements.

With system wide sensing and digital control of an advanced GHP HBSC will operate the GHP to provide the highest system COP EER. HBSC controller is operable to command the following actions 

The proposed integrated HBSC represents a significant advance over existing controls which are plagued by incomplete functionality high cost complex and proprietary installation requirements and a failure to recognize advanced capabilities of GHPs. HBSC delivers an affordable and interoperable control based on existing commercial standards and reduces installation cost complexity and serviceability of the control system.

Related Research or R D Thermodynamics is not a new science. A patent of particular relevance to radiant floor cooling was issued in 1993 to Galiyano U.S. Pat. No. 5 261 251 which disclosed a hydronic cooling and heating system through a slab with an in ground heat exchanger and compressor. U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 314 discloses methods for geothermal heating and cooling with solar heating. Dehumidification using an ERV is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 845 185. Dr. Roy Crawford has a patent pending for humidity control for air conditioning systems U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0261422 A1 . Control algorithms have been researched since the mid 20century. Today this basic science is used in residential commercial and industrial buildings worldwide. Work in Sweden by Karlsson and Fahl n are just a few of many that have shown ground source heat pumps can be optimized in hydronic heating and cooling applications. The literature is replete with current research in this area.

Likewise software programmable microprocessors with open standards interoperability such as BACnet have been developed for decades. While different in application the science of enterprise control of heating and cooling systems is not new or particularly complex. The unique combination of these elements into a single low cost control system is innovative and unique. There are undoubtedly hundreds of patents for controls involving radiant hydronic heating and cooling systems variable speed devices solar thermal storage and latent heat extraction.

With more advanced control algorithms system efficiencies utilizing W W GHPs can be increased substantially. By focusing mainly on incremental enhancements to existing systems controls manufacturers have avoided innovative HVAC products and designs which promise to deliver the highest return on investment when balancing first costs with energy savings. Examples include the control of two stage and variable speed water water GHPs and multi speed and variable speed flow center pumps. There has been no demand for an optimized control for integrated hydronic systems with water water GHPs since no U.S. GHP manufacturer offers VS technology in W W heat pumps. In Europe VS W W heat pumps are equipped with internal controls for heating only applications. Controls manufacturers have not addressed the need for enterprise control as geothermal heat pumps represent less than of the HVAC control market of which W W units in hydronic applications constitute a miniscule market segment.

European hydronic system configurations and modeling methods are the most compelling and specifically research funded by the Swedish Energy Agency SEA involving W W GHPs equipped with VS compressors electronic expansion valves and variable frequency drive circulators in hydronic heating applications.

The European Heat Pump Association has reported that more than 127 000 heat pumps were installed in Sweden in 2011 making Sweden the largest market in Europe. While hydronic heating with radiators is the prevalent distribution system new homes utilize in floor heating. According to the SEA the heat pumps installed will supply 22.5 Terawatt Hours TWh of capacity. Of this 15 TWh is free energy from the ground representing 10 of all energy supplied to Swedish buildings. Research which is relevant to this innovation was funded by the SEA and carried out at SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden and Chalmers University of Technology in collaboration with Wilo Grundfos Carrier Uponor and others. The scope of work was to investigate the potential for increased system energy efficiency of heat pumps by applying variable speed capacity control to compressors pumps and fans as well as an overall strategy for on line optimization of the operation with the core focus on GHPs connected to hydronic heating. The SEA study results are consistent with proposed HBSC functions implementing GHP centric hydronic systems in the United States including 

Ground source heat pump source side flow requirements are the key external determinant affecting GHP efficiency. Serial hydronic systems designs for conventional boiler systems are not appropriate for GHP applications since source side flow rate is not optimized for distribution loop flow. This concept is shown in . The connection of the GHP to the hydronic system assumes a primary secondary piping configuration as shown on the left in . The design incorporates a parallel connection which differs from a typical boiler heating system piped in series to the distribution circuit shown on the right in .

This method decouples the heat pump demand circuit from the hydronic distribution so that loop flows are optimal for the respective application. The most energy efficient flow rate for the hydronic loop occurs at the lowest flow rate that will meet building demand. Lower flow rates during heating are possible when the system is designed for the increased PEX tubing density required for RFC operation. The slightly higher materials cost are offset by the benefits incurred lower operating costs reduced noise and erosion and lower head pressure. The hydronic loop Circulator 1 in flow rate should be higher than the demand loop Circulator 2 to insure mixing occurs on the supply side A instead of the return side B. This configuration ensures GHP efficiency based on optimum entering water temperature.

The ideal flow in the demand loop is dependent on the GHP configuration and capacity related to the building load. Contrary to conventional wisdom the optimal design may not optimize the COP rather it should be based on the SPF. COP is the performance ratio of heat supplied to the demand loop compared to the work consumed in a steady state by an electric compression heat pump at a given set of temperature conditions. SPF is the ratio of the heat energy delivered Btu s and the total energy supplied watt hr over a season. While the system heating metric SPFis illustrative cooling system performance would utilize a similar metric such as SPF. SPF differs from COP in that boundary parameters can be established for the Heat Pump SPF Heat Pump System including pumps or fans SPF or the Heating System SPF GHP pumps fans and supplement heating. SPF accounts for intermittent or partial load GHP operation varying operating temperatures and energy expended for ancillary equipment operation. COP can be misleading on predicting actual energy savings. For instance a VS GHP delivers better performance at partial load conditions with an 11 increase in COP. A GHP equipped with a single stage compressor has a 14 19 higher SPFafter considering the energy losses of the Variable Frequency Drive VFD and circulation pumps operating at full speed under partial load conditions. HBSC establishes a demand loop flow rate to optimize SPF yet as a secondary function to the source side circulator.

The dominant control parameter to establish optimal SPFor SPFfor fixed and VS GHPs is source circulator flow rate. This control parameter outweighs the effect of any other parameter depicted in outlining the system boundary conditions for a typical GHP. The demand circuit input data are load return water temperature t the evaporator temperature evaporator superheat required demand capacity and the temperature differential between tand tacross the heat exchanger. The source circuit input data include the source entering water temperature EWT or t brine in the temperature of the refrigerant leaving the condenser the condensing pressure and the evaporator superheat. Controlling the source side flow set point ground loop flow center is the key determinant to GHP efficiency. Varying demand side circulator flow from 60 to 100 capacity affects actual COP by only 1 as compared to the optimal COP. In contrast setting the source circulator speed as a linear function of the compressor speed can improve the SPFas much as 20 for single or two stage W W GHPs or VS GHPs without on board flow center circulator control.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that many changes in construction and circuitry and widely differing embodiments and applications will suggest themselves without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter.

