---

title: Associating a device with a user account
abstract: In one implementation, a server receives a request from a client device to access a user account of a user, wherein the user account provides access to one or more credentials associated with the user. The server determines that the client device is not associated with the user account and transmits a message to the client device prompting the user to provide a biometric identification of the user. The server then receives data representing the biometric identification of the user from the client device. Next, the server determines that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account. Finally, in response to determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account, the server associates the client device with the user account, such that the user is enabled to access the user account, and the associated one or more credentials, from the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172699&OS=09172699&RS=09172699
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09172699
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130501
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 731 887 filed on Nov. 30 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may include the actions of receiving a request from a client device to access a user account of a user wherein the user account provides access to one or more credentials associated with the user. The actions further include determining that the client device is not associated with the user account and in response to determining that the client device is not associated with the user account transmitting a message to the client device prompting the user to provide a biometric identification of the user. Then the actions include receiving data representing the biometric identification of the user and determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account. Finally in response to determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account the actions include associating the client device with the user account such that the user is enabled to access the user account and the associated one or more credentials from the client device. The actions may also include in response to determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account transmitting a certificate associated with the user account from the server to the client device.

In some implementations the actions further include receiving at the server another request from the client device to access the user account of the user that includes the certificate. The actions then include determining that the client device is associated with the user account based on the certificate and then providing access to the user account of the user.

In some implementations after transmitting a certificate associated with the user account from the server to the client device the actions include receiving at the server from the client device a request to perform an action associated with the user account of the user the request to perform an action including the certificate. The actions then include determining that the client device is associated with the user account based on the certificate. In response to determining that the client device is associated with the user account based on the certificate the actions include authorizing the client device to perform the action and storing an indication that the action was performed by the client device wherein the indication is associated with the user account.

In some implementations a given user account may be associated with multiple different client devices. In some implementations a given client device may be associated with multiple different user accounts.

In some implementations determining that the client device is not associated with the user account comprises determining that the request does not include a certificate that is associated with the user account. In some implementations the request may include a client device identifier of a client device and determining that the client device is not associated with the user account may comprise determining at the server that the client device identifier is not associated with the user account.

In some implementations the message may prompt the user to utter a phrase so as to provide a voice sample of the user. In such implementations the actions include receiving the voice sample of the user from the client device and determining that the voice sample of the user matches a voice print of the user. Such implementations further include in response to determining that the voice sample of the user matches the voice print of the user associating the client device with the user account. The phrase may include one or more words randomly selected by the server from one or more dictionaries. Alternatively or in addition the phrase may be selected by the user.

Some implementations involve transmitting the message to the client device for in app display on the client device.

Some implementations involve transmitting the message via email to an email address associated with the user account. In such implementations the actions may further include determining that the voice sample of the user comprises an utterance of the phrase from the email transmitted to the email address associated with the user account and associating the client device with the user account in response to determining that the voice sample of the user matches the voice print of the user and in response to determining that the voice sample of the user comprises an utterance of the phrase from the email transmitted to the email address associated with the user account.

In some implementations the message prompts the user to provide one or more of an iris scan a fingerprint scan or a facial scan. In such implementations the actions include receiving from the client device one or more of the iris scan the fingerprint scan or the facial scan of the user and determining that the iris scan the fingerprint scan or the facial scan of the user matches an iris image a fingerprint image or a facial image of the user respectively. Finally the actions include in response to determining that the iris scan the fingerprint scan or the facial scan of the user matches an iris image a fingerprint image or a facial image of the user respectively associating the client device with the user account.

Some implementations involve transmitting from the server to an email address associated with the user account an alphanumeric code receiving the alphanumeric code from the client device and in response to determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account and determining that the alphanumeric code received at the server matches the alphanumeric code transmitted from the server to the email address associated with the user associating the client device with the user account.

Other features may include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs encoded on computer storage devices configured to perform the foregoing actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In some instances representations of credentials for groups of users or for individuals are generated. The credentials can be for example identity credentials driver s licenses passports visas police badges etc. health insurance cards loyalty cards badges reflecting membership in a group e.g. employees of a company graduates of a college gym club memberships etc. badges to gain entrance to a location or event a ticket for entry to a location or event a key that unlocks a lock e.g. for entry to a location etc. Credentials can be maintained on and or accessed from mobile credential management applications executing on client devices and credentials can be represented in various forms as described below. For example credentials can be represented by parametrically generated graphical representations animated graphical representations phrases numeric representations and or optical machine readable representations e.g. bar codes or QR codes . A server or collection of servers can manage and distribute credentials to appropriate users client devices.

A mobile credential management application may enable users to access their credentials from multiple client devices. To prevent fraudulent use of a user s credentials from a client device the mobile credential management application may require the user to authenticate their identity and register each of the user s client devices with a credential management server. The credential management server may issue a certificate to each of the user s client devices such that the credential management server can recognize the client devices as having been registered with the user s account.

In operation the server manages and or stores one or more credentials associates users and groups of users with appropriate credentials grants access to user accounts and provides credentials to users client devices and or processing systems e.g. operated by credential authorities . The server can be any suitable computer or collection of computers executing software capable of managing distributing and or validating representations of credentials for users and groups of users via a network as described herein.

Credentials user accounts group accounts and administrative accounts can be stored in a database e.g. MySQL PostgreSQL MS SQL Server MongoDB or other suitable data structure that can be accessed by the server . In some implementations the server may access the stored credentials and or user accounts via web services such as representational state transfer REST style services.

As an initial step the server creates a credential based on input provided by a credential grantor e.g. an employer . The credential may include a variety of information such as a credential identifier e.g. a number or alphanumeric character string that uniquely identifies a credential a description of an event or location and one or more designated validation entities.

The server may present a suitable interface to the credential grantor for creation of credentials. For example the server may present a web interface through which grantors can interact via a Web browser. In other aspects the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application running on a mobile device. Any suitable interface can be used that enables the creation and storage of credentials and user accounts. In addition or as an alternative to creation of credentials by credential grantors credentials could be created at the request of registered users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable mechanism such as sending email or short message service SMS transmissions to grantors. In some implementations registered users may be able to create credentials by use of an application running on a client device.

The server also may present an interface so that users and or credential grantors can create user accounts for individual users and groups of users. For example the server may present a web interface through which credential grantors can interact via a Web browser. Additionally or alternatively the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application on a mobile device. User accounts may be stored in a table or collection of tables in a database or in any other suitable data structure accessible by the server . The user accounts may include a variety of information such as user name user title user identifier e.g. a number or character string that uniquely identifies a user one or more addresses e.g. email addresses and or mobile phone numbers identifiers of one or more client devices owned by or otherwise associated with the user and or certificates associated with client devices. In some implementations as described below user accounts may also be associated with a biometric profile of the user. In addition or as an alternative to creation of user accounts and groups by grantors user accounts and groups can be created at the request of potential users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS to grantors. In some implementations the potential users may be able to create user accounts by use of an application running on a client device .

To create a new user account with the server the credential management application may require a new user to complete an initial account registration. As part of the initial account registration process the new user may be required to provide biometric information e.g. a voice sample fingerprint retina scan and or facial scan etc. to the mobile credential management application which can be transmitted to the server . Subsequently the server can generate a biometric profile of the user based on the biometric information and associate the biometric profile with the user s account. For example the user may be required to provide a voice sample by uttering a phrase into a microphone of the user s client device . The client device may transmit this voice sample to the server which can extract features from the voice sample to generate a voice print that identifies the user. The mobile credential management application may automatically register the client device from which the new user completes the initial account registration process as an authorized device for the new user s account.

Upon completion of initial account registration the server may transmit a certificate to the client device that was used for the registration for example via the network . The server also may associate the certificate with the user s account and the particular client device. For example the server may store the certificate in a memory structure e.g. a file system or database and add an entry to the user s account identifying the certificate. A certificate may be for example a public key certificate and or an authorization certificate. In some implementations a certificate may be in a format specified in the X.509 ITU T standard.

A public key certificate may be an electronic document that uses a digital signature to bind a public key with an identity. In particular a public key certificate may include information such as a unique certificate identifier a user name or user account number a signature algorithm RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA or Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm ECDSA a signature an issuer name and a public key. The public key certificate can be used to verify that a public key belongs to a user. In a typical public key infrastructure scheme the signature will be of a certificate authority. In a web of trust scheme the signature is of either the user a self signed certificate or other users. In either case the signatures on a certificate are attestations by the certificate signer that the identity information and the public key belong together.

An authorization certificate may be an electronic document that includes authorization information associated with a holder of the certificate. For example the authorization certificate may indicate that the holder of the certificate is authorized to access a resource service or location. In particular an authorization certificate may include information such as an issuer name a signature algorithm a signature a unique certificate identifier and identifiers of the resources services or locations that the certificate authorizes access to.

An individual may be able to access the individual s user account and credentials from multiple different client devices. When a user attempts to login to the application from a client device that the user has not previously registered with the credential management server the credential management application may recognize the client device as a new device. For example the application may determine that the new device lacks a certificate from the server by querying a memory location where the certificate would be stored. As a result of determining that the device is a new device before allowing the user to access the user s account the credential management application may require the user to authenticate himself herself at the new device.

In particular the mobile credential management application may require the user to provide biometric identification e.g. an utterance fingerprint retina scan and or face scan etc. . For example the credential management application may prompt the user to utter a phrase. As referred to herein a phrase may be a sequence of two or more words selected from one or more dictionaries of words that need not form a grammatical construct. A dictionary as used herein is a data structure in which index values identify words. A given dictionary may include many thousands of different words. In some implementations the application on the client device may select a phrase based on an index that can be randomly generated or generated based on a current time. In some implementations the user may utter a phrase of their choosing. Alternatively or in addition the server may select a phrase and transmit the phrase to the application on the client device where the phrase can be displayed to the user. Moreover in some implementations rather than transmitting the phrase directly to the mobile application on the client device the server may transmit the phrase to an email address or mobile phone number via SMS for example associated with the user account. Advantageously transmitting the phrase in this manner may provide an additional level of authentication because the user will have to access the email account or SMS inbox to obtain the phrase.

When the user utters the phrase into a microphone of the client device the application may encode the utterance and transmit data representing the utterance to the server . The server can then perform speaker recognition on the phrase uttered by the user to authenticate the user. For example the server can retrieve a voice print associated with the user s account from a memory structure e.g. a file system or database and then compare the characteristics of the utterance with the user s voice print. Alternatively or in addition the client device may obtain a voice print of the user e.g. receive the voice print from the server or from a third party server that stores user voice prints and then perform speaker recognition using the obtained voice print.

Alternatively or in addition the user may provide an iris image a fingerprint image and or a facial image for authentication. For example the user may take an image of the user s eye or face using a camera attached to the client device . The image may then be transmitted to the server for verification or verified on the client device . In some implementations the client device may have a fingerprint scanner operatively coupled to the device in which case the user may provide a scan of one or more fingerprints. The fingerprints can then be transmitted to the server for verification or verified on the client device .

In some implementations the mobile credential management application may employ multi factor authentication to authenticate a user at a new device. For example the user may have to provide two or more inputs to authenticate a new device. These inputs may include any suitable combination of an utterance an alphanumeric code sent to an email address associated with the user account an iris scan a fingerprint scan and or a facial scan. For example the server may transmit an alphanumeric code to an email address or mobile phone number via SMS for example associated with the user account and require both the alphanumeric code and an utterance that matches the voice print associated with the user account to register a new device.

Multiple different users may be able to register the same client device for use with multiple different user accounts respectively for example if several users share the same client device. In particular each user may login to their user account from the same client device and authenticate himself herself and receive a certificate associated with their user account as described above. The client device may then store the certificates for the different users in memory. When a user attempts to access the user s user account from the client device the application can then retrieve the relevant certificate for the user.

Some implementations may include a master client device associated with a user account that has additional privileges. For example the master client device may have the capability to confirm that a client device may be registered with a user account and or may be able to deactivate registered client devices. In particular when a user attempts to login to the user s user account from a new device in addition to the biometric verification discussed above the server may notify the master client device and require confirmation from the master client device prior to registering the new device. The master client device also may deactivate a client device registered with a user account for example by transmitting a deactivation message to the server which then removes the client device from a list of client devices that are permitted to access the user account. The master client device may be the original client device used to setup the user account by default or may be another device chosen by the user. In some implementations the server may require additional levels of authentication to setup or change a master client device. For example if the server requires only an utterance to register a normal client device the server may require both an utterance and an alphanumeric code transmitted to an email address associated with the user account to establish e.g. register or change a master client device.

Upon successful authentication the server registers the new device as an authorized device for the user s account and transmits a certificate to the new device as described above. The certificate subsequently enables the application to recognize the device as having been registered with the user s account.

In some implementations a user can have the certificate deleted from a client device. This may provide additional security by causing a user to perform another authentication to access their user account from the device. For example the client device may automatically delete a certificate from a client device when a user logs out of the user s account from the device. Alternatively or in addition the user may cause a certificate to be deleted from a client device as part of deactivating the client device from a master client device as described above. In addition a user may choose to delete a certificate from a client device as an option when the user is logged into their user account from the device.

As an example Mr. John Smith user may request to setup a new user account on the server using an application executing on his work client device . The client device prompts Mr. Smith to provide biometric information e.g. an utterance a fingerprint facial scan and or iris scan which is transmitted to the server . The server can then create database entries representing a user account for Mr. Smith where the user account includes a biometric profile incorporating the provided biometric information. A credential grantor could then create a row in another table for a group identified as employees of Company X. The grantor and or server could then link the database entry for Mr. Smith to the group account for Company X through use of a linking table. Finally the server may transmit a certificate to the client device that allows Mr. Smith to access his new user account from device without providing biometric identification.

Subsequently Mr. Smith attempts to access his user account using a credential management application on his personal client device . The client device or the server recognizes that the client device is not registered with his user account e.g. by determining that the client device lacks a certificate associated with the user account . Accordingly the application on client device prompts Mr. Smith to provide biometric information to verify his identity. The client device then transmits this biometric information to the server which compares the biometric information with the biometric profile associated with Mr. Smith s account to verify Mr. Smith s identity. Finally the server transmits a certificate to Mr. Smith s personal client device thus enabling Mr. Smith to access his user account from device .

Once credentials and user accounts have been created credential grantors and or users can associate the credentials with user accounts or groups of users. For example the server may present a web interface through which grantors can interact via a Web browser to link a given credential to a given user or group of users. In other aspects the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application on a mobile device. Credentials may be associated with users or groups of users for example by generating a credential identifier for a given user or group of users and associating the credential identifier with the user or group of users by storing an entry for the credential identifier as a database entry related to a credential. In addition to association of credentials to users and groups of users by grantors registered users also may request that certain users or groups of users be associated with certain credentials through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS transmissions to grantors. In some implementations users may be able to associate their user accounts with one or more credentials by use of an application running on a client device. Furthermore the server also may notify the users that they have been associated with the credential s for example by pushing notifications to the respective users client devices. Such notifications may include the credential identifier.

Once credentials have been associated with appropriate user and or group accounts the credentials can then be distributed to client devices for the appropriate users via the network . For example the network may be a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet. In some versions the server may communicate with the client devices via SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS . The server may access user accounts in a database to locate the appropriate users client devices.

Credential management applications executing on client devices and can receive the credentials associated with their respective users and store them in any suitable memory for later retrieval. A given user may be associated with multiple different credentials. Some or all of the credentials associated with a user may be accessible on a user s client device and . In particular mobile credential management applications executing on the client devices can then retrieve the credentials so they can be used for generating and presenting a representation of the credential to a validation entity for validation. The client devices may be any type of computing device including but not limited to a mobile phone smart phone PDA music player e book reader tablet computer laptop or desktop computer or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable storage media. The software application can be written in any suitable programming language such as for example Objective C C Java etc.

In some implementations each time a user attempts to access a user account e.g. to present credentials or manage a user account from a client device the client device may transmit a request for authorization to the server . If the client device has previously been associated with the user account the client device may have a certificate stored in memory which can be included with the request to the server . The server then can verify that the client device was associated with the user account by confirming the validity of the certificate. For example the server may confirm that information in the certificate e.g. a certificate serial number and or signature matches information from a certificate previously issued by the server that is associated with the user s account. If the server verifies that the client device is associated with the requested user account the server may grant access to the account for example by transmitting a message to the client device including the requested information.

In some implementations the server may monitor usage of each registered client device. For example each time a user logs into the user s user account from a registered client device the server may store an entry in a memory structure e.g. a database or a flat file storing details of what device was used and where and when the user logged in e.g. a device identifier a user name user account identifier email address location date and or time . In particular when a client device submits a login request the request may include a current location of the client device for example based on GPS coordinates Wi Fi access point triangulation data cellular network triangulation data or IP address information. The server may also store entries when a client device outputs a representation of a credential for validation e.g. displays a badge or signs a document using a credential. For example when the credential management application on a client device outputs a representation for a credential or signs a document using a credential the client device may transmit information to the server describing the use e.g. a device identifier a user name user account identifier the type of use email address location date and or time . Alternatively or in addition when a credential is presented for validation a processing system operated by the validation entity may transmit the usage information to the server . The server may then store an entry including these details.

Additionally the server may provide access to the account usage information. For example when a user logged into a registered client device requests account usage information e.g. by activating command button in to display device management information the client device may request account usage information from the server . The server retrieves the account usage information associated with the account e.g. by querying a database or accessing a flat file and then transmits the requested information back to the client device . The client device can then display the account usage information on a user interface for example as shown in .

For example the client device of user is executing an application that displays a user interface similar to the user interface shown in including a user wallet that allows the user to select from among various credentials. The client device of user is executing an application that displays a user interface such as the employee badge shown in . The user interface includes a quick response QR code. User at the front of the entry line has presented the QR code for validation to the validation entity . The validation entity is a security guard responsible for permitting only authorized individuals to enter the place of business. The credential for accessing the place of business may be represented in a variety of different formats described below and the validation entity may be able to validate representations of the credential in any of these different formats.

In some implementations the client device may obtain the user s image from for example a memory of the client device or a server such as the server . The client device may display this image before after and or during presentation of the optical machine readable representation for authentication of the user .

After a user logs into a user account from the user s client device e.g. by transmitting a request for access to the server that includes a certificate the user may operate their client device to present representations of credentials for validation. For example the user may input a command into the user s client device via a man machine interface e.g. a user interface on a presence sensitive display to select a desired credential. The credential management application executing on the client device then generates and outputs the selected representation to a validation entity for validation.

The representation of a credential may take a variety of different forms. For example the representation may be an alphanumeric code a sound signal e.g. an audible sound signal or an ultrasonic sound signal an optical machine readable representation e.g. a barcode or a quick response QR code a parametrically generated graphical representation an animated graphic representation and or a phrase among others.

As referred to herein an alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a credential and a user. In some instances a given alphanumeric representation will only be valid for a certain time period. In operation applications for credential validation execute on the client device and the processing system . The server associates an alphanumeric code with a user and a credential and distributes the alphanumeric code to the user s client device . When the user presents the alphanumeric code to the validation entity the processing system can validate the alphanumeric code by communicating with the server and receiving a response indicating whether the presented alphanumeric code matches a valid alphanumeric code e.g. an alphanumeric code that currently is associated with a user to whom a valid credential has been granted at the point in time the processing system communicates the alphanumeric code to the server .

As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation may be a bar code a QR code or an Aztec code among other optical machine readable representations. The optical machine readable representations may encode data including or representing credential identifiers and any other suitable data. In other implementations the optical machine readable representations may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers. As an example credential identifiers for the users may be encoded using QR codes.

The client device may use any suitable technique for encoding the optical machine readable representation. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes QR codes in accordance with the QR code International Organization for Standardization ISO standard ISO IEC 18004 2006 RSS Information technology Automatic identification and data capture techniques QR Code 2005 bar code symbology specification.

When the client device displays an optical machine readable representation the validation entity can operate the processing system to scan the portion of the client device s display showing the representation and decode the representation to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the representation. In particular the processing system may provide a user interface that includes a reticle defining a field of view from a camera operatively coupled to the processing system . This reticle can be used by the validation entity to scan the optical machine readable representation from the relevant portion of the client device s display .

The processing system may use any suitable mechanism to scan and decode the optical machine readable representation. For example the processing system may access a function or library routine that captures and decodes QR codes and or barcodes using a camera operatively coupled to the processing system . Suitable libraries may include for example RedLaser or Zxing.

The processing system can then validate the optical machine readable representation by communicating data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the representation to the server . In response the processing system receives a response indicating whether the presented optical machine readable representation corresponds to a credential that currently is associated with a user to whom a valid credential has been granted at the point in time the processing system communicates the alphanumeric code to the server .

As described herein a sound signal is an oscillation of pressure waves transmitted through the air that are modulated to encode information. Any suitable modulation scheme could be used such as for example frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . In some implementations the sound signal may be in the ultrasonic frequency range e.g. greater than about 20 kHz. In some implementations the sound signal may be in the audible frequency range e.g. about 20 Hz to about 20 kHz.

The sound signal may encode data including or representing credential identifiers and any other suitable data. In other implementations the sound signal may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers. As an example credential identifiers for the users may be encoded using sound signals. The client device may use any suitable technique for encoding the sound signal. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes data into sound signals such as the Zoosh SDK by Naratte Inc. The client device can then output the sound signal from a speaker coupled to the client device for reception by the processing system .

When the client device outputs a sound signal the validation entity can operate the processing system to receive the sound signal at a speaker of the processing system and decode the sound signal to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. The processing system may use any suitable mechanism to receive and decode the sound signal. The processing system can then validate the alphanumeric characters by communicating with the server . In response the processing system receives a response indicating whether the alphanumeric characters encoded in the sound signal correspond to a credential that is currently is associated with a user to whom a valid credential has been granted at the point in time the processing system communicates the alphanumeric characters to the server .

As referred to herein a parametrically generated graphical representation may be a visual display that is generated using one or more parameters as inputs to one or more mathematical equations such as a three dimensional rendering of an object or an image of a fractal. In certain implementations the parameters can be generated from seed values such as a credential identifier and a time. In operation the client device can obtain a credential identifier e.g. from a memory of the client device and a time e.g. from a timing device of the client device and generate a parametrically generated graphical representation for the credential using the credential identifier and time as seed values. Similarly for validation the processing system obtains a credential identifier and a time and generates a parametrically generated graphical representation for the credential in the same manner. When the timing device at the processing system is synchronized with the timing devices at client device the parameters generated at the processing system should be identical or nearly identical to those of the client device when the credential identifiers are the same. The graphical representation generated by processing system should therefore match the graphical representations on the client device allowing the validation entity to visually validate the credential on the client device .

As referred to herein an animated graphical representation may be for example a hypertext markup language HTML animation animated graphical interchange format GIF file Motion Pictures Expert Group MPEG file Adobe Flash animation or any combination thereof. An animation may be for example a sequence of images defined by one of these files. Applications executing on the client device may access the stored graphical representations by way of index values where an index value may correspond to a single representation. In operation a client device obtains a credential identifier e.g. from a memory of the client device and a time e.g. from a timing device of the client device and selects an animated graphical representation for the credential by using the credential identifier and the time to generate an index value. Similarly for validation the processing system obtains a credential identifier and a time and selects an animated graphical representation for the credential in the same manner. When the timing device at the processing system is synchronized with the timing device at client device the index values generated at the processing system should be substantially identical to those of the client device when the credential identifiers are the same. The graphical representation selected by processing system should therefore match or nearly match the graphical representations on the client devices allowing the validation entity to visually validate the credential on the client device .

A phrase may be a sequence of two or more words selected from one or more dictionaries of words that need not form a grammatical construct. In operation applications for credential validation executing on the client device and the processing system can access a common set of dictionaries for generating phrases so that when the applications reference the same index values in the same dictionaries at substantially the same time they can select the same phrases. Thus the processing system displays the same phrase as the client devices which enables the validation entity to validate the phrases at the client device .

When the server receives a validation request message from the processing system it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. In particular the server may decode a set of alphanumeric characters and or parse an alphanumeric code to obtain the credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message with data associated with the retrieved credential. For example the server may determine that a user identifier included in the validation request corresponds to an authorized user of the credential. In some implementations the processing system may perform some or all of the validation of the representations for the credential.

In some implementations if the credential representation is validated the validation response may include an image a name and or other data relating to the validated user including e.g. a copy of the user s credential. The server may obtain information relating to the user e.g. an image of the user from the credential grantor as described above. For example the processing system may display the user s name and the user s image. In some implementations responsive to receiving a validation response from the server the processing system may obtain the user s image from for example a memory of the processing system the server a server made accessible by the credential grantor or another server. The processing system may then output the user s image to a display operatively coupled to the processing system .

Upon successful validation the server sends the processing system a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the set of alphanumeric characters decoded from the representation matches a set of alphanumeric characters generated at the server . The processing system may then provide an indication to the validation entity that the representation presented by the user was valid. The validation entity may then permit the user to enter the place of business.

While shown in as a person the validation entity can be any agent capable of validating representations of credentials presented by users. As an example the validation entity could be a software application executing on the processing system that processes a representation for a credential received from a client device decodes the representation to generate an alphanumeric set of characters transmits the alphanumeric set of characters to the server and receives a response from the server indicating that the representation is valid. The software application could then control an automated gate to permit user to enter. The processing system can also be any suitable computer or set of computers capable of communicating with the server via network such as a mobile phone smart phone PDA tablet computer laptop or desktop computer or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable media.

Representations for multiple credentials may be displayed and or presented concurrently. This may be implemented for example when credentials represent a hierarchy of access. As an example if Mr. John Smith is an employee of MicroStrategy Incorporated and also is authorized to access the Executive Suite of MicroStrategy s headquarters he may have two credentials i.e. a first credential identifying Mr. Smith as an employee who is authorized to enter the headquarters and a second authorizing Mr. Smith to access the Executive Suite. In such implementations representations for the first credential and the second credential may both be presented at the same time or in series so that a validation entity can permit Mr. Smith access to the Executive Suite.

Initially a user operates a client device to attempt to access a user account of a credential management application. The client device transmits a message to the server requesting account access e.g. by providing an email address or username and a password . In response in step the server determines that the requesting client device is not currently associated with the specified user account. The server then transmits a message to the client device notifying the user that the client device is not currently associated with the account and prompting the user to provide biometric identification e.g. an utterance facial scan iris scan and or fingerprint to authenticate the user. As discussed above the user provides the requested biometric identification and the client device transmits this information to the server in message .

Upon confirming that the provided biometric identification matches a biometric profile associated with the user account the server associates the client device with the user account in step . For example the server may compare characteristics of an utterance from the user with a voice print to confirm the identity of the user. Once the client device is registered with the user account the server transmits a certificate to the client device in message . Subsequently the client device can access the user account using the certificate without having to provide biometric identification. The process described in relation to the messages in could be repeated for multiple different users of the client device to register the device with their accounts. In addition this process could be repeated at multiple different client devices for the same user to register the different client devices with his her user account.

In step the server determines that the client device is not associated with the user account. For example the server may determine that the request from the client device does not include a certificate associated with the user account. Alternatively or in addition the request may include a client device identifier of the client device and the server may determine that the client device identifier is not associated with the user account.

In response to determining that the client device is not associated with the user account in step the server transmits a message to the client device . The message prompts the user to provide biometric identification. For example the message may prompt the user to utter a phrase so as to provide a voice sample. The phrase may be one or more words randomly selected by the server or the client device from one or more dictionaries or may be chosen by the user. The message may be transmitted for in app display on the client device or may be transmitted via email to an email address associated with the user account. Alternatively or in addition the message may prompt the user to provide a fingerprint provide an iris scan and or provide a facial scan.

In step the server receives data representing biometric identification of the user from the client device . For example the server may receive data encoding a voice sample corresponding to an utterance of a phrase a fingerprint an iris scan and or a facial scan. The server then determines that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account in step . For example the server may determine that the voice sample of the user matches a voice print of the user. In implementations where the phrase was transmitted to an email address associated with the user account or some other destination accessible by the user associated with the user account the server may also perform speech recognition to determine whether the voice sample of the user corresponds to an utterance of the phrase from the email transmitted to the email address associated with the user account. Alternatively or in addition the server may determine that a fingerprint from the client device matches a fingerprint associated with the user account that an iris scan from the client device matches an iris image associated with the user account and or that a facial scan from the client device matches a facial image associated with a user account.

Finally in response to determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account the server associates the client device with the user account in step . As a result the user is enabled to access the user account and the associated one or more credentials from the client device . In some implementations after determining that the data representing the biometric identification of the user matches a biometric profile of the user associated with the user account the server transmits a certificate associated with the user account to the client device .

After the client device has been associated with the user account the client device may send a second request to access the user account where the second request includes a certificate associated with the user account. The server receives this second request from the client device and determines that the client device is associated with the user based on the certificate e.g. by comparing information in the transmitted certificate with information accessed by the server for a corresponding certificate associated with the user account . The server then provides the client device with access to the user account.

After the client device has been associated with the user account the client device may transmit a request to the server to perform an action associated with the user account where the request may include a certificate. For example the client device may request to access credentials associated with the user account or view usage information of the user account. The server then determines that the client device is associated with the user account based on the certificate. Accordingly the server authorizes the client device to perform the requested action and stores an indication e.g. a database entry or flat file entry that the action was performed by the client device. The server also associates the indication with the relevant user account so that it can be retrieved later.

In some implementations multiple different client devices may be associated with a user account such that a user can access the user s user account from several devices. For example if a first client device is not currently associated with a user account then the user may authenticate the user s identity as described above and receive a certificate on the first client device . Subsequently the user can login to their user account and perform actions e.g. presenting representations for credentials from the first client device. The server can then monitor use of the first client device to access the user account. The user may then authenticate the user s identity and receive a certificate on a second client device which can then be used to login to their user account and perform actions as described above.

In some implementations multiple different users may access their user accounts from the same client device. For example if a client device is not currently associated with a user account of a first user then the first user may authenticate the first user s identity as described above and receive a certificate for the first user s user account on the client device . Subsequently the first user can login to the first user s user account and perform actions e.g. presenting representations for credentials from the first client device. The server can then monitor use of the client device to access the first user account. A second user may then authenticate the second user s identity and receive a certificate for the second user account on the same client device which can then be used to login to the second user s user account and perform actions as described above.

In some implementations the server may transmit an alphanumeric code to an email address associated with the user account to provide an additional level of authentication. The server may receive an alphanumeric code from the client device with a request and then determine whether the alphanumeric code received at the server matches the alphanumeric code transmitted from the server to the email address associated with the user before associating a client device with the user account.

While described as being performed at the server the authentication of the biometric information may be performed partially or completely at the client device. For example the client device may access biometric identification of the user and compare it with biometric information provided by the user.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

