---

title: Activating device using contacting motion sensor
abstract: A signal is provided in response to moving contact of a device with an object. Electronic circuitry transitions from an inactive state to an active state in response to the signal and scans a machine-readable code borne by the object. A data signal including or encoding the machine-readable code is provided. The electronic circuitry may transition from the active state back to the inactive state after the data signal has been provided and the present code scanning operation is complete. Power consumption by code scanner devices, user input stylus, or other apparatus is reduced accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08915445&OS=08915445&RS=08915445
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08915445
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130917
---
Code scanners and readers are used to read optical barcodes radio frequency identification RFID tags and so forth in numerous areas of endeavor. Many such code scanners are built as portable battery powered devices. Users seek to reduce energy consumption and extend battery life with respect to various code scanners and other devices.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Code scanners are devices used for reading machine readable codes borne by various objects. Many such devices are designed with handheld portable form factors and operate by way of rechargeable or disposable batteries. Additionally numerous multi purpose devices such as tablet computers smart phones and so on are equipped or resourced to read different types of machine readable code. For example an application i.e. program software may enable a smartphone to read a two dimensional optical code presented by an advertising display by way of a camera of the smartphone.

In one instance a device reads barcodes or other visibly encoded information using light energy emitted from the device wherein a portion of that light is reflected off of the barcode or other encoded image. Generally a contrasting light and dark pattern of the reflected light conveys the specific value of the barcode which is received by a detector or sensor of the device. A controller or other resource interprets an electrical signal from the detector and derives the underlying encoded value or information. Thus the barcode is illuminated by one or more light emitters powered by the code scanner device. However in some implementations ambient light may be used and the code scanner device may omit the one or more light emitters.

In another instance a device reads information encoded by a non optical tag such as a radio frequency identification RFID tag near field communication NFC tag and so forth. The device emits a radio frequency RF energy field proximate to the RFID tag which communicates the encoded information back to the device by way of a modulated reflected portion of the RF energy known as backscatter . A controller or other resource interprets a scan signal from an RF detector and determines the underlying encoded value. Therefore the RFID tag is illuminated by an energy field powered by the code scanner device. Other implementations and operating techniques may also be used.

Battery life is a concern of users that employ portable devices to scan machine readable codes borne by various objects. In several cases the code scanner device itself must emit light an RF field acoustic waves or another energy type in order to acquire the encoded information. Additionally electronic circuitry of the code scanner requires electrical power in order to interpret the reflected or modulated portion of the emitted energy provide a corresponding data signal and so forth. For example a camera used to scan an optical machine readable code may draw power.

Extending operation time using power stored in an onboard battery is desirable for many devices. Reducing energy consumption within code scanners or the scanning resources of multi purpose devices provides several benefits. These benefits may include improved user experience by increasing overall operating time between recharging sessions enabling operation of devices which do not require recharging during their planned operational lifespan increasing power available for other components and so forth.

A code scanner includes a motion sensor that makes physical contact with an object bearing a machine readable code or information. The motion sensor provides an electrical signal in response to relative motion between the code scanner and the object which is in contact with the motion sensor. The electrical signal causes the electronic circuitry of the code scanner to switch from an inactive state to an active operating state. Relative to the operating state electrical power consumption of the electronic circuitry is low when in the inactive state which conserves battery based energy resources.

The electronic circuitry then sends a signal to detecting or scanning resources such as a light emitter and sensor pair an RF energy field generator an acoustic wave generator or another suitable resource so as to begin operating. The resource s provides a scan signal based on the detection of the machine readable code borne by the object. A controller processor or other elements of the electronic circuitry interprets or processes the scan signal and provides a data signal that includes or encodes information corresponding to the machine readable code borne by the object. Once the code scanning and data signal provisioning are complete the electronic circuitry or a majority portion thereof resumes the inactive state so as to conserve electrical power.

In one non limiting example a barcode scanner is in the form of a handheld casing and is powered by a rechargeable battery. Respective rotatable wheels are disposed on either side of a light emitter and detector pair. A user holds the scanner with the wheels in contact with the surface of a merchandise item i.e. object bearing a barcode and moves the scanner relative thereto such that the wheels roll across the item surface. The rotating wheels cause respective direct current motors acting as generators to produce electrical voltages. The electrical voltages are provided to a controller of the scanner as activation signals. The controller responds to the activation signals by signaling other electronic circuitry and resources into an energized active operating state.

In turn the light emitter produces a light beam that is incident upon the barcode of the merchandise item as the scanner passes by. The detector detects reflected light from the barcode and provides a corresponding scan signal to the controller. The controller interprets the scan signal and produces a digitally encoded data signal including the barcode value. Once this data signal had been provided the controller signals the scanning circuitry to resume the inactive state until the next scanning operation is called for by way of rolling contact of the wheels with another object to be scanned.

In another non limiting example an RFID scanner is provided as an accessory for and is powered by the battery of a tablet computer. An electromechanical switch includes a member portion that extends outward away from the scanner. The member portion is spring biased to assume a resting position when not being displaced by contact with another object. A user holds the scanner with the member in contact with the surface of an object bearing an RFID tag and moves the scanner relative thereto such that the member is displaced toggled or thrown away from the resting position. The switch by virtue of the displaced member provides an electrical activation signal to a controller of the RFID scanner. The controller responds to the activation signal by driving other circuitry or resources into an active operating state.

Next an RF field emitter is energized so as to illuminate the RFID tag borne by the object. An RF sensor detects an RF signal modulated in accordance with the encoded information of the RFID tag. The RF sensor provides a corresponding scan signal to the controller which decodes the scan signal and produces a data signal including the decoded information. Once this data signal had been provided the controller signals the scanner circuitry to resume a de energized inactive state until another scanning operation is triggered by the electromechanical switch.

Optical barcodes RFID tags surface acoustic wave SAW devices and other machine readable encoding techniques may be scanned and read as required by a user while conserving battery power during inactive periods. Additionally RF noise or interference unnecessary energy emissions and other concerns may be addressed accordingly. Rotatable devices such as wheels optically encoded wheels wheels having electrically detectable features spheres spheroids or other suitable constituents may be used as elements of respectively varying motion sensors. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A code scanner is depicted in a front view and includes respective wheels and . The wheels and are mechanically configured to rotate during rolling contact with an object . The code scanner also includes scanner circuitry . The scanner circuitry is configured to be activated in response to a rolling motion rotation of either of the wheels or or both. That is the scanner circuitry is signaled or triggered to switch from an inactive state to an active state in response to moving the scanner with the wheels and in rolling contact with the object . Thus the wheels are respective portions of a motion sensor of the code scanner .

The scanner circuitry is configured to operate by way of electrical power provided by a battery . The scanner circuitry is also configured to consume less electrical energy while in the inactive state relative to the active state. Thus the electrical power drawn from the battery is reduced during an inactive status of the scanner circuitry .

The scanner circuitry is also configured to emit a light beam and to detect a reflected light beam when the scanner circuitry is operating in the active state. The scanner circuitry is further configured to interpret or process light and dark signal content within the reflected light beam so as to decode a machine readable code borne by the object . For instance the machine readable code may be a barcode a two dimensional optical code or another form of optically visually encoded image. Other scanning techniques are also contemplated as described below.

The scanner circuitry is configured to provide a data signal that includes or encodes the machine readable code or information including or corresponding thereto. For example if the machine readable code is an optically readable universal product code UPC then the data signal may be modulated or encoded to communicate the corresponding UPC code number. As depicted the data signal may be communicated to a computing device such as a laptop or desktop computer a server or another suitable entity. The machine readable code may therefore be communicated by way of the data signal for use in object tracking identification authentication inventory control or another suitable purpose.

In another implementation the battery may be omitted and the scanner circuitry may draw operating power from the computing device by way of wired connection thereto. Other power provisioning methods may also be used. In yet another implementation a processor a network communications circuit or other potential resources of the computing device are included within the code scanner . The computing device may therefore be omitted in such an implementation.

The code scanner further includes a housing disposed about and supportive of the scanner circuitry and the battery . The wheels and extend outward from the housing so as to make rotatable contact with the object . The housing may be defined by any suitable shape or form factor such as that of a handheld wand or pistol .

The code scanner is also depicted in a side view . During illustrative operation a user places the code scanner in contact with the object over the machine readable code to be scanned. The code scanner is then moved as indicated by the arrow such that the wheels and roll across the surface of the object . The rotating motion of the wheels and causes an activation signal to be provided to the scanner circuitry which responds by switching from an inactive state to an active state.

The scanner circuitry energizes or drives the light emitter to emit the light beam and illuminate the machine readable code as the code scanner is being moved. The reflected light beam is received by a detector of the scanner circuitry which provides a corresponding scan signal. A controller processor or other resource of the scanner circuitry receives the scan signal and provides the data signal including or otherwise encoding the value or encoded information of the machine readable code .

The scanner circuitry may include a scan complete indicator that produces a flash of light an audible beep or some other signal to a user that the scanning operation is done and successful. Furthermore the code scanner may optically detect the machine readable code within a scan field of view . Once the present operation is complete a user moves the code scanner out of contact with the object such that the wheels and are no longer rotating.

The scanner circuitry responds to the non rotating condition of the wheels and by returning to an inactive state reducing the electrical current drawn from the battery . In another instance the scanner circuitry automatically returns to the inactive state once a predefined time period has expired after successful completion of the scanning operation. In still another instance motion of the code scanner is detected using one or more accelerometers of the scanner circuitry . Therein the scanner circuitry assumes the active state in response to a rotating condition of the wheels but returns to the inactive state after the code scanner has been still for some period of time as indicated by accelerometer signaling. Other state changing or power down procedures may also be used.

As described above the code scanner provides the data signal to the computing device during or as a conclusion to the scanning operation. In another implementation the code scanner may store the decoded machine readable code within machine accessible storage media. The code scanner may then be used for respective scanning operations over the course of for example a workday and then download the respective decoded data thereafter. Other operative scenarios are also possible.

The code scanner includes encoded wheels and . The encoded wheels include respective opaque portions and respective translucent or transparent portions . In one implementation the encoded wheels may be formed using a translucent material such as plastic to which a decal is applied to define the opaque portions . The encoded wheels also include traction edge surfaces or texturing for non slip rolling engagement with the object . In another implementation each encoded wheel may be opaque and includes a pattern having light reflecting portions and light absorbing portions and reflected light is used to detect rotation of the encoded wheel .

Each encoded wheel is configured to block a beam of light from passing through the opaque portions and to pass the beam of light through the translucent portions during rotation of the encoded wheel in cooperation with an optical encoder . As depicted the encoded wheel has opaque portions in accordance with a characteristic pattern. However other respectively varying patterns or designs may also be used.

The code scanner also includes an optical encoder disposed in cooperation with the encoded wheel and an optical encoder disposed in cooperation with the encoded wheel . Each optical encoder is configured to produce or emit a beam of light from a light source that is passed or blocked depending upon the instantaneous angular orientation of the associated encoded wheel . The light source may be a light emitting diode LED an incandescent lamp or another device. The passed or blocked state of the emitted light is detected with a light sensor such as a photo transistor a cadmium sulfide CdS cell or another device.

A particular optical encoder therefore detects pulses or flashes of the emitted light when the associated encoded wheel rotates. Pulses of detected light indicate a rotating encoded wheel while detection of a steadily passed or blocked light indicates a non rotating encoded wheel . The optical encoders are further configured to provide activation signals respectively in accordance with the detected states i.e. rotating or stationary of the encoded wheels . The respective encoded wheel and optical encoder associations may be referred to as motion sensors for purposes herein.

The code scanner includes a controller . The controller may be defined by or include a processor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other suitable electronic constituency. The controller is configured to receive the activation signals and and to assume an activated state in response to one or the other or both. The controller is also configured to provide or assert a drive signal in response to assuming the activate state.

The code scanner also includes a light source configured to emit a light beam in response to the drive signal . The light source may include a laser diode a light emitting diode LED an incandescent lamp or another suitable light emitting element. The emitted light beam is directed toward the machine readable code borne by the object during typical operation. The code scanner also includes light sensor configured to detect or sense a reflected light beam that is a portion of the light beam reflected back from the surface of the machine readable code . The light sensor provides a scan signal corresponding to the light and dark information communicated by the reflected light beam .

The controller receives and processes the scan signal so as to decode the value or information of the machine readable code . In one non limiting implementation the scan signal may be received at a general purpose input output GPIO pin or node of the controller . Other signaling implementations may also be used. The controller provides a data signal that includes or encodes the machine readable code . In one implementation the data signal is equivalent or analogous to the data signal . The controller is further configured to inactivate the light source or the light sensor or both and resume an inactive power conserving state once a present scanning operation is complete.

Specifically a user lifts the code scanner out of contact with the object and the encoded wheels stop rotating accordingly resulting in cessation of the activation signals . The controller may then signal the light source to shut down and the controller assume the inactive condition. Other shutdown procedures may also be used.

In another implementation wheels e.g. are used each having an electrically conductive layer overlaid with an electrically insulating layer. A pattern of holes is defined in the insulating layer such that the conductive layer beneath is exposed at each hole. Electrically conductive fingers or extensions make contact with the conductive layer as a hole comes into cooperative alignment therewith. Thus a make and break electrical switching arrangement is defined which provides an activation signal e.g. in the form of electrical pulses when the corresponding wheel is rotating in contact with the object .

In yet another implementation wheels are used that each have bumps or raised portions defined on one side. Alternatively bumps or depressions may be defined on the wheels edge in a cam like manner. An electromechanical switch is disposed to make contact with the bumps or depressions opening and closing repeatedly as the wheel rotates. Such an electrical switching arrangement also provides a pulse type activation signal e.g. when the corresponding wheel is rotating in contact with the object . Still other implementations directed to using wheels and switching arrangements to generate an activation signal may also be used.

The code scanner includes wheels and . Each wheel includes a friction or traction edge surface so as to make non slip rotatable contact with the object during scanning operations. Various and respective form factors or materials may be used to form the wheels and .

The code scanner also includes a direct current DC motor that is configured and mechanically connected to be turned by rotation of the wheel . Similarly the code scanner includes a DC motor configured to be turned by rotation of the wheel . The DC motors and are each configured to generate an electrical voltage when rotated respectively defining activation signals and . Thus each DC motor which is a form of a rotating electrical machine functions as a DC electrical generating device or dynamo as implemented within the code scanner . Therefore presence of a non zero activation signal is indicative of rotation of a corresponding wheel that is rolling contact with the surface of the object .

Each wheel and DC motor association or cooperative pair may be referred to as a motion sensor for purposes herein. Other forms of motors generators or other electrical elements or devices either alternating current AC or DC in nature may also be used to generate the activation signals . Some such electrical elements may be respective forms of rotating electrical machines linear electrical machines and so forth.

As depicted the code scanner further includes respective clipping diodes and . As depicted each clipping diode may be defined by or include a zener diode. However silicon switching diodes Schottky diodes or other suitable semiconductor devices may also be used. The clipping diodes are selected and configured to suitably limit the voltage range of the associated activation signals by shunting excessive electrical potential to ground. In one non limiting example the clipping diodes are selected to limit the activation signals to within 3.3 0.6 volts with respect to ground. Other suitable electrical parameters may also be used.

The code scanner includes a controller . The controller may be defined by or include a processor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other suitable electronic circuitry. The controller is configured to receive the voltage limited activation signals and and to assume an activated state in response to detected rotation of the wheel or or both. The controller is also configured to provide or assert a drive signal in response to the activated state triggered by the activation signal s .

The code scanner also includes a camera configured to be activated in response to the drive signal . The camera is also configured to provide an image signal corresponding to the appearance or content of images within a field of view . The image signal communicates an image of the machine readable code during scanning operations. The image signal may also be referred to as a scan signal for purposes herein.

The controller receives the image signal and uses it to decode the value of the machine readable code . The controller is configured to provide a data signal that includes or encodes the machine readable code . In one implementation the data signal is equivalent or analogous to the data signal . The controller is further configured to inactivate the camera and to resume an inactive power conserving state once a present scanning operation has been performed.

The code scanner uses respective DC motors to provide the activation signals in turn causing other electronic resources to switch from an inactive state to an active state. Specifically the DC motors generate electrical energy in response to a rotating motor shaft. The DC motors consume no electrical power during inactive or idle periods that is they exhibit zero quiescent current consumption. This contrasts with numerous other motion sensing techniques such as the optical encoders which require a continuous provision of electrical power in order to detect the turning of the associated encoded wheel .

In another implementation one or more wheels e.g. or another rotatable element or elements are supported proximate to a fingerprint reader on a portable computer or other device. A DC motor e.g. is configured to provide an electrical activation signal e.g. in response to a rotation of the wheel . Thus a user may cause the DC motor to signal for activation of the fingerprint reader or other elements of the device by causing the wheel to rotate as they draw their fingertip across the reader. Other implementations using various rotatable devices or elements or motion sensor configurations to provide activation signals may also be used.

The stylus device includes a rotatable or roll able sphere . The rotatable sphere may be made from any suitable material such as synthetic rubber or silicone compounds metal plastic and so forth. The rotatable sphere is constrained within a sphere cage such that a lower portion of the rotatable sphere is disposed to make rolling contact with a surface of an object. In one implementation the rotatable sphere is defined by a surface pattern that enables detection of a rolling motion of the rotatable sphere . In another implementation the surface pattern of the rotatable sphere increases friction in the interest of non slip rolling contact with a surface.

In other respective implementations other types of rotatable device such as wheels encoded wheels spheroids and so forth may be used. The sphere cage is a structure that permits the sphere to rotate or roll while retaining the sphere in fixed location relative to the rest of the stylus . That is the sphere is not translated relative to the stylus when the sphere is in rolling contact with a surface of such an object. Other structures may also be used to rollably support the sphere such as wire frameworks spring loaded contact pads hemispherical shells or walls and so on.

The stylus device also includes a roll detector including a contact . The contact is configured to sense rolling motion of the rotatable sphere by way of incidental vibrations. In one implementation the contact is mechanically coupled to a piezoelectric element that produces an electrical signal in response to sensed vibrations. Other sensing techniques may also be used. The roll detector is configured to provide an activation signal in response to rolling of the rotatable sphere as sensed by the contact . The rotatable sphere and the roll detector association may be referred to as a motion sensor for purposes herein.

In another implementation the rotatable sphere includes a pattern of electrically conductive traces borne on the surface. One or more electrically conductive contacts establish make and break contact with the trace pattern as the rotatable sphere rolls across the surface of an object thus producing a pulsed activation signal . In yet another implementation the rotatable sphere or the sphere cage or both are loaded or biased by way of a spring and may be displaced within a linear range of motion by way of an applied force. A user may bring the stylus device into contact with an object so as to displace the rotatable sphere against the spring such that an electromechanical switch is actuated through contact with the rotatable sphere and the activation signal is provided accordingly. Other implementations using one or more rotatable spheres or variations thereof may also be used to provide an activation signal .

The stylus device also includes a controller . The controller may be defined by or include a processor a microcontroller and so forth. The controller is configured to receive the activation signal and to assume an activated state in response thereto. Thus the controller is activated by way of detected rolling of the rotatable sphere . The controller is also configured to provide a drive signal in response to the activation signal .

The stylus device further includes an optical encoder . The optical encoder is configured to be activated in response to the drive signal . The optical encoder is also configured to determine a direction or orientation of rolling of the rotatable sphere and to provide a corresponding roll direction signal . The roll direction signal is provided to the controller . The controller is also configured to provide a stylus motion data signal that communicates or encodes a direction of motion of the stylus device in accordance with a direction that the rotatable sphere is rolling across a surface.

Also depicted is a media device . The media device includes a processor configured to operate according to a machine executable code. The processor receives the stylus motion data signal and may be further configured to perform or cause respective operations accordingly as illustrated below. The processor is in communication with a display driver of the media device . The display driver is configured to present images text video content indicia and so forth on a display of the media device in accordance with data or control signaling received from the processor . The processor may also communicate with or send control signaling to various other subsystems of the media device which are not germane to the present illustration.

In one illustrative and non limiting operation a user grasps the stylus device which may be implemented having a pen or wand like form factor. The rotatable sphere is brought into contact with the display and rolled across the surface of the display in accordance with user input. For example a user may be running a photo editing application on the media device and using the stylus device to circumscribe a perimeter for cropping a digital photograph. Rolling movement of the rotatable sphere results in the assertion of the activation signal in turn resulting in an active state of the stylus device .

In the present example the stylus motion data signal corresponding to the movement of the stylus device is provided to the processor which provides signaling to the display driver . In turn the display driver causes a curvilinear line to appear on the display in accordance with user movement of the stylus device . A closed perimeter is thus visibly defined about an area within a digital photograph and a cropping operation may then proceed.

Continuing the present example a user then sets the stylus device aside so as to provide input by way of other devices of the media device . The controller responds to a non asserted condition or null value of the activation signal and signals the optical encoder to assume an inactive state. The controller then assumes an inactive state as well. The stylus device is now in a reduced energy consuming inactive condition conserving power drawn from an energy source such as the battery .

The code scanner is associated with a user . In particular the code scanner has a housing and overall form factor defining a handheld device. The code scanner includes the rotatable sphere and the roll detector as respectively described above. Thus the roll detector is configured to provide or assert an activation signal in response to a rolling motion of the rotatable sphere .

The code scanner further includes the light source and the light sensor as respectively described above. The light source is signaled into operation by the controller in response to the activation signal and emits a light beam . The reflected light beam is received by the light sensor which provides a corresponding scan signal to the controller . The controller is configured to process the scan signal and provides a data signal that includes or encodes the machine readable code . For purposes of further illustration the code scanner may operate by way of electrical power provided by the battery .

In particular the user may bring the code scanner into contact with the object at or near to the printed machine readable code e.g. a barcode thereon. For example the machine readable code may correspond to a stock keeping unit SKU code for an item of retail merchandise. The user then moves the code scanner such that the rotatable sphere is in rolling contact with the object along the scanning path . A controller the light source and the light sensor of the code scanner are activated in response to the rolling motion of the rotatable sphere and a machine readable code scanning operation is performed accordingly.

Once the scanning operation is complete the user lifts the code scanner out of contact with the object . Consequently the rolling motion of the rotatable sphere is brought to a halt. The controller causes the code scanner to resume an inactive state reducing electrical current drawn from the battery and conserving power.

The non optical scanner includes an electromechanical switch which includes a member that may defined by or include a lever a slider a cam or another element or elements. The member extends outward from the electromechanical switch and is configured to be displaced from a resting position by moving i.e. sliding contact with an object . The electromechanical switch is configured to provide an activation signal in response to displacement of the member thus indicating contacting motion of the non optical scanner relative to the object . The electromechanical switch may also be referred to as a motion sensor for purposes herein.

The non optical scanner also includes a controller . The controller may be defined by or include and ASIC a microcontroller or other processor or any other suitable constituency. The controller is configured to receive the activation signals and to assume an activated state accordingly. The controller is also configured to provide or assert a drive signal in response to the activated state.

The non optical scanner also includes a non optical transceiver . The non optical transceiver is configured to switch from an inactive state to an active state in response to the drive signal . The non optical transceiver is also configured to provide a non optical energy emission such as without limitation an RF field acoustic waves and so on. For purposes of a present illustration the non optical transceiver is configured to provide RF emitted energy . The non optical transceiver is further configured to receive returned energy that is modulated pulsed or otherwise affected by a non optical coding tag .

In the present illustration the non optical coding tag is an RFID tag or device configured to modulate the returned energy so as to communicate a machine readable code i.e. . For example the non optical coding tag may be configured to communicate an ordering code or model number for a particular industrial control instrument. Other types of non optical coding tags may be used in accordance with other types of emitted energy . Thus the returned energy conveys the ordering code for the particular object being scanned.

The non optical transceiver is further configured to provide a scan signal that communicates the information of the non optical coding tag . The controller receives the scan signal and provides a data signal that includes or encodes the machine readable code of the non optical coding tag . The data signal may be formatted for reception and use by the computing device . For example the data signal may be used to verify the ordering code of the object against compatible ordering codes stored within a data structure and so on.

Once scanning of the non optical coding tag is complete and the data signal has been provided the non optical scanner is moved out of contact with the object . The member returns to a resting position under spring biasing and the activation signal is no longer provided or asserted. The controller signals the non optical transceiver to shut down by way of cessation of the drive signal such that the emitted energy is no longer provided. The controller also assumes a shut down or inactive state reducing overall electrical power draw by the non optical scanner .

The computing device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with the respective scanners or the stylus device various user devices other computing devices and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the computing device or they may be externally placed.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the computing device the respective scanners or the stylus device routers access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device .

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

A communication module is configured to support communication with the respective scanners or the stylus device one or more other computing devices and so forth using one or more networks or other communication pathways. In some implementations the communication module may support encrypted communications. For example hypertext transport protocol secured HTTPS or transport layer security TLS may be supported.

The memory may also include one or more application modules . The applications modules may provide executable code such that various operations or functions may be performed by the computing device . Non limiting examples of the applications modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a digital photograph viewing or editing application and so on.

The memory may further include a scanner interface module configured to support communication with the respective scanners or enable the user to reconfigure or select various operating options of the respective scanners or and so forth. Other modules may also be present. For example a wireless communications module may operate to receive data signals and so on by way of wireless signaling.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store code data which may include machine readable codes e.g. information or other data as received by way of the respective data signals or and so forth. The datastore may also store one or more data structures against which respective ones of the code data are cross referenced or validated. The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include parameter settings for download into and configuration of individuals of the respective scanners or . The other data may also include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block moves a code scanner with a rotatable wheel or wheels in contact with an object . For purposes of a present example the user manually grasps the code scanner and brings the wheels and into contact with a surface of the object proximate to a machine readable code . In the present example the machine readable code includes a SKU barcode printed in ink on the object . The user then moves the code scanner such that the wheels and roll along the surface of the object .

Block provides an activation signal in response to rotation of the wheel s of the code scanner . In the present example the rolling wheels and cause the DC motors and respectively to generate electrical voltages defining activation signals and . The activation signals and are voltage limited by the respective clipping diodes and accordingly.

Block activates a controller and other elements of the code scanner in response to the activation signal . In the present example the controller switches or transitions from an inactive state to an active state in response to the respect activation signals . The controller also provides a drive signal to a camera of the code scanner causing it to assume an active state as well.

Block images a machine readable code using the camera of the code scanner . In the present example the camera captures an image i.e. digital photograph of the machine readable code as the code scanner is passed there over. The camera provides an image signal including the captured image to the controller . Thus an image of the SKU code provided by the machine readable code is communicated to the controller .

Block provides a data signal from the controller to a computing device . In the present example the controller processes the image signal so as to construct digital data encoding the SKU code of the machine readable code . The controller then provides a data signal encoding the SKU code to the computing device . The computing device may now use the data signal during inventory control a point of sale function or other operation.

Block returns the controller and other elements to an inactive state. In the present example the user moves the code scanner out of contact with the object resulting in a stationary condition of the wheels . In turn the DC motors stop generating the activation signals . The controller then discontinues the drive signal causing the camera to return to an inactive low power state. The controller then resumes the inactive state from which it started at block above. The code scanner is now inactive with reduced electrical power consumption if any from a source such as the battery .

Block moves a stylus device in contact with a display of a media device . For purposes of a present example the user holds the stylus device in a pen like orientation and moves the tip in contact with the display of the media device .

Block provides an activation signal in response to a rolling motion of a rotatable sphere of the stylus device . In the present example the contact provides a sensing signal to an associated roll detector in response to the rolling motion of the rotatable sphere . The roll detector responds to the detection by providing or asserting an activation signal . In one implementation the roll detector may include a miniaturized coil and magnet assembly that generates a low voltage electrical signal e.g. millivolts in response to vibrations communicated by the contact . The roll detector may then amplify the low voltage electrical signal thus deriving the activation signal . Other implementations may also be used.

Block activates one or more elements of the stylus device in response to the activation signal . In the present example the activation signal is provided to a controller which responds by switching from an inactive lower power state to an active higher power state. The controller also provides a drive signal to an optical encoder of the stylus device . The optical encoder responds to the drive signal by assuming an activated state and provides a roll direction signal to the controller . The roll direction signal corresponds to a direction that the rotatable sphere is rolling as it traverses the surface of the display .

Block performs one or more actions using the activated stylus device . In the present example the controller may respond to the roll direction signal by providing a stylus motion data signal to a processor of a media device . The processor may then causes lines selection acknowledgment indications or other images to appear on the display corresponding to the user motion of the stylus device . Once an operation or operations using the stylus device are complete the stylus device is set aside by user and the rotatable sphere is no longer in rolling motion. In turn the controller and the optical encoder resume an inactive lower energy state so as to conserve electrical power.

Block moves a non optical scanner with a member in contact with an object . For purposes of a present example the user manually grasps the non optical scanner bringing the member into displaced sliding contact with the object . The user then moves the non optical scanner proximate to a non optical coding tag borne by the object . For instance the object may be an article of clothing for sale in a retail environment bearing an RFID coding tag .

Block provides an activation signal in response to displacement of the member . In the present example the electromechanical switch of the non optical scanner responds to the displaced state of the member by providing an activation signal . Thus the activation signal indicates contacting motion of the non optical scanner with the object .

Block activates the controller and other elements of the non optical scanner in response to the activation signal . In the present example the controller switches or transitions from an inactive state to an active state in response to the activation signal . In turn the controller provides a drive signal to a non optical transceiver which responds by switching from an inactive state to an active state.

Block scans the non optical coding tag using the non optical transceiver . In the present example the non optical transceiver provides radio frequency emitted energy to illuminate or activate the non optical coding tag . The non optical coding tag provides returned energy that has been modulated so as to convey machine readable information e.g. . For instance the non optical coding tag may selectively resonate under the influence of the emitted energy such that the returned energy is an RF backscatter signal digitally encoding a SKU number for the object . The non optical transceiver detects the returned energy and provides a corresponding scan signal to the controller including the machine readable information of the non optical coding tag .

Block provides a data signal from the non optical scanner . In the present example the controller processes the scan signal and derives a digitally encoded value representing or including the machine readable code or information acquired from the non optical coding tag .

Now that the scanning operation is complete the user lifts the non optical scanner out of contact with the object and the member returns to a resting orientation. In turn the activation signal is no longer provided or asserted and the controller responds by ceasing the drive signal . The controller and the non optical transceiver both resume an inactive state ceasing the emitted energy and conserving electrical power until the next scanning event.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain components steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated taken in an alternate order or otherwise rearranged. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium CRSM can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

