---

title: Therapeutic meso-biliverdin IXα compositions and associated methods
abstract: Methods and materials for treating various diseases and medical conditions with meso-biliverdin compositions. In addition methods and materials for producing meso-biliverdin are provided where the methods include reacting phycocyanobilin with an amphoteric compound in a solvent to yield meso-biliverdin are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119842&OS=09119842&RS=09119842
owner: Utah State University
number: 09119842
owner_city: North Logan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 701 465 filed Sep. 14 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application relates to U.S. Pat. No. 8 455 222 issued Jun. 4 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 854 791 filed on Apr. 1 2013 and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 650 842 filed Oct. 12 2012 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to compounds compositions and methods of their production and use. More specifically it relates to meso biliverdin IX MBV methods for MBV production and its use in therapeutic applications.

BV IX is being investigated by numerous research groups as a possible therapeutic for various clinical applications. For example U.S. Pat. No. 8 097 585 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0142751 disclose various therapeutic applications for BV IX . Various methods of producing BV IX are also being investigated as outlined in for example U.S. Pat. No. 8 455 222 by the same primary investigators as in the instant application and in U.S. Pat. No. 7 504 243 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0203762.

Despite the potential benefits of BV IX as a therapeutic additional and alternative therapeutics are desirable.

The present disclosure in aspects and embodiments addresses the above described and other needs and problems by providing MBV shown below compositions methods of using MBV methods of administering MBV and MBV associated treatment methods.

The present disclosure covers methods compositions reagents and kits relating to MBV and associated MBV therapeutics.

In the following description numerous specific details are provided for a thorough understanding of specific preferred embodiments. However those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In some cases well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail in order to avoid obscuring aspects of the preferred embodiments. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in a variety of alternative embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention but is merely representative of the various embodiments of the invention.

In this specification and the claims that follow singular forms such as a an and the include plural forms unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. All ranges disclosed herein include unless specifically indicated all endpoints and intermediate values. In addition optional or optionally refer for example to instances in which subsequently described circumstance may or may not occur and include instances in which the circumstance occurs and instances in which the circumstance does not occur. The terms one or more and at least one refer for example to instances in which one of the subsequently described circumstances occurs and to instances in which more than one of the subsequently described circumstances occurs.

The term pharmaceutical composition as used herein describes a gaseous liquid or solid composition containing an active ingredient such as MBV that can be administered to a patient or an organ. Multiple pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in sequence or combination. The form combination and sequence of pharmaceutical compositions may vary depending on the disease to be treated and the condition of the patient or organ.

The term disease as used herein refers to an abnormal condition affecting the body of an organism or patient. A disease may be caused by external factors or internal dysfunctions and may include any condition that causes pain dysfunction distress or death. Disease includes but is not limited to injuries wounds disabilities disorders syndromes infections symptoms abnormal behaviors and variations in structure or function of a patient or organism.

The term organ s as used herein describes any anatomical part or member having a specific function in an organism. Further included within the meaning of this term are substantial portions of organs such as cohesive tissues obtained from an organ and portions of an organ as small as one cell of the organ. Exemplary organs amenable to the transplantation methods described herein include but are not limited to kidney liver heart large or small intestine pancreas islets lungs bones skin and blood vessels.

The term patient as used herein includes an animal human or non human that is treated according to the methods or with a pharmaceutical composition as described herein.

The terms effective amount and effective to treat as used herein refer to an amount or concentration of a pharmaceutical composition over a period of time that when adminstered to a patient results in an intended benefit or physiological outcome.

The terms treat or treatment as used herein describe delaying the onset of inhibiting or alleviating the effects of a disease.

MBV for use as a pharmaceutical composition may be produced by any suitable method including chemical production or purification from biological sources. MBV a minor biopigment found naturally in various organisms is structural isomer of BV bilirubin phycoerythrobilin and phycocyanobilin. U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 546 442 entitled Meso Biliverdin Compositions Methods and Applications describes at least one suitable production method where MBV is produced microbially. This process includes inter alia cyanobacterial or algal production phycocyanobilin extraction and conversion of phycocyanobilin to MBV.

Any phycocyanin containing cyanobacterial species also known as a blue green alga or rhodophyte or cryptophyte species also known as a red or cryptomonad alga respectively may be used to extract phycocyanin a bile pigment protein complex that efficiently harvests light for photosynthetic metabolism. Phycocyanin comprises phycocyanobilin show below as the bile pigment chromophore which is covalently bound via thiol linkages to the protein component.

Some cyanobacteria and rhodophytes will produce phycocyanin in concentrations up to and including 50 of the total cell soluble protein. Such production may occur when the cyanobacterium rhodophyte or cryptophyte needs to gather as much light as possible for example under low light conditions. As such cyanobacteria rhodophytes and cytophytes with a propensity to produce higher concentrations of phycocyanin are ideally suited for the instant methods. However any phycocyanin containing cyanobacterium rhodophyte or cryptophyte or one or more species may be used. For example the cyanobacterium also referred to as Spirulina may be used.

Any suitable growth medium may also be employed to grow phycocyanin producing cyanobacteria rhodophytes and cryptophytes. For example conventional growth media may also be used. However polluted and or waste waters may also be used. Exemplary polluted and or waste waters include produced sanitary commercial industrial agricultural and or surface runoff waste water. Produced water is contaminated waste water generated from oil and natural gas recovery operations. An estimated 77 billion gallons of produced water was produced world wide in 1999 3 bbl per bbl of crude oil Katib and Verbeek 2003 . Produced water is environmentally unsuitable for discharge into surface waters. By using polluted water sources the water is at least partially cleaned and the bioremediation of the waste water is encouraged.

In some embodiments the waste water is shaken or otherwise treated to eliminate volatile gases. Depending on the nutrient in the water the water may be supplemented with sodium nitrate in amounts of from about 15 to about 3000 mg per L such as about 1500 mg per L and or dibasic potassium phosphate in amounts of from about 2 to about 500 mg per L such as about 200 mg per L.

Growth conditions may include shaking stirring and agitating. The culture is exposed to either natural and or artificial light for periods of two days to two or more weeks depending on nutrient concentrations and culture temperatures. Culture temperatures may be from about 15 C. to about 40 C. such as from about 25 C. to 33 C. or about 26 C.

In some applications rotating algal bioreactors in large quantities of water may be employed to create biofilms as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0217764.

Any suitable extraction method for extracting phycocyanobilin from the cyanobacteria may be used. Although the culture conditions described above may be employed any source of cyanobacteria may be used in the extraction process. If the cells are in a culture medium they must first be harvested or further concentrated. The cells may be lysed and dried or lysed and kept in a slurry paste or partially dried condition. In some embodiments pre dried cyanobacteria rhodophytes or cryptophytes such as pre dried Spirulina may be used as a phycocyanobilin source rather than cultured organisms.

In some embodiments the extraction process may be separated into the following steps 1 phycocyanin extraction 2 cleavage of phycocyanobilin from phycocyanin and 3 phycocyanobilin purification.

Any suitable bacterial cell breakage and fractionation method may be used for extraction and recovery of phycocyanin. For example a slurry containing water and cyanobacterial cells may be prepared by shaking centrifugation to sediment cells cell breakage mechanical or chemical centrifugation to sediment unbroken cells and debris and recovery of non sedimenting cell extract followed by the addition of ammonium sulfate NH SO to precipitate phycocyanin. After incubation and additional centrifugation sedimented dark blue phycocyanin may be collected and washed with a washing solvent for example methanol or ethanol. See e.g. Silveira et al. Optimization of phycocyanin extraction from Spirulina platensis using factorial design 98 8 Bioresour Technol. 1629 34 2007 .

Cleavage of phycocyanobilin from phycocyanin may be undertaken by any suitable method. For example phycocyanin may be boiled in a solvent such as methanol or ethanol under reflux conditions to cleave the bonds between the pigment and protein. See Beuhler et al. Cleavage of phycocyanobilin from C phycocyanin. Separation and mass spectral identification of the products 251 8 J. Biol. Chem. 2405 2411 1976 .

The phycocyanobilin may be further concentrated and purified by centrifugation or other suitable purification method followed by extraction of the phycocyanobilin by a suitable method such as with chloroform. After this extraction the chloroform solution may be added to an organic solvent such as hexane followed by centrifugation to yield pure phycocyanobilin powder.

To yield the desired MBV an isomerization of phycocyanobilin is carried out. In the past isomerization and or oxidation was carried out with potassium hydroxide KOH methanol MeOH and chloroform. See e.g. id. As an alternative to using the caustic and harsh reactants particularly KOH an alternative method of isomerization is described below.

To isomerize phycocyanobilin to MBV phycocyanobilin is dissolved in a solvent along with an amphoteric compound. Suitable amphoteric compounds include for example sodium bicarbonate NaHCO potassium carbonate KCO sodium carbonate and combinations thereof. Suitable solvents include for example ethanol EtOH such as reagent grade ethanol 95 . Similarly tert butyl alcohol may be used as a solvent.

The ratios of the reagents may be varied. In some embodiments 1 to 5 folds such as 3 4 or 5 folds in weight of NaHCOand KCOcompared to phycocyanobilin may be used. A sufficient amount of solvent may be used to dissolve the reactants. For example about 3 mL ethanol may be used with about 5 mg phycocyanobilin.

The reaction is permitted to run for about 12 48 hours such as from about 24 48 hours or about 24 hours at about 80 C. The reaction mixture may be filtered through Celite and the residue was washed and filtered with more ethanol. The solvent may removed to provide the MBV and may be further purified if desired by HPLC.

This isomerization reaction has numerous advantages over prior methods such as the method mentioned above. Advantages include for example 1 avoiding the use of KOH which is caustic and can be difficult to dispose of after product purification and 2 avoiding the use of methanol and chloroform which are toxic and can also be difficult to dispose of after purification.

In some embodiments the entire process of 1 microbial production 2 phycocyanobilin extraction and 3 conversion of phycocyanobilin to MBV may be carried out with natural compounds such as ethanol for a reaction solvent and washing solvent.

MBV produced by the above method or any other suitable method may be used as a therapeutic to treat disease in patients.

In treating patients effective amounts of MBV include for example from about 1 to 1000 micromoles kg day such as at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 or 900 micromoles kg day. In addition effective amounts include amounts that exceed 1000 micromoles kg day. Amounts outside the above described ranges may also be used depending upon the disease to be treated and the patient s response to the treatment.

In some embodiments MBV may be combined with BV IX or heme oxygenase 1 or any other products of heme degradation heme oxygenase 1. MBV may also be combined with Effective Amounts of one or more other pharmaceutically effective compositions such as antibiotics antifungals antivirals anti inflammatories analgesics antipyretics antiseptics antihistamines anti allergics anesthetics vaccines or combinations thereof.

In determining the effective amount of MBV compounds conventional techniques may be employed. For example the toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of MBV compounds may be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals. For instance the LD50 the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED50 the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population may be determined according to these standard pharmaceutical procedures. The therapeutic index may thus be expressed as the ratio LD50 ED50.

The dosage and or a range of dosages for use in humans may be determined from the above described data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies. The dosage of such compounds may lie within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the method described herein a therapeutically effective dose may be estimated initially from cell culture assays and then further formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC50 i.e. the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information may be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma can be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography.

MBV compositions may be induced expressed or delivered to a patient in need of treatment. Conventional routes of delivery include for example oral topical parenteral intravenous subcutaneous intramedullary intranasal rectal or buccal administering. MBV or MBV compositions may also be administered via gene therapy gene transfer or upregulation of MBV production within the patient.

MBV compositions may be delivered alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers vehicles or diluents in a single dose multiple doses or constant infusion. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers vehicles and diluents include inert solid diluents or fillers sterile aqueous solutions and various organic solvents. Adjuvants may also be added to the MBV compositions.

The pharmaceutical compositions formed by combining the MBV compositions and the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers vehicles diluents and or adjuvants are then readily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as tablets powders lozenges syrups injectable solutions and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like.

In oral delivery tablets containing various excipients such as sodium citrate calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate may be employed along with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates together with binding agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials for this include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the essential active ingredient therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matter or dyes and if desired emulsifying or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin and combinations thereof.

For parenteral delivery solutions of the MBV compositions in sesame or peanut oil aqueous propylene glycol or in sterile aqueous solutions may be employed. Such aqueous solutions should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In this connection the sterile aqueous media employed are all readily available by standard techniques known to those skilled in the art.

Topical delivery may also be used for wound treatment in surgical applications for treatment of gastrointestinal disorders or whenever the medication is best applied to the surface of a tissue or organ as determined by the attending physician. For purposes of transdermal administration dilute sterile aqueous or partially aqueous solutions usually in about 0.1 to 5 concentration otherwise similar to the above parenteral solutions may be prepared.

For intranasal delivery or delivery by inhalation the MBV compound may be conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. The pressurized container or nebulizer may contain a solution or suspension of the active compound. Capsules and cartridges made for example from gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of a compound of the invention and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

Increased levels of MBV within a patient or target organ within a patient may be generated via gene therapy or gene transfer. In such treatment techniques a gene therapy vector such as a plasmid virus lentivirus adenovirus adeno associated virus that encodes genes for MBV biosynthesis and with the appropriate expression control sequence or that encodes the appropriate expression control sequence may be administered to a patient or an organ of a patient by any of the administration techniques described above that is appropriate for the administration of the vector.

In some therapeutic applications a combination of multiple inducement administration and or expression techniques may be employed.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a certain amount of active ingredient are known or will be apparent in light of this disclosure to those skilled in this art. For examples of methods of preparing pharmaceutical compositions see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 19th Edition 1995 .

The compositions and methods described herein may be used to treat one or more diseases including for example autoimmune diseases inflammatory diseases infectious diseases renal diseases hepatobiliary diseases heart diseases gastrointestinal diseases respiratory diseases thyroid diseases neurodegenerative diseases venereal diseases and cellular proliferative and or differentiative diseases such as cancer . The compositions and methods may also be used to promote wound healing and surgical transplantation applications.

Exemplary inflammatory diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include any and all diseases where the inflammatory pathways within a patient or organ of a patient have been stimulated are irregular or are in need of some degree of control to aid in the treatment and or recovery of a patient. The types of inflammation that may be treated include but are not limited to acute chronic allergic including conditions involving mast cells alternative degenerative atrophic catarrhal most frequently in the respiratory tract croupous fibrinopurulent fibrinous immune hyperplastic or proliferative subacute serous and serofibrinous. Localized inflammation at a site of bodily trauma injury transplantation or within an organ or portion thereof including for example the gastrointestinal tract kidneys liver heart skin spleen brain kidney pulmonary tract and lungs may be treated according to the compositions and methods described herein.

Exemplary autoimmune diseases and or autoimmune related diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis ADEM Acute necrotizing hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis Addison s disease Agammaglobulinemia Alopecia greata Amyloidosis Ankylosing spondylitis Anti GBM Anti TBM nephritis Antiphospholipid syndrome APS Autoimmune angioedema Autoimmune aplastic anemia Autoimmune dysautonomia Autoimmune hepatitis Autoimmune hyperlipidemia Autoimmune immunodeficiency Autoimmune inner ear disease AIED Autoimmune myocarditis Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune retinopathy Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura ATP Autoimmune thyroid disease Autoimmune urticarial Axonal neuronal neuropathies Balo disease Behcet s disease Bullous pemphigoid Cardiomyopathy Castleman disease Celiac disease Chagas disease Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis CRMO Churg Strauss syndrome Cicatricial pemphigoid benign mucosal pemphigoid Crohn s disease Cogans syndrome Cold agglutinin disease Congenital heart block Coxsackie myocarditis CREST disease Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia Demyelinating neuropathies Dermatitis herpetiformis Dermatomyositis Devic s disease neuromyelitis optica Diabetes mellitus including Type 1 diabetes mellitus Type 2 diabetes gestational diabetes prediabetes latent autoimmune diabetes of adults Discoid lupus Dressler s syndrome Endometriosis Eosinophilic esophagitis Eosinophilic fasciitis Erythema nodosum Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis Evans syndrome Fibrosing alveolitis Giant cell arteritis temporal arteritis Glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis GPA see Wegener s Graves disease Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s encephalitis Hashimoto s thyroiditis Hemolytic anemia Henoch Schonlein purpura Herpes gestationis Hypogammaglobulinemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP IgA nephropathy IgG4 related sclerosing disease Immunoregulatory lipoproteins Inclusion body myositis Insulin dependent diabetes type1 Interstitial cystitis Juvenile arthritis Juvenile diabetes Kawasaki syndrome Lambert Eaton syndrome Leukocytoclastic vasculitis Lichen planus Lichen sclerosus Ligneous conjunctivitis Linear IgA disease LAD Lupus SLE Lyme disease chronic Meniere s disease Microscopic polyangiitis Mixed connective tissue disease MCTD Mooren s ulcer Mucha Habermann disease Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia gravis Myositis Narcolepsy Neuromyelitis optica Devic s Neutropenia Ocular cicatricial pemphigoid Optic neuritis Palindromic rheumatism PANDAS Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH Parry Romberg syndrome Parsonnage Turner syndrome Pars planitis peripheral uveitis Pemphigus Peripheral neuropathy Perivenous encephalomyelitis Pernicious anemia POEMS syndrome Polyarteritis nodosa Type I II III autoimmune polyglandular syndromes Polymyalgia rheumatic Polymyositis Postmyocardial infarction syndrome Postpericardiotomy syndrome Progesterone dermatitis Primary biliary cirrhosis Primary sclerosing cholangitis Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Pyoderma gangrenosum Pure red cell aplasia Raynauds phenomenon Reflex sympathetic dystrophy Reiter s syndrome Relapsing polychondritis Restless legs syndrome Retroperitoneal fibrosis Rheumatic fever Rheumatoid arthritis Sarcoidosis Schmidt syndrome Scleritis Scleroderma Sjogren s syndrome Sperm testicular autoimmunity Stiff person syndrome Subacute bacterial endocarditis SBE Susac s syndrome Sympathetic ophthalmia Takayasu s arteritis Temporal arteritis Giant cell arteritis Thrombocytopenic purpura TTP Tolosa Hunt syndrome Transverse myelitis Ulcerative colitis Undifferentiated connective tissue disease UCTD Uveitis Vasculitis Vesiculobullous dermatosis Vitiligo and Wegener s granulomatosis now termed Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis GPA .

Exemplary infectious diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to bacterial viral fungal parasitic and protozoan infections. In particular the compositions and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent inflammation associated with infection.

Exemplary renal diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to pathologies of glomerular injury such as in situ immune complex deposition and cell mediated immunity in glomerulonephritis damage caused by activation of alternative complement pathway epithelial cell injury pathologies involving mediators of glomerular injury including cellular and soluble mediators acute glomerulonephritis such as acute proliferative glomerulonephritis e.g. poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis and nonstreptococcal acute glomerulonephritis rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis nephrotic syndrome membranous glomerulonephritis membranous nephropathy minimal change disease lipoid nephrosis focal segmental glomerulosclerosis membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis IgA nephropathy Berger disease focal proliferative and necrotizing glomerulonephritis focal glomerulonephritis and chronic glomerulonephritis. Disorders of the kidney also include infections of the genitourinary tract.

Exemplary hepatobiliary diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to cirrhosis and infectious disorders such as viral hepatitis including hepatitis A E viral infection and infection by other hepatitis viruses clinicopathologic syndromes acute viral hepatitis chronic viral hepatitis and fulminant hepatitis and drug and toxin induced liver disease such as alcoholic liver disease.

Exemplary cardiovascular diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include disorders involving the cardiovascular system and circulatory system such as the heart the blood vessels and or the blood. These diseases include but are not limited to congestive heart failure peripheral vascular disease pulmonary vascular thrombotic diseases such as pulmonary embolism stroke ischemia reperfusion I R injury to the heart atherosclerosis heart attacks ischemia and shock.

Exemplary gastrointestinal diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to ileus of any portion of the gastrointestinal tract the large or small intestine inflammatory bowel disease specific inflammatory bowel disease infective specific inflammatory bowel disease amoebic or bacillary dysentery schistosomiasis non infective specific inflammatory bowel disease radiation enterocolitis ischaemic colitis or eosinophilic gastroenteritis non specific bowel disease ulcerative colitis indeterminate colitis Crohn s disease necrotizing enterocolitis NEC and pancreatitis.

Exemplary respiratory diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to asthma Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ARDS such as ARDS caused by peritonitis pneumonia bacterial or viral or trauma idiopathic pulmonary diseases interstitial lung diseases Interstitial Pulmonary Fibrosis IPF pulmonary emboli Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD emphysema bronchitis cystic fibrosis lung cancer of any type lung injury hyperoxic lung injury Primary Pulmonary Hypertension PPH secondary pulmonary hypertension and sleep related disorders such as sleep apnea .

Exemplary neurological diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to disorders involving the brain degenerative diseases affecting the cerebral cortex including Alzheimer s disease degenerative diseases of basal ganglia and brain stem Parkinsonism and idiopathic Parkinson s disease paralysis agitans .

Exemplary venereal and reproductive diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to chancroid chlamydia granuloma inguinale gonorrhea syphilis candidiasis viral hepatitus herpes simplex HIV HPV mulloscum contagiosum crab louse scabies trichomoniasis. In particular the compositions and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent certain impotence and or inflammation associated with sexually transmitted diseases. Further the compositions and methods may be used to treat or prevent premature uterine contractions premature deliveries and menstrual cramps.

Exemplary cellular proliferative and or differentiative diseases that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include but are not limited to cancers sarcomas carcinomas adenocarcinomas metastatic disorders or hematopoietic neoplastic disorders and leukemias such as cancers of the stomach colon rectal liver pancreatic lung breast cervix uteri corpus uteri ovary prostate testis bladder renal brain central nervous system head and neck throat mouth pharynx esophagus larynx kidney and skin Hodgkins disease non Hodgkins leukemia skin melanoma small cell lung cancer choriocarcinoma melanoma and lymphoma.

In addition to the above listed exemplary diseases the compositions and methods described herein may also be used to treat or prevent pain such as the pain response resulting from various forms of tissue injury such as inflammation infection and ischemia usually referred to as hyperalgesia pain associated with musculoskeletal disorders such as joint pain tooth pain and headaches pain associated with surgery pain related to irritable bowel syndrome or chest pain. Also included in this category are seizure disorders such as epilepsy.

The compositions and methods are additionally suited to the promotion of wound healing. In wound healing the compositions may be administered in any of the above described methods of administration. In some embodiments the compositions in pharmaceutical form are injected and or topically administered. Topical administration may include ointments creams salves or solutions including the compositions. Exemplary wounds include but are not limited to open and closed wounds such as lacerations incisions abrasions puncture wounds penetration wounds burns scraps rashes blisters contusions hematomas and crush injuries.

Similarly the compositions and methods are additionally suited to surgical applications. In wound healing the compositions may be administered in any of the above described methods of administration. In some embodiments the compositions in pharmaceutical form are injected and or topically administered. Exemplary surgical applications include but are not limited to bariatric cardiac cardiothoracic colon and rectal neurosurgery obstetrics oncologic ophthalmology oral orthopedic otolaryngology pediatric cosmetic and reconstructive podiatry thoracic trauma and vascular surgery.

The compositions and methods described herein may also be used in transplantation applications. In such applications the compositions exhibit cytoprotective properties that may result in increased cell harvests yields more successful organ harvests increased viability in transplanted cells and organs and subsequent wound healing after the transplantation procedure has occurred.

In embodiments methods may be used to treat donors recipients organs and or transplantation donor sites during any step of the transplantation process which may includes organ harvesting storage and transplant.

The transplantation processes described herein include all categories of transplants known in the art such as for example autotransplantation removal and transfer of cells or tissue from one location on a patient to the same or another location on the same patient allotransplantation transplantation between members of the same species and xenotransplantation transplantations between members of different species .

In embodiments an organ to be donated may be treated with a pharmaceutical composition prior to during and or after it is harvested from the donor. When treated prior to harvesting the organ may be treated in situ by administering a pharmaceutical composition to the patient or directly to the organ. When treated after harvesting the organ may be treated ex vivo by exposing the organ to an atmosphere comprising a gaseous pharmaceutical composition to a liquid pharmaceutical composition a liquid perfusate storage solution or wash solution containing the pharmaceutical composition or to both. Alternatively or in addition the organ may be treated after transplantation into the recipient. A pharmaceutical composition may also be administered to the recipient prior to during and or after the surgery.

When exposing an organ to a gaseous pharmaceutical composition such as one comprising carbon monoxide the exposure may be performed in any chamber or area suitable for creating an atmosphere that includes appropriate levels of carbon monoxide gas. Exemplary chambers include incubators and chambers built for the purpose of accommodating an organ in a preservation solution. An appropriate chamber can be a chamber wherein only the gases fed into the chamber are present in the internal atmosphere such that the concentration of carbon monoxide may be established and maintained at a given concentration and purity e.g. where the chamber is airtight. For example a COincubator may be used to expose an organ to a carbon monoxide composition wherein carbon monoxide gas is supplied in a continuous flow from a vessel that contains the gas.

When exposing an organ to an aqueous pharmaceutical composition the exposure may be performed in any chamber or space having sufficient volume for submerging the organ completely or partially in an aqueous pharmaceutical composition. As yet another example the organ may be exposed by placing the organ in any suitable container and causing a liquid pharmaceutical composition to wash over the organ such that the organ is exposed to a continuous flow of the composition.

In embodiments where the pharmaceutical compositions comprises carbon monoxide the organ may be placed or submerged in a medium or solution that does not include carbon monoxide and placed in a chamber such that the medium or solution can be made into a carbon monoxide composition via exposure to a carbon monoxide containing atmosphere as described herein. In addition the organ may be submerged in a liquid that does not include carbon monoxide and carbon monoxide may be bubbled into the liquid.

When perfusing an organ with an aqueous pharmaceutical composition the organ may be perfused ex vivo or in situ. Methods for perfusing organs ex vivo and in situ are well known in the art. The aqueous pharmaceutical solution may be allowed to remain in the vasculature for a given length of time. Optionally in in situ or ex vivo perfusions the organ may be perfused with a wash solution e.g. UW solution without a pharmaceutical composition prior to perfusion with the aqueous pharmaceutical composition to remove the donor s blood from the organ. Such a process may be advantageous for example when using pharmaceutical compositions comprising carbon monoxide to avoid competition for carbon monoxide by the donor s hemoglobin. As another option the wash solution itself may be a pharmaceutical composition such as a pharmaceutical composition comprising carbon monoxide

The skilled practitioner will recognize that methods for transplanting and or harvesting organs for transplantation can vary depending upon many circumstances such as the age of the donor recipient or the nature of the organ being transplanted. Any or all of the above methods for exposing an organ to a pharmaceutical composition e.g. gassing washing submerging or perfusing can be used in a given procedure.

The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the disclosure in any way.

In addition cyanobacterial biofilms were propagated in produced water and municipal waste water utilizing a Rotating Algal Biofilm Reactor RABR biomass was directly harvested from the RABR and processed to extract phycocyanin that in turn was used to produce MBV. Undiluted Wyoming Produced Water amended with 3.0 g L NaNO 0.5 g L KHPO 18 22 C. light 220 mmol m s was inoculated with cyanobacteria Logan Lagoon Cyanobacteria isolate 2 LLC2 to propagate RABR biofilms. RABR units were used directly in Logan City municipal waste treatment lagoons to propagate cyanobacterial biofilms. Biofilms were harvested lyophilized and pulverized to a powder. The powdered biomass was extracted with either water or with 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0 for 2 hours and phycocyanin recovered. Phycocanobilin was extracted from phycocyanin as described in Example 2 and chemically converted to MBV as described in Example 3.

The extraction was carried out by adding 160 g Spirulina powder to 2 L 2000 mL of purified water 0.08 g mL and shaking in a rotary shaker overnight 16 hours at 200 rpm and 37 C. The sample was centrifuged for 90 minutes at 9500 rpm at 4 C. NH SO MW. 132.14 530 g was added to the supernatant fraction to give a 50 saturated NH SOsolution. The solution was incubated in ice water 0 C. for 30 minutes. After centrifugation at 9500 rpm for 30 minutes the precipitated dark blue Phycocyanin was washed by suspension in 700 mL methanol followed by centrifugation and discarding the supernatant fluid. The washing procedure was repeated 4 times each with 300 mL methanol and purified Phycocyanin was recovered as pelleted material.

Phycocyanobilin was cleaved by boiling the Phycocyanin in 600 mL methanol under reflux with stirring for 16 hours.

After centrifugation at 6000 rpm 5 minutes the volume of supernatant was reduced to around 40 mL by a rotary evaporator. Concentrated phycocyanobilin solution and 25 mL chloroform was added to 200 mL purified water acidified with 300 L 0.5N HCl. The mixture was vortexed and allowed to partition and extract Phycocyanobilin into the chloroform phase. The chloroform extraction procedure was repeated three times with 10 mL chloroform. The chloroform fractions were pooled and the combined chloroform solution volume was reduced to around 10 mL by evaporation with nitrogen gas. The chloroform solution was added to 60 mL hexane. Phycocyanobilin was collected by centrifugation for 3 minutes at 5000 rpm. After air drying purified Phycocyanobilin was obtained. Typically 100 to 150 mg of Phycocyanobilin was recovered from 160 g of Spirulina.

In 3 mL of reagent grade ethanol 5 mg of purified Phycocyanobilin was mixed with 20 mg of NaHCOand 20 mg of KCOand incubated for 1 day at room temperature for conversion to MBV IX . Approximately 5 mg of MBV shown below was produced from 5 mg starting material.

The Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. Biliverdin Reduction Kit catalog CS1100 and method was used to determine biliverdin reductase BVR activities with MBV BV IX or phycocyanobilin as substrates. The kit supplied enzyme was human liver BVR expressed in a recombinant strain. Before use MBV BV IX or phycocyanobilin each at 100 g mLin methanol were diluted 10 fold in the kit supplied assay buffer mixed with enzyme and NADPH and conversion to mesobilirubin IX bilirubin IX or phycocyanobilirubin was measured spectrophotometrically between 300 and 800 nm for up to 360 minutes.

MBV served as substrate and was catalytically converted to mesobilirubin IX by recombinant human liver BVR with kinetics that resembled those for BV IX conversion to bilirubin IX .

These results indicate that MBV like BV IX interacts with human BVR to initiate cell signaling events that lead to promotion of anti inflammatory processes and suppression of pro inflammatory processes. In contrast the bile pigment phycocyanobilin is a poor and relatively inactive catalytic substrate for this enzyme.

MBV and BV IX obtained from Frontier Scientific Inc. Logan Utah both at 1 10 or 100 M were administered to IVC dissected animals through the pancreatic duct at 37 C. Control animals received no treatment. Pancreata were removed from donor rats Lewis BW 300 g incubated with University of Wisconsin solution and preserved using the two layer method. See Ito et al. 38 Transplantation 86 2 321 329 2008 . After 20 to 22 hours islet cells were isolated using the 2 step digestion method after distention with collagenase and then purified by discontinuous Ficoll gradient centrifugation in a COBE 2991 cell processor. See Matsumoto et al. Proc. Bayl. Univ. Med. Cent. 20 4 357 362 2007 . Islet cells were counted microscopically and the numbers converted to IEQ number of islets equivalent to 150 um in diameter.

MBV treated pancreata yielded significantly more islets than did untreated control pancreata IEQ g 1599 475 1 M and 1318 804 10 M vs. 856 229 control P

Pancreata removed from donor rats Lewis BW 300 g were infused with University of Wisconsin solution containing MBV or BV IX at 1 10 or 100 M through the pancreatic duct and preserved using the 2 layer method in Hank s balanced salt solution containing 5 autologous serum as described in Example 5. After 20 to 22 hours islets were isolated and 3000 IEQ kg were autotransplanted by infusion into the portal vein of the corresponding rat.

Islet cell yields IEQ values assessed by laser scanning cytometry were higher and transplantation with MBV treated donor pancreata were similar or more efficacious versus using islets derived from untreated control pancreata. Tumor necrosis factor expression assessed by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction were significantly lower in the MBV treated group than controls. Recipient rats transplanted with MBV treated islets were more euglycemic than rats receiving untreated islets. Plasma C peptide levels after glucagon challenge were higher in animals receiving MBV treated islets than those receiving islets from untreated control pancreata.

Thus infusion of pancreata with MBV through the duct before preservation suppresses cytokine release prevented islet cell apoptosis and improved islet yield significantly with no adverse effect on islet function.

HRT 18 cells are seeded in 6 well plates in a concentration of 25 10cells per well. After 24 hours incubation cells are treated with MBV IX 1 10 and 100 M or phosphate buffered saline PBS as a control. Cells are washed detached with trypsin and resolved in 1 mL of growth media. 100 L of cell lysate are then analyzed for cell number viability and cell size. In a xenograft colonic tumor model see Ollinger et al. Cell Cycle 6 3078 3085 2007 2.5 10HRT 18 colon cancer cells are injected subcutaneously into the lower flank of BALB c nude mice. At 14 days MBV treatment is begun by injection of 1 10 and 100 mg kg body weight or PBS controls twice daily intraperitoneally and tumor diameters are measured daily using a caliper.

MBV reduces HRT 18 colonic cell proliferation in vitro and xenograft tumor formation in vivo at higher rates than untreated controls. Effects by MBV levels that resemble serum bile pigment levels support the hypothesis that BV bilirubin are potent suppressors of tumor growth and could explain the observed inverse correlation of cancer incidence and serum levels of this compounds. See Ollinger et al. Cell Cycle 6 3078 3085 2007 .

MBV 2 20 and 100 mg kgdaily is orally administered to 5 week old db db and obese mice for 4 weeks. Control mice are given the same feed without added MBV. After 4 weeks glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance tests are performed. See Ikeda et al. Diabetologia 54 2183 2191 2011 . Insulin content is evaluated by immunostaining and ELISA. Oxidative stress markers 8 hydroxy 2 deoxyguansosine and dihydroethidium staining and expression of NADPH oxidase components Pdxl and Bax are evaluated in isolated islets.

MBV feeding at least partially prevents development of hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance in db db and obese mice. Insulin levels and Pdxl expression increases decreases of apoptosis and Bax expression in islets from db db mice are observed and levels of oxidative stress markers and NADPH oxidase activities are lower and normal compared to those of controls

Thus feeding subjects MBV protects against the development of type 2 diabetes via mechanisms associated with suppression of oxidative damage of pancreatic islet cells. See Ikeda et al. Diabetologia 54 2183 2191 2011 .

Rat thoracic aortic vascular smooth muscle A7r5 cells cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum and 2 mM glutamine are exposed to various concentrations of angiotensin II and MBV for various lengths of time before harvesting. The cells are scraped into balanced salt solution washed twice by centrifugation and finally suspended at a density of 2 10cells per mL in the same solution containing 10 mM glucose and 1 mg per mL bovine serum albumin. Superoxide anion levels of suspensions with 9 10cells are measured with a luminometer and a commercial luminogen based detection kit LumiMax Agilent Technologies. Inc. .

Angiotensin II and MBV treated cells suspended in phosphate buffered saline with protease inhibitors are disrupted at ice temperature using a Dounce homogenizer. The cell extracts are fractionated into microsomal membrane and cytosol fractions by standard differential centrifugation procedures. Microsomes containing plasma and mitochondrial membranes are recovered as pellets after centrifugation at 29 100 g for 20 min at 4 C. NADH NADPH oxidase activities of the microsomal fractions are measured with a luminometer and a commercial luminogen based kit LumiMax Agilent Technologies. Inc. .

In aortic vascular smooth muscle cells angiotensin II causes inflammatory effects that elicit hypertension and atherosclerotic diseases. The effects of angiotensin II are largely attributed to activation of microsomal NADH NADPH oxidase with production of superoxide anion. MBV suppresses these inflammatory processes via its anti oxidant properties and anti inflammatory mechanisms that could include inhibition of NADH NADPH oxidase. See Cheng et al. Angiotensin II and vascular inflammation 11 6 Med Sci Monit 194 205 2005 and Ollinger et al. Bilirubin and biliverdin treatment of atherosclerotic diseases 6 1 Cell Cycle 39 43 2007 .

It will be appreciated that various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art and are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

