---

title: Method and system for device discovery and content management on a network
abstract: Apparatus and methods for downloading selected multimedia content and applications. In one embodiment, the apparatus and methods enable various options or functionalities for programming content over a home network. A web-based user interface on a consumer device controls a set-top box (STB) over a local home network is utilized. An initial process connects the consumer device to an application server for the necessary web software. After discovery of both the consumer device and the STB on the local home network, an initial page of the application is loaded and the application calls the web services on the STB via the home network to retrieve data and control the STB with a compatible web browser on the consumer device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264751&OS=09264751&RS=09264751
owner: Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC
number: 09264751
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The disclosure relates generally to the fields of content and or data delivery over a network. In one exemplary aspect the disclosure is related to apparatus and methods for downloading selected multimedia content and applications that enable various options or functionalities for programming content over a home network.

Recent advances in digital information processing and technology have made a broad range of services and functions available for delivery to consumers at their premises for very reasonable prices or subscription fees. Various methods of delivering media content such as video to end users or consumers are known. For example when the consumer requests television services such as from a cable satellite or terrestrial network service provider the service provider generally installs a host or terminal device such as a set top box STB or a gateway device configured to provide content to other devices in communication with the gateway such as a wireless mobile device that has access to the media content at the consumer s premises under a lease arrangement. Additionally content may be provided to other consumer devices via communication of the service provider to entities in other networks. The service provider e.g. multiple systems operator or MSO delivers the content over the various channels subscribed by a particular user as determined by a network or other content source via the MSO distribution network and STB or via other network configurations and entities as discussed above. Hence the foregoing services may be provided and delivered to the user via a wide variety of different equipment environments including inter cilia cable modems Wi Fi hubs WiMAX nodes Ethernet hubs gateways switches and routers computers mobile user device servers cable or satellite networks and associated set top boxes and PSTNs.

These services and functions include digital content or programming movies etc. delivered over digital video on demand VOD personal video recorder PVR and networked PVR nPVR Internet Protocol television IPTV digital media playback and recording as well high speed Internet access and IP based telephony e.g. VoIP . Other services available to network users include access to and recording of digital music e.g. MP3 files as well local area networking including wire line and wireless local area networks for distributing these services throughout the user s premises and beyond. Network delivered or network based gaming and applications apps have also each recently come to the forefront as popular content areas for subscribers.

The aforementioned STB or other MSO provided devices accomplish video decoding conditional access CA decryption and display of a user interface. These STBs and devices however are often limited in processing power and memory which makes it difficult for network operators to provide more full featured services such as contemporary user interfaces interactive program guides IPGs and interactive TV applications. Currently STB user interfaces are typically provided by way of largely monolithic applications downloaded to each STB. Furthermore two way or interactive communications are limited to low bandwidth commands and requests for on demand sessions and video trick mode control necessitating user content to be carouselled to each STB on a one way broadcast network.

Network operators have been working on software solutions to overcome the aforementioned limitations on STBs and other Consumer Owned Devices CODs . Enhanced Binary Interchange Format EBIF tru2way based on the OpenCable Application Platform CableCard and other proprietary solutions have been deployed to create richer user interfaces better on screen guides and interactive applications. Additionally updated functionality in consumer electronic device technology has given MSOs the ability to explore delivering multimedia content in new ways. Smart TVs STBs PCs and mobile devices including smartphones and tablets phablets now routinely include browser capability and can request on demand content connect to social networking services and engage in various interactive entertainment deployments.

However many challenges remain in providing a seamless and user friendly experience on any device at any time. Despite efforts to standardize digital video services digital video is still typically provided via complex software downloaded on operator leased devices making it difficult to keep each such device up to date and capable of managing viewing recording storing and sharing media content with a variety of peripheral devices and their ever evolving operating systems. Furthermore implementing interactive features without sacrificing network bandwidth and complying with content protection requirements has only made the task of providing video to a wide range of consumer devices more difficult.

The increased presence of home networking technologies in the average household affords network operators an emerging opportunity i.e. to take advantage of the Internet and cloud based applications in the context of digital video services. In particular ubiquitous access to high speed networks robust browser implementation on all classes of electronic devices including handhelds tablets and TVs and widespread use of network tools e.g. HTML5 CSS and Javascript would allow operators to make their distribution system compatible with non leased devices and enable new implementations of the traditional operator applications by merging data and logic into the network for a far more interactive user experience. However extant implementations of managed networks are currently not well suited to support service discovery and use by way of non leased consumer electronic devices which are now ubiquitous with users so as to provide enhanced integration and seamlessness of service.

Therefore what is needed is a methodology and apparatus for enabling non leased devices to discover services on a network so that features currently available only through leased operator devices can be replaced or supplemented with other delivery e.g. web based technologies adapted for non leased devices.

The foregoing needs are addressed herein by disclosing inter cilia apparatus and methods for device discovery and content management on a network.

In a first aspect a method for providing content between a first device and a second device on a network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method includes receiving an application at the first device from a first server receiving a web based user interface at the first device from a second server discovering the second device on the network requesting via the web based user interface on the first device a programming action and receiving at the first device content from the second device according to the requested programming action.

In one variant the first device includes a browser application. In another variant the first device includes a Smart TV and the second device includes a leased device provided by a network operator and the browser conforms to a CEA 2014 A standard.

In another variant the first device includes a non leased consumer device and the second device includes a leased device.

In yet another variant the act of receiving an application includes accessing the first server with a browser on the first device and downloading the application.

In a further variant the act of receiving an application further includes executing the application the application configured to redirect the browser to the second server.

In still another variant the act of discovering includes obtaining from the application a first IP address associated with the first device the performing a search based at least in part on the first IP address and obtaining from the search a second IP address associated with the second device.

In yet a further variant the performing a search includes performing a brute force search of a subnet associated with the first IP address.

In another variant the act of obtaining the first IP address includes use of a proprietary Javascript API associated with the first device.

In yet another variant the act of performing a search function includes sending an HTTP request for known web services on a same subnet as the first IP address.

In a second aspect a method for providing content to a first device associated with a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method includes performing a discovery function receiving at the first device a server universal resource location URL from a second device also associated with the network loading a user interface into a browser on the first device using the server URL selecting an option on the user interface transmitting the selected option to the second device and receiving content at the first device from the second device in accordance with the selected option.

In one variant the act of performing a discovery function includes sending from the second device an advertisement of services on a standard port and address in the premises network and sending from the first device a multicast search message on the standard port and address in the premises network.

In another variant the act of receiving the server URL is accomplished using a Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA stack by an application running on the second device.

In a third aspect a system adapted to manage media content within a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the system includes a first device configured to store the media content a second device configured with a browser and a processor the processor configured to run at least one computer program on the first device the at least one computer program configured to when executed direct the browser to an application hosted on a server receive a user interface from the application hosted on the server obtain network information associated with the second device from the application hosted on the server perform a search function based at least in part on the network information for devices on the same network as the second device receive a reply to the search function the reply comprising network information associated with the first device and send messages using the network information associated with the first device and the user interface to control the media content stored on the first device.

In a fourth aspect a non transitory computer readable medium configured for use on a consumer device is disclosed. The computer readable medium has a plurality of instructions which are configured to when executed download a web application the web application comprising at least a URL description direct a web browser to a network server via the URL description receive a user interface from the network server and search known web services on the local area network LAN until a response message is received from a CPE on the LAN access content on the CPE via the user interface.

In a fifth aspect consumer premises equipment CPE adapted for connection to a content distribution network and for receipt of content via the network is disclosed. In one embodiment the CPE includes a processor a storage device in data communication with the processor a computer readable medium configured to store a computer application thereon. In one variant the computer application comprising a plurality of instructions which are configured to when executed discover at least one device on the LAN receive control instructions from at least one device via web services on the CPE receive content from the network and transmit the content to the at least one device using at least a Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA protocol and a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP .

These and other aspects shall become apparent when considered in light of the disclosure provided herein.

As used herein the term application refers generally to a unit of executable software that implements a certain functionality or theme. The themes of applications vary broadly across any number of disciplines and functions such as on demand content management e commerce transactions brokerage transactions home entertainment calculator etc. and one application may have more than one theme. The unit of executable software generally runs in a predetermined environment for example the unit could comprise a downloadable Java Xlet that runs within the JavaTV environment.

As used herein the terms client device and end user device include but are not limited to set top boxes e.g. DSTBs gateways modems personal computers PCs and minicomputers whether desktop laptop or otherwise and mobile devices such as handheld computers PDAs personal media devices PMDs tablets phablets and smartphones.

As used herein the term codec refers to a video audio or other data coding and or decoding algorithm process or apparatus including without limitation those of the MPEG e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.264 etc. Real RealVideo etc. AC 3 audio DiVX XViD ViDX Windows Media Video e.g. WMV 7 8 9 10 or 11 ATI Video codec or VC 1 SMPTE standard 421M families.

As used herein the term computer program or software is meant to include any sequence or human or machine cognizable steps which perform a function. Such program may be rendered in virtually any programming language or environment including for example C C Fortran COBOL PASCAL assembly language markup languages e.g. HTML SGML XML VoXML and the like as well as object oriented environments such as the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Java including J2ME Java Beans etc. Binary Runtime Environment e.g. BREW and the like.

The terms Consumer Premises Equipment CPE and host device refer without limitation to any type of electronic equipment located within a consumer s or user s premises and connected to a network. The term host device includes terminal devices that have access to digital television content via a satellite cable or terrestrial network. The host device functionality may be integrated into a digital television DTV set. The term consumer premises equipment CPE includes such electronic equipment such as set top boxes televisions Digital Video Recorders DVR gateway storage devices Furnace and ITV Personal Computers.

As used herein the term display means any type of device adapted to display information including without limitation CRTs LCDs TFTs plasma displays LEDs incandescent and fluorescent devices or combinations integrations thereof. Display devices may also include less dynamic devices such as for example printers e ink devices and the like.

As used herein the term DVR digital video recorder refers generally to any type of recording mechanism and or software environment located in the headend the user premises or anywhere else whereby content sent over a network can be recorded and selectively recalled. Such DVR may be dedicated in nature or part of a non dedicated or multi function system.

As used herein the term DOCSIS refers to any of the existing or planned variants of the Data Over Cable Services Interface Specification including for example DOCSIS versions 1.0 1.1 2.0 and 3.0. DOCSIS version 1.0 is a standard and protocol for internet access using a digital cable network. DOCSIS 1.1 is interoperable with DOCSIS 1.0 and has data rate and latency guarantees VoIP as well as improved security compared to DOCSIS 1.0. DOCSIS 2.0 is interoperable with 1.0 and 1.1 yet provides a wider upstream band 6.4 MHz as well as new modulation formats including TDMA and CDMA. It also provides symmetric services 30 Mbps upstream .

As used herein the term headend refers generally to a networked system controlled by an operator e.g. an MSO or multiple systems operator that distributes programming to MSO clientele using client devices. Such programming may include literally any information source receiver including inter alia free to air TV channels pay TV channels interactive TV and the Internet.

As used herein the terms Internet and internet are used interchangeably to refer to inter networks including without limitation the Internet.

As used herein the term memory includes any type of integrated circuit or other storage device adapted for storing digital data including without limitation ROM. PROM EEPROM DRAM SDRAM DDR 2 SDRAM EDO FPMS RLDRAM SRAM flash memory e.g. NAND NOR and PSRAM.

As used herein the terms microprocessor and digital processor are meant generally to include all types of digital processing devices including without limitation digital signal processors DSPs reduced instruction set computers RISC general purpose CISC processors microprocessors gate arrays e.g. FPGAs PLDs reconfigurable computer fabrics RCFs array processors secure microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Such digital processors may be contained on a single unitary IC die or distributed across multiple components.

As used herein the terms MSO or multiple systems operator refer to a cable fiber to the home FTTH fiber to the curb FTTC satellite or terrestrial network provider having infrastructure required to deliver services including programming and data over those mediums.

As used herein the terms network and bearer network refer generally to any type of telecommunications or data network including without limitation hybrid fiber coax HFC networks satellite networks telco networks and data networks including MANs WANs LANs WLANs internets and intranets . Such networks or portions thereof may utilize any one or more different topologies e.g. ring bus star loop etc. transmission media e.g. wired RE cable RE wireless millimeter wave optical etc. and or communications or networking protocols.

As used herein the term network interface refers to any signal data or software interface with a component network or process including without limitation those of the FireWire e.g. FW400 FW800 etc. USB e.g. USB2 Ethernet e.g. 10 100 10 100 1000 Gigabit Ethernet 10 Gig E etc. MoCA Coaxsys e.g. TVnet radio frequency tuner e.g. in band or OOB cable modem etc. Wi Fi 802.11 WiMAX 802.16 PAN e.g. 802.15 or IrDA families.

As used herein the term QAM refers to modulation schemes used for sending signals over cable networks. Such modulation scheme might use any constellation level e.g. QPSK 16 QAM 64 QAM 256 QAM etc. depending on details of a cable network. A QAM may also refer to a physical channel modulated according to the schemes.

As used herein the term server refers to any computerized component system or entity regardless of form which is adapted to provide data files applications content or other services to one or more other devices or entities on a computer network.

As used herein the term service content program and stream are sometimes used synonymously to refer to a sequence of packetized data that is provided in what a subscriber may perceive as a service. A service or content or stream in the former specialized sense may correspond to different types of services in the latter non technical sense. For example a service in the specialized sense may correspond to among others video broadcast audio only broadcast pay per view or video on demand. The perceivable content provided on such a service may be live pre recorded delimited in time undelimited in time or of other descriptions. In some cases a service in the specialized sense may correspond to what a subscriber would perceive as a channel in traditional broadcast television.

As used herein the term service group refers to either a group of service users e.g. subscribers or the resources shared by them in the form of for example entire cable RF signal only the RF channels used to receive the service or otherwise treated as a single logical unit by the network for resource assignment.

As used herein the term storage device refers to without limitation computer hard drives DVR device memory RAID devices or arrays optical media e.g. CD ROMs Laserdiscs Blu Ray etc. or any other devices or media capable of storing content or other information.

As used herein the term user interface refers to without limitation any visual graphical tactile audible sensory or other means of providing information to and or receiving information from a user or other entity.

As used herein the term wireless means any wireless signal data communication or other interface including without limitation Wi Fi Bluetooth 3G 3GPP 3GPP2 HSDPA HSUPA TDMA CDMA e.g. IS 95A WCDMA etc. FHSS DSSS GSM PAN 802.15 WiMAX 802.16 802.20 narrowband FDMA OFDM PCS DCS LTE LTE A analog cellular CDPD satellite systems millimeter wave or microwave systems acoustic and infrared i.e. IrDA .

In one salient aspect methods and apparatus for downloading selected multimedia content and applications that enable various options or functionalities for programming content over a home network are disclosed. In one embodiment a web browser is provided on a consumer device e.g. smartphones tablet smartTV etc. and a STB is provided with an application using web technologies e.g. HTML CSS Javascript etc. which upon discovery of one another on the local network enables a web based user interface to be implemented on non leased devices by merging STB software functionality into the network.

In the exemplary implementation the STB is controlled with a Java application and an embedded webserver which exposes web services on the local home network. These services are used to control the functions of the STB and include methods to get the list of current recordings on the STB with metadata schedule a recording or retrieve a list of linear services that might be available. The exemplary consumer device runs a compatible web browser and an application that is served from a web server from a cable network. Once the initial page of the application is loaded the application calls the web services on the STB via the home network to retrieve data and control the STB.

Exemplary embodiments of the apparatus and methods of the present disclosure are now described in detail. While these exemplary embodiments are described in the context of a hybrid fiber coax HFC cable system architecture having a multiple systems operator MSO digital networking capability IP delivery capability and plurality of client devices CPE the general principles and advantages of the disclosure may be extended to other types of networks and architectures whether broadband narrowband wired or wireless managed or unmanaged or otherwise the following therefore being merely exemplary in nature. For example the disclosure may be practiced over a fiber to the home FTTH or fiber to the curb FTTC system HFCu networks or over satellite or millimeter wave based networks.

It will also be appreciated that while described generally in the context of a consumer i.e. residential end user domain the various aspects of the present disclosure may be readily adapted to other types of environments e.g. commercial enterprise government military etc. as well. Myriad other applications are possible.

Other features and advantages will immediately be recognized by persons of ordinary skill in the art with reference to the attached drawings and detailed description of exemplary embodiments as given below.

The data application origination point comprises any medium that allows data and or applications such as a VOD based or Watch TV application to be transferred to a distribution server . This can include for example a third party data source application vendor website CD ROM external network interface mass storage device e.g. RAID system etc. Such transference may be automatic initiated upon the occurrence of one or more specified events such as the receipt of a request packet or ACK performed manually or accomplished in any number of other modes readily recognized by those of ordinary skill.

The application distribution server comprises a computer system where such applications can enter the network system. Distribution servers are well known in the networking arts and accordingly not described further herein.

The VOD server comprises a computer system where on demand content can be received from one or more of the aforementioned data sources and enter the network system. These servers may generate the content locally or alternatively act as a gateway or intermediary from a distant source.

The CPE includes any equipment in the customers premises or other locations whether local or remote to the distribution server that can be accessed by a distribution server .

Referring now to one exemplary embodiment of a headend architecture useful with the present disclosure is described. As shown in the headend architecture comprises typical headend components and services including billing module subscriber management system SMS and CPE configuration management module cable modem termination system CMTS and OOB system as well as LAN s placing the various components in data communication with one another. It will be appreciated that while a bar or bus LAN topology is illustrated any number of other arrangements as previously referenced e.g. ring star etc. may be used consistent with the disclosure. It will also be appreciated that the headend configuration depicted in is high level conceptual architecture and that each MSO may have multiple headends deployed using custom architectures.

The exemplary architecture of further includes a multiplexer encrypter modulator MEM coupled to the HFC network adapted to process or condition content for transmission over the network. The distribution servers are coupled to the LAN which provides access to the MEM and network via one or more file servers . The VOD servers are coupled to the LAN as well although other architectures may be employed such as for example where the VOD servers are associated with a core switching device such as an 802.3z Gigabit Ethernet device . As previously described information is carried across multiple channels. Thus the headend must be adapted to acquire the information for the carried channels from various sources. Typically the channels being delivered from the headend to the CPE downstream are multiplexed together in the headend as previously described and sent to neighborhood hubs via a variety of interposed network components.

It will also be recognized however that the multiplexing operation s need not necessarily occur at the headend e.g. in the aforementioned MEM . For example in one variant at least a portion of the multiplexing is conducted at a BSA switching node or hub see discussion of provided subsequently herein . As yet another alternative a multi location or multi stage approach can be used such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 602 820 issued Oct. 13 2009 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR MULTI STAGE MULTIPLEXING IN A NETWORK incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which discloses inter alia improved multiplexing apparatus and methods that allow such systems to dynamically compensate for content e.g. advertisements promotions or other programs that is inserted at a downstream network node such as a local hub as well as feed back and feed forward mechanisms for transferring information between multiplexing stages.

Content e.g. audio video data files etc. is provided in each downstream in band channel associated with the relevant service group. To communicate with the headend or intermediary node e.g. hub server the CPE may use the out of band OOB or DOCSIS channels and associated protocols. The OCAP 1.0 2.0 3.0 and subsequent specification provides for exemplary networking protocols both downstream and upstream although the disclosure is in no way limited to these approaches.

Switching architectures allow improved efficiency of bandwidth use for ordinary digital broadcast programs. Ideally the subscriber is unaware of any difference between programs delivered using a switched network and ordinary streaming broadcast delivery.

Co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 956 688 filed Sep. 20 2001 and entitled TECHNIQUE FOR EFFECTIVELY PROVIDING PROGRAM MATERIAL IN A CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describes one exemplary broadcast switched digital architecture useful with the present disclosure although it will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that other approaches and architectures may be substituted.

In addition to broadcast content e.g. video programming the systems of and and described below also deliver Internet data services using the Internet protocol IP although other protocols and transport mechanisms of the type well known in the digital communication art may be substituted. One exemplary delivery paradigm comprises delivering MPEG based video content with the video transported to user PCs or IP based STBs over the aforementioned DOCSIS channels comprising MPEG or other video codec such as H.264 or AVC over IP over MPEG. That is the higher layer MPEG or other encoded content is encapsulated using an IP protocol which then utilizes an MPEG packetization of the type well known in the art for delivery over the RF channels. In this fashion a parallel delivery mode to the normal broadcast delivery exists i.e. delivery of video content both over traditional downstream QAMs to the tuner of the user s STB or other receiver device for viewing on the television and also as packetized IP data over the DOCSIS QAMs to the user s PC or other IP enabled device via the user s cable modem.

Referring again to the IP packets associated with Internet services are received by edge switch and forwarded to the cable modem termination system CMTS . The CMTS examines the packets and forwards packets intended for the local network to the edge switch . Other packets are discarded or routed to another component.

The edge switch forwards the packets receive from the CMTS to the QAM modulator which transmits the packets on one or more physical QAM modulated RF channels to the CPE. The IP packets are typically transmitted on RF channels that are different that the RF channels used for the broadcast video and audio programming although this is not a requirement. The CPE are each configured to monitor the particular assigned RF channel such as via a port or socket ID address or other such mechanism for IP packets intended for the subscriber premises address that they serve.

While the foregoing network architectures described herein can and in fact do carry packetized content e.g. IP over MPEG for high speed data or Internet TV MPEG2 packet content over QAM for MPTS etc. they are often not optimized for such delivery. Hence in accordance with another embodiment a packet optimized delivery network is used for carriage of the packet content e.g. IPTV content . illustrates one exemplary implementation of such a network in the context of a 3GPP IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem network with common control plane and service delivery platform SDP as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 764 746 filed on Apr. 21 2010 and entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PACKETIZED CONTENT DELIVERY OVER A CONTENT DELIVERY NETWORK incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such a network provides significant enhancements in terms of inter alia common control of different services implementation and management of content delivery sessions according to unicast or multicast models etc. however it is appreciated that the various features of the present disclosure are in no way limited to any of the foregoing architectures.

Referring now to one exemplary embodiment of a content delivery architecture for discovering network devices and managing media content according to the present disclosure is illustrated.

The CPE shown in is a digital terminal that is used to provide a variety of information and media content to a customer. The CPE may take on any number of forms including those with various types of wired and wireless interfaces indigenous recording capabilities e.g. DVR or MR DVR capability trick mode functionality etc. The CPE may further comprise one or more digital processor s associated RAM and a plurality of front back end interfaces e.g. video audio interfaces IEEE 1394 FireWire Thunderbolt USB DisplayPort serial parallel ports etc. for interface with other end user apparatus such as gateways televisions personal electronics computers Wi Fi WiMAX or other network hubs routers etc.

In the illustrated embodiment the CPE of the reference architecture comprises media server functionality . The media server functionality may be rendered for example by a DLNA Digital Living Network Alliance compliant digital media server DMS function as discussed in version 1.5 published March 2006 expanded October 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety however other approaches may be used with equal success.

The exemplary CPE of may also be provided with an OCAP 1.0 or higher compliant application and Java based middleware built to run on a Java Virtual Machine JVM which manages the operation of the device and applications running thereon. It will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that myriad different devices and software architectures may be used consistent with the functions of the present disclosure the device of being merely exemplary. For example different middlewares e.g. MHP ARM or ACAP may be used in place of the OCAP middleware of the illustrated embodiment.

In one exemplary embodiment the CPE is controlled by a Java application using the OCAP platform such as OCAP Digital Navigator ODN . In this embodiment a lightweight webserver is embedded inside of the Java application e.g. ODN and is used to expose a set of web services on the local home network. In one instance the web services are used to control the functions of the CPE and include methods to obtain a list of current recordings on the CPE with metadata schedule a recording and or retrieve a list of linear services available. The exemplary CPE may further comprise DOCSIS 3.0 compatibility client applications or processes which service EPG graphical user interfaces or other associated functions necessary to support the various services described herein.

The illustrated CPE is also advantageously configured to interface with many different IP client device profiles such as the well known Apple iTouch and iPhone and iPad products as well as others e.g. Android PSP Zune PS3 or XBOX 360 and PC s Smart TVs and laptops. It will be appreciated that other components and devices may be utilized with the CPE the foregoing being merely illustrative.

The IP device of comprises a client device with a processor and client application adapted to run thereon which in one embodiment is configured to receive process and display content received from the CPE network server or other entity. This software application may be configured to provide the user with the ability to interact with IP content received thereon as well as perform additional functions associated with content delivery. For example the client application may support and enable web browsing video calling device discovery and application downloads. The client application may also enable various user based functions within the IP device including display and user interactivity with the user interface UI . Various other user interface functionality as will be discussed below may also be provided via the client application. It will also be recognized that the device configuration shown is essentially for illustrative purposes and various other configurations of the IP device are consistent with other embodiments of the disclosure.

In one exemplary embodiment the IP client device may comprise remote user interface RUI functionality. The RUI functionality may include a Web4CE CEA 2014 for Universal Plug and Play UPnP RUI as disclosed in CEA document number CEA 2014 A entitled 4 published July 2007 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety although others may be used with equal success. A user may control a web browser that conforms to CEA 2014 A and which may also be compatible with HTML 4.1 or above and able to request and receive certain data content to be displayed in a user interface display on the IP device . The IP device may provide one or more input interfaces that the user may use to manipulate the browsing and display of the device.

In one embodiment the IP device runs a web application that is served from the webserver in the MSO s e.g. cable network aka the cloud . The initial page of the application is loaded via DOCSIS and the application calls the web services on the CPE via the premises network to retrieve data and control the CPE . The web application may be written with a variety of web technology tools including but not limited to HTML CSS and Javascript.

The exemplary IP device may further comprise DOCSIS 3.0 compatibility client applications or processes which service EPG graphical user interfaces or other associated functions necessary to support the various services described herein. The IP device may be any device consistent with the functionalities described herein including for example smart TVs smartphones PC s laptops tablets phablets etc. It will be appreciated that other components and devices may be utilized the foregoing being merely illustrative.

In one embodiment a network controlled web based navigational user interface is delivered to a device such as the IP device of whether leased from the MSO or obtained retail . This network controlled web based interface advantageously allows for rapid user personalization and customization as well as service addition replacement and augmentation. It also permits the MSO a greater degree of control over the look and feel of the UI. Content made available to the user may be presented for example in the form of an electronic program guide EPG or other guide interface having both MSO based content and off net content e.g. internet content uploaded user originated content etc. listed therein. In one embodiment the interfaces are made open to developers and MSO partners in order to increase speed and ease of integration of new interfaces services applications and functionality.

In one exemplary configuration the user interface is served to the IP device from the network i.e. the UI is network based versus CPE based. This approach advantageously provides the ability for the network operator e.g. MSO to rapidly control and reconfigure the UI depending on the particular application situation or use context e.g. personal versus business day versus night etc. or user i.e. personalization . For instance in one variant a network server disposed at the headend is used to preserve individual subscriber account UI features and preferences. It can also maintain these features and preferences consistent across the population of devices associated with a given subscriber account or IP or other address or even individual users within a multi user account such as that of a family . This theme approach adds familiarity and ease of use for the individual user in that their UI always appears the same or substantially similar within the limits of heterogeneous device capability e.g. desktop versus mobile versus smart TV and they do not have to remember or relearn the idiosyncrasies of each different device. Features such as favorites friends buddies look and feel menu or screen configurations preferences etc. can all be readily replicated and distributed across each of the user s platforms using the network based UI approach of the illustrated embodiments herein.

The use of a server based UI model also allows the MSO the opportunity to rapidly reconfigure each UI for new services available content or applications available to that particular user or the subscriber pool as a whole . For example where a new application is launched by the MSO the supporting UI features menus icons etc. can be rapidly implemented and served to the various client devices without any service call or truck roll . Moreover the new application can be selectively applied to individual customers based on e.g. subscriber level status of their bill payments parental controls etc.

The user interface of the present disclosure may in one embodiment utilize web based development and design which facilitates interactive information sharing interoperability user centered design and collaboration on the World Wide Web such as is categorized as Web 2.0 . Web 2.0 is a term commonly associated with web development design that facilitates interactive information sharing interoperability user centered design and collaboration on the Web. Some examples of Web 2.0 include web based communities web applications social networking sites user video sharing sites wikis blogs and mashups. For instance a typical Web 2.0 site might allow its users to interact with others or to change website content versus non interactive or static websites . In one instance the IP device may receive various forms of IP based content to be presented to the user including on net content e.g. video Internet content SMS text chat e mail voice e.g. VoIP and access to applications and so called app stores. In this manner various traditionally PC and smartphone applications may be accessible to the IP device .

One of the challenges of using a web browser as the user interface to a service is the discovery of the initial page of the application. Unlike a traditional browser used for web browsing web browsers on many IP devices e.g. a Smart TV do not have an address bar for the user to type in the URL to the initial page of the application. Furthermore the input device for some IP devices is a standard remote control that makes typing of a long URL string using a software keyboard difficult and tedious. The user is also required to remember or otherwise record the string of characters which is not optimal.

Additionally in order to provide users with a wide range of possible IP devices which may or may not be leased for use with a CPE the MSO must provide a way for the IP device and the CPE to discover each other without the benefit of knowing beforehand information about the IP device or the home network that is ultimately deployed. To that end the IP device requires discovery not only of the application server to receive the user interface but also the address of the CPE in the home network that the IP device will control with the user interface. Two exemplary methods for discovering both a server and one or more network devices are discussed below.

Referring now to exemplary methods for discovery of a network device are described. Specifically is a block diagram illustrating two exemplary scenarios for discovery of home network devices and accessing a network server according to the disclosure is shown. In the exemplary embodiment both the IP device and the CPE support Simple Service Discovery Protocol SSDP for the RUI server discovery. As discussed above the CEA 2014 A standard is a web based protocol and framework for developing remote user interfaces which define a Remote User Interface RUI discovery protocol based on SSDP which is based on UPnP Device Architecture.

In scenario 1 the CPE joins the network first. When the IP device joins the network it sends out a multicast search message to discover the CPE on the network and initiate an exchange of messages that lead to the IP device requesting the initial page of an application hosted on a server. In scenario 2 the IP device joins the network first. When the CPE is later added to the network it sends out an advertisement of its services. In one embodiment the advertisement message contains a URL description of the server. The URL is provided to IP device which then enables to request the initial page of an application hosted on the server.

In the exemplary embodiments of and the search message from the IP device contains a search target field. If the services of the server that receives the search message matches the services provided by the server at step of the method of in this case the remote user interface server the server will respond to the source IP step and the port that sent the request. The server s response will contain a URL to the description of the server and its services. The IP device will read the description to obtain the URL to the initial page of the application step . In one instance the initial page of the application is hosted on a server in the MSO network although other configurations can be used with equal success.

Referring again to the advertisement message from the CPE in scenario 2 where the IP device joins the network first is very similar to the search response message in scenario 1 where the CPE joins the network first and contains the URL to the description of the server and its services. The URL is provided to the DLNA UPnP stack by the application running on the CPE . The IP address of the CPE is included in the URL as the query string. The IP device reads the URL and loads the page into the browser . The web application will then read the query string to retrieve the IP address of the CPE . At this point both the operator network server and the CPE have been discovered by the IP device and the IP device can then retrieve a web based user interface from the network server and select options for controlling the web services on the CPE using the protocols discussed above . The browser in the IP device defines an A V Object that is used to play the video from the web application. Each recorded video asset and linear service has a unique URI or URL that is generated by the DLNA stack on the CPE and is included in the data provided by the web services of the CPE .

Referring now to methods for discovery of an application server according to one embodiment of the disclosure are described. The IP device supports an app store functionality that allows a web application to be loaded from a server into the IP device and then launched into the browser. In one instance the initial page is defined using the device manufacturer s proprietary mechanism. The app store configuration has the initial page loaded via the app store at step and then redirects the browser to the initial page of the application hosted on a server in the network per step . This process completes the application server discovery but the application still needs the IP address of the CPE in the home network. Since the SSDP mechanism is not accessible at the application Javascript level the application must use an alternative method to find the CPE . In the exemplary embodiment the application uses a manufacturer s proprietary Javascript API to obtain the address of the IP device . The application then initiates a brute force search of all the IP addresses in the same subnet as the IP device step . In one instance the search is accomplished by sending a HTTP request to a known web service of the CPE on each IP address within the subnet until a response is received at step . The response message contains the IP address of the CPE which then enables video to be sent from the CPE to the IP device using HTTP and the DLNA protocols. The browser in the IP device defines an A V Object that is used to play the video from the web application. Each recorded video asset and linear service has a unique URL that is generated by the DLNA stack on the CPE and is included in the data provided by the web services of the CPE .

It will be recognized that while certain aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of a specific sequence of steps of a method these descriptions are only illustrative of the broader methods and may be modified as required by the particular application. Certain steps may be rendered unnecessary or optional under certain circumstances. Additionally certain steps or functionality may be added to the disclosed embodiments or the order of performance of two or more steps permuted. All such variations are considered to be encompassed within the disclosure and claims herein.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features of the disclosure as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the device or process illustrated may be made by those skilled in the art. The foregoing description is of the best mode presently contemplated of. This description is in no way meant to be limiting but rather should be taken as illustrative of the general principles of the disclosure. The scope of the disclosure should be determined with reference to the claims.

