---

title: Device authentication using device-specific proxy addresses
abstract: Methods and systems for providing device authentication using device-specific proxy addresses are described. One example method includes associating a particular proxy network address with a device; receiving, over a network, a request to access a network resource, the request being received at the particular proxy network address; authenticating the device based on the particular proxy network address; and after authenticating the device, authenticating a user of the device based on user-specific credentials associated with the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893255&OS=08893255&RS=08893255
owner: iboss, Inc.
number: 08893255
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131023
---
This specification generally relates to providing device authentication using device specific proxy addresses.

In corporate and other networks users may be required to authenticate to a proxy server prior to accessing the Internet. One widely used authentication scheme is HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Basic Authentication Basic Auth . In Basic Auth a client sends its username and password in unencrypted plaintext to a server such as for example a proxy server. The server authenticates the client and subsequently allows the client access to other resources such as the Internet. In such a configuration an attacker can monitor network packets to obtain the username and password of the client and possibly compromise the security of the network.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may be embodied in systems and methods performed by data processing apparatuses that include the actions of associating a particular proxy network address with a device receiving over a network a request to access a network resource the request being received at the particular proxy network address authenticating the device based on the particular proxy network address and after authenticating the device authenticating a user of the device based on user specific credentials associated with the user.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and potential advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

A proxy server often is used by a network owner or administrator to control access to an external network such as the Internet by users of an internal network such as a Local Area Network LAN . A proxy server may also save Internet bandwidth and provide security by filtering users access to objectionable or dangerous Internet sites. In some implementations a proxy server may perform user identity based authentication without regard to the particular device that the user is using to communicate with the proxy server. In such configurations determining the identity of the device from which the user is accessing the proxy may be difficult as the device s identity information may not be present in the request presented to the proxy. User credentials on internal networks are typically passed in unsecured plaintext to the proxy server when authenticating the user thus allowing an attacker to illicitly obtain user credentials of legitimate users simply by monitoring network traffic. Consequently when a proxy server employs user identity based authentication the attacker can use the illicitly obtained user credentials to access the proxy server using his or her own device.

With the recent proliferation of mobile devices many network owners have adopted a Bring Your Own Device BYOD approach in which users can access internal networks using personal devices. In BYOD networks shared devices provided by the network owner and connected to the network may also be used e.g. communal PCs in a public library . In that case identifying which device is accessing the proxy server may be preferable so that different Internet policies can be applied to it on a device identity basis. A device identified during authentication as a shared device may require a policy that reflects that the device is shared by multiple users whereas another device that was identified during authentication as being associated only with a single specific user may have a different policy reflecting that fact. For example a policy for a shared device may require that a user be logged out after a certain amount of time to allow other users access to the shared device while a single user may not require such a policy. Accordingly the present disclosure describes systems and methods for separately authenticating a device and a user of the device.

In some implementations a policy may be created by an administrator to configure the proxy settings for a set of devices that will be accessing a proxy server. Based on the policy the proxy server may assign a unique proxy server address for each unique device. The unique proxy server address which can be assigned randomly or by other mechanisms enables the associated device to be uniquely identified for example by its serial number or MAC address. In some implementations the proxy server address may include an Internet Protocol IP address an IP version 6 IPv6 address a port number and or other types of addresses.

When a device attempts to access a network resource via the proxy server the proxy server determines whether the proxy server address to which the request was sent matches the proxy server address assigned to the particular device. If the proxy server address of the request matches the device s assigned proxy server address the proxy server authenticates the device.

Once the device s identity is determined the authentication policy assigned to the device is checked. If the device s authentication policy requires a user login the proxy server may redirect the device to a secure web page at which point the user may be authenticated using the assigned credentials. The web page verifies the user s credentials e.g. such as by communicating with an authentication system . Each proxy request e.g. web page requests from that point forward is made to the device specific proxy address. The proxy server may deny any request originating from a device to a proxy server address that does not match its assigned proxy server address.

This approach has several potential advantages. First it provides increased security by acquiring the user s credentials via a secure web page. Since no credentials are sent as unencrypted plaintext an attacker cannot acquire the user s credential by simply monitoring network traffic. Further the approach is easily implemented since it does not require any new protocols or require any additional information to be passed between the device and the proxy server for authentication.

Further after the initial authentication the device identity is known to the proxy server thereby allowing the proxy server to perform device specific actions such as logging the user out of a specific device after a certain amount of time. For example assume that a user A is logged into a BYOD network using his personal mobile device but then decides also to login to the BYOD network using a shared device without logging his mobile device out of the network i.e. both devices are authenticated on the network concurrently with the same user credentials . Because the systems and techniques described here enable the proxy server to uniquely identify and apply different policies to the different devices with which they are communicating the proxy server can apply policies to user A s mobile device that differ from the policies applied to the shared device that user A is using even though both devices are logged into the network using the same user credentials. For example a time out policy could be applied to the shared device in which case user A is logged out of the shared device after a predetermined period of time while user A s mobile device could be allowed to remain logged into the BYOD network indefinitely. The auditing and separate policy advantages described above may be realized in both networks utilizing insecure authentication mechanisms e.g. Basic Auth and in networks utilizing other more secure authentication mechanisms.

The proxy server may verify that the proxy address matches the proxy address assigned to the requesting device with an authentication system . After successful authentication each device may be assigned a limited access profile by the proxy server . In some implementations the limited access profile may include an indication of whether user authentication is required. The limited access profile may permit each device to access only the secure authentication website via the Internet . The user of each device must then provide user specific credentials to the secure authentication website . In some implementations this interaction may occur over a secure mechanism such as for example Secure Socket Layer SSL via HTTP Secure HTTPS . The secure authentication website authenticates the user specific credentials with the authentication system . In some implementations this interaction may occur through firewall or through other security measures. Once the user s user specific credentials are authenticated the proxy server updates the associated device profile to allow the device to access one or more websites in addition to the secure authentication website . In some implementations the subsequent requests from the device are correlated with the user by examining the user specific credentials associated with the device and a user specific profile is applied to the request.

As shown the environment includes an internal network . In some implementations the internal network may be a wireless network provided by a corporation educational institution municipality business or other entity. Such a wireless network may utilize any standard wireless networking technology including 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n LTE WiMax CDMA or any other suitable wireless networking technology. In such implementations the wireless network may be a public network in the sense that any device within range may connect to the network. Even though any device within range may connect to the internal network in such configurations the device still may be required to authenticate in order to access resources on the internal network and or on the Internet . Such a configuration is often referred to as a Bring Your Own Device BYOD network in which users are free to use their own personal devices for connecting to the network. In some implementations the entity that controls the internal network may issue devices to users for use on the internal network . The internal network may also be a wired network such as an Ethernet network.

The environment also includes one or more devices connected to internal network . In some implementations the one or more devices include mobile devices such as cellular telephones e.g. smartphones tablets laptops e.g. and other similar computing devices. The one or more devices may also include wired devices such as desktop computer . In some implementations the one or more devices include personal devices associated with one or more users. The one or more devices may also include devices issued or owned by the entity that provides the internal network such as company issued smartphones or laptops. In some implementations the one or more devices may include network access or web browsing software e.g. a web browser for accessing resources on the Internet .

In the illustrated implementation the environment also includes an MDM . In some implementations the MDM is configured to provide network settings to the one or more devices . Network settings may include device specific credentials proxy settings or any other suitable settings associated with the one or more devices . In some implementations the MDM allows an administrator to configure profiles including the various settings described above and assign the one or more devices to these profiles. A device assigned to a profile may be assigned the settings associated with the profile. In this way common settings may be applied to multiple devices at once without having to enter the common settings for each device individually.

In some implementations the MDM may be a server or set of servers located on the internal network and accessible by the one or more devices . The MDM may be operable to push network settings to the one or more devices at various times such as for example according to a regular update schedule when triggered by an administrator when requested by a device and or any other appropriate time.

The MDM also includes a device specific proxy address component . In some implementations the MDM may allow an administrator to configure a profile such that each device assigned the profile will be configured with a device specific proxy address. In such a configuration the device specific proxy address component may associate a device specific proxy address with each device on the internal network based on the configured profile. For example the device specific proxy address component may associate a different device specific proxy address for each of the devices . In some implementations the device specific proxy address may be assigned by device specific proxy address component according to parameters configured in the associated profile. For example the device specific proxy address component may select a proxy address from an available pool of proxy addresses to assign to a particular device. The device specific proxy address may also assign a proxy address according to specific rules. For example a rule may instruct the device specific proxy address to assign an IP address from an available pool as well as a port number in the range of 1000 to 65535 to a device as a proxy address. In some cases the assignment of proxy addresses to devices may be performed by a component external to the device specific proxy address component such as the authentication system . In such a case the device specific proxy address component may query the authentication system for the proxy address assigned to a particular device prior to proxy settings being applied to the device by the MDM .

In some implementations the device specific proxy address includes a network identifier such as for example an IP address an IPv6 address an IP address and port combination a Uniform Resource Locator URL and or other network identifiers.

The MDM also includes a proxy settings component . In some implementations the proxy settings component may store and send proxy configuration information to the one or more devices . The one or more devices may use the proxy settings to communicate and authenticate with the proxy server . In some implementations the proxy settings may include but are not limited to an IP address and port of the proxy server a list of authentication mechanisms accepted by the proxy server and or any other suitable proxy settings.

As shown the environment also includes a proxy server connected to the internal network and the Internet . In some implementations the proxy server search is a gateway to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet for the one or more devices . Requests made by the devices may be first passed to the proxy server which will then pass the request on to the Internet . In some implementations the proxy server may perform filtering on these requests such as blocking access to resources on the Internet that are known to include objectionable or otherwise prohibited content. Proxy server may perform this filtering by analyzing requests sent by the one or more devices identifying requests for Uniform Resource Locators URLs of known prohibited sites and returning a response to the sending device indicating that the request will not be fulfilled.

The proxy server includes a proxy authentication component . In some implementations the proxy authentication component interacts with the authentication system to determine whether each of the one or more devices is permitted to access the Internet . In some implementations the proxy authentication component may communicate with the authentication system via an Application Programming Interface API via one or more network protocols such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and or by any other suitable means.

In some implementations the proxy server is configured to receive network requests from the one or more devices . In such a configuration the proxy server may inspect a received request to determine the address to which the request was sent and to determine the device that sent the request. The proxy server may then consult the authentication system discussed below to determine whether the proxy address to which the request was sent matches the proxy address assigned to the device. In some implementations the proxy server may query the authentication system for the proxy address assigned to the device that sent the request such as by supplying an identifier for the device such as a Medium Access Control MAC address associated with the received request. The proxy server may then receive a response from the authentication system indicating the proxy address associated with the device and compare this proxy address with the proxy address to which the request was sent. If the proxy address matches the address configured for the particular device the proxy server may allow the request such as by forwarding it to the appropriate network resource. If the proxy address does not match the proxy server may reject the request.

In the illustrated implementations the proxy server is connected to an authentication system . In some implementations the authentication system may include a domain controller that controls access on the internal network . In some cases the domain controller may be a Microsoft Active Directory system an Apple Open Directory system an OpenLDAP system a Novell eDirectory system and or any other suitable domain controller or combination of domain controllers. In some cases the authentication system may interact with the MDM in the process of provisioning device specific proxy addresses. For example the MDM may communicate with the authentication system to assign a new device specific proxy address to a specific device.

As shown the proxy server is connected to the Internet . In some implementations the Internet is the public Internet. The Internet may also be any network or combination of networks accessed from the internal network via the proxy server . In such an implementation the Internet may be public private or a combination of the two. In some implementations the Internet is a distributed network utilizing the Transmission Control Protocol TCP in combination with HTTP to transmit requests for pages to web servers connected to the Internet and to transmit responses from the web servers to the requesting clients.

The environment also includes a secure authentication website connected to the Internet . In some implementations the secure authentication website is accessed by the one or more devices via the proxy server . The one or more devices may access the secure authentication website using a secure communications method such as for example HTTPS. The secure authentication website may prompt the user of the one or more devices for user specific credentials. In some locations the user specific credentials may include a username and password a certificate an encryption key the token or any other suitable credentials or combination of credentials. Because the user specific credentials are transmitted using the secure communications method an attacker cannot easily obtain the user specific credentials by simply sniffing on the internal network .

When the user specific credentials are received by the secure authentication website the secure authentication website communicates with the authentication system to verify the user specific credentials. This communication may occur through one or more security mechanisms such as for example firewall . If the user specific credentials are verified the device associated with the user may be placed into a less restrictive profile allowing it to access additional websites in addition to the secure authentication website such as for example the one or more websites .

In some implementations after the user specific credentials are received and verified the proxy server may associate each request received from the one or more devices with the specific user currently using the device in question. This association may occur by examining the proxy address on which the request was received and determining the currently associated user specific credentials. In some implementations the proxy server may apply a user specific profile to requests from the one or more devices based on the associated user specific credentials. In some instances the proxy server may use the correlation between user and device to log users off of shared devices after a maximum usage time is reached.

At the MDM pushes proxy settings to the user device . In some implementations the proxy settings include information allowing the user device to communicate with the proxy server such as for example a list of authentication mechanisms supported by the proxy server and or any other suitable settings information. The proxy settings may also include a device specific proxy address associated with the user device . In some implementations the proxy settings are pushed to the user device by the MDM when an administrator updates a profile associated with the user device or assigns a new profile to the user device . The proxy settings may also be pushed to the user device by the MDM according to a schedule and or when the user device first appears on the network.

At user device sends a request via HTTP for the website associated with the URL http blah.com index.html via the proxy server . At the proxy server determines the proxy address associated with the request. In some implementations the proxy server may determine the proxy address by querying the operating system such as by using the recv system call and or other mechanisms. The proxy server may also examine the request itself to determine the proxy address. In some cases the proxy server may be configured with a plurality of proxy addresses such that it can service requests from a plurality of devices that are each assigned a different proxy address.

At the proxy server determines whether the user device is assigned to the proxy address determined at . In some cases the proxy server may consult another component to make this determination such as the authentication system or the MDM . If the proxy server determines that the user device is not assigned the proxy address to which the request was sent at the proxy server sends a rejection of the request to the user device such as the 403 Forbidden response sent at . In some implementations the proxy server may perform other actions in response to determine that the proxy address does not match the proxy address configured for the device such as for example deauthenticating the user device from the network notifying an administrator that the user device has attempted to access a different proxy address than it is assigned blocking the user device from accessing the Internet for a period of time and or other actions.

If the proxy server determines that the user device is assigned to the proxy address on which the request was received the process continues to where the proxy server may examine this HTTP request and determine that it is originating from an unauthenticated user. Proxy server may also determine that the user device is assigned a limited access profile such that it can access only the secure authentication website .

In response to determining that the user device is authenticated only with a device specific proxy address the proxy server at sends a redirect message to the user device directing it to the secure authentication website . In some implementations the redirection may be an HTTP redirect message including a URL associated with secure authentication website as shown in . The redirection may also involve the proxy server communicating with the secure authentication website on behalf of the user device and forwarding the response page to the user device

At the user device initializes an SSL connection to the secure authentication website . In some implementations may involve handshaking or other interaction between the user device and the secure authentication website . Although the secure connection is illustrated as an SSL connection in other types of secure connections may be used including but not limited to Transport Layer Security TLS Multiplexed Transport Layer Security MTLS connections where data is encrypted prior to transport with an encryption algorithm such as Advanced Encryption Standard AES and or any other suitable technique.

At the user device sends an HTTP request to the secure authentication website . In some implementations the HTTP request includes the redirection URL sent by the proxy server at . At the secure authentication website responds with an authentication webpage. In some implementations the authentication webpage includes features allowing the user of the user device to enter a user specific username and password into the authentication webpage. At the user specific username and password are then sent to the secure authentication website such as for example when the user submits the authentication webpage. At secure authentication website sends the user specific username and password to the authentication system for verification. As discussed previously this interaction may occur via a network protocol such as LDAP via an API or by any other suitable mechanism. At the authentication system responds with indication that authentication was successful. In some implementations if the user specific username and password are not verified the authentication system may return an indication that authentication was not successful.

At secure authentication website sends an indication that authentication was successful to the user device . In some implementations this indication may be a webpage indicating successful authentication. Such a webpage may inform the user that they have successfully authenticated and are now free to browse the wider Internet.

At a request is received to access a network resource the request being received at the particular proxy network address. At the device is authenticated based on the particular proxy network address.

At after authenticating the device a user of the device is authenticated based on user specific credentials associated with the user. In some cases authenticating the user occurs via a secure method such as for example HTTPS SSL TLS and or other methods.

In some implementations the method may also include associating the request to the device based on the particular proxy network address logging the request and logging the association of the request to the device. The method may also include tracking a usage pattern of the device based on the user specific credentials of the user of the device and logging the user out of the device in response to the usage pattern indicating that the user has used the device for a time greater than a maximum usage time associated with the device.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Additionally the processor may be implemented using any of a number of architectures. For example the processor may be a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computers processor a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer processor or a MISC Minimal Instruction Set Computer processor. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provided in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN peer to peer networks having ad hoc or static members grid computing infrastructures and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

