---

title: Search query suggestions based on personal information
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for receiving a query initial input from a user, in response to receiving the query initial input, determining a set of personalized query suggestions based on the query initial input, the set of personalized query suggestions including one or more content-based query suggestions that reflect at least one of user data associated with the user within one or more computer-implemented services and use of the one or more computer-implemented services by the user, and transmitting instructions to display the set of personalized query suggestions to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317585&OS=09317585&RS=09317585
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09317585
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Internet search engines provide information about Internet accessible resources e.g. Web pages images text documents and multimedia content that are responsive to a user s search query by returning a set of search results in response to the query. A search result may include for example a Uniform Resource Identifier URI and a snippet of information for resources responsive to a query.

Some Internet search engines provide search suggestions as a user is entering a query. These search suggestions generally correspond to possible completions and or possible matches to the user s input. For example if a user types formic acid prop a search engine may suggest the query completion formic acid properties and or the query match properties of formic acid. These search suggestions can be presented for example in a drop down box that lists the search suggestions.

Implementations of the present disclosure are generally directed to providing personalized query suggestions based on user data associated with a user and or one or more computer implemented services used by the user. More particularly one or more personalized query suggestions can be provided to the user for selection and can be determined based on an initial input by the user. In some implementations respective ranking scores can be provided for each query suggestion and the query suggestions can be displayed in rank order based on the ranking scores. In some examples ranking scores can be determined based on the computer implemented services with which the user interacts and or the user data. Example computer implemented services can include an electronic mail service a chat service a video conferencing service a document sharing service a photo sharing service a video sharing service a social networking service a calendar service a contact management service and any appropriate combinations thereof. In some examples the user data can be information that has been provided to the user and or generated by the user through the computer implemented services.

In some implementations a plurality of personalized query suggestions can be provided based on the initial input. In some examples the initial input can include an n gram of characters input by the user. In some implementations the personalized query suggestions are identified from an index of personalized query suggestions that is associated with a user of a search service. In some implementations non personalized query suggestions are based on other criteria. The personalized query suggestions can be ranked along with the non personalized query suggestions or the personalized and non personalized query suggestions can be ranked separately and presented in a tiered arrangement e.g. all personalized query suggestions first in rank order followed by all non personalized query suggestions in rank order.

In general innovative aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include actions of receiving a query initial input from a user in response to receiving the query initial input determining a set of personalized query suggestions based on the query initial input the set of personalized query suggestions including one or more content based query suggestions that reflect at least one of user data associated with the user within one or more computer implemented services and use of the one or more computer implemented services by the user and transmitting instructions to display the set of personalized query suggestions to the user. Other implementations of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices.

These and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features actions further include determining a rank order of personalized query suggestions in the set of personalized query suggestions the personalized query suggestions being displayed in the rank order the rank order is determined based on at least one of a relevance frequency of use of services and user content associated with services the rank order is based on types of query suggestions in the set of personalized query suggestions each of the one or more content based query suggestions is associated with a computer implemented service of the one or more computer implemented services with which the user has a level of engagement that exceeds a threshold level of engagement actions further include receiving a selection of a query suggestion from the set of personalized query suggestions and in response retrieving one or more search results that are responsive to the query suggestion actions further include identifying the query suggestion as a highest ranking query suggestion wherein the selection is an automatic selection in response to the query suggestion being the highest ranking query suggestion and transmitting instructions to display one or more search results associated with the highest ranking query suggestion as preliminary search results the set of personalized query suggestions further includes one or more history based query suggestions each history based query suggestion reflecting a query previously submitted by the user and the one or more content based query suggestions include at least one of content generated by the user within one or more computer implemented services content received by the user within the one or more computer implemented services and indicating use by the user of the one or more computer implemented services.

Particular implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Users are assisted in formulating personalized search queries. More particularly personalized query formulation can be a difficult task as users may not be aware of the personalized search features provided by the search service. Consequently users may not utilize the full potential of personalized search queries resulting in search results that might be less useful to the user. As discussed herein implementations of the present disclosure provide personalized assistance to the user in formulating search queries based on the services they use the user information provided through the services and available user information. In this manner relevant search queries can be suggested to the user that can be used to enhance the relevancy of the search results presented to the user.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the client devices can be provided as computing devices such as laptop or desktop computers smartphones personal digital assistants portable media players tablet computers or other appropriate computing devices. In some implementations the server system can be a single computing device such as a computer server. In some implementations the server system can represent more than one computing device working together to perform the actions of a server computer e.g. cloud computing . In some implementations the network can be a public communication network e.g. the Internet cellular data network dialup modems over a telephone network or a private communications network e.g. private LAN leased lines .

Users of the client devices can access the one or more computer implemented services provided by the server system and or other server systems not shown . Example computer implemented services can include search services electronic message services instant messaging chat services social networking service blogging services and digital content sharing services. In some examples users of the client devices can be contacts of one another in one or more of the computer implemented services. Consequently each user can be associated with a user specific social graph discussed in further detail herein that is at least partially defined based on user interaction through the computer implemented services.

In some examples the server system can host a search service provided by a search system . In some examples the search system and components thereof can be provided as one or more computer programs that can be executed using one or more processors. In the depicted example the search system includes a query suggestion engine a search engine a suggested queries SQ index a user index and a resource index . In some examples one or more components can be combined. For example the search engine can include the query auto completion engine the SQ index the personal index and or the resource index .

In some implementations the query suggestion engine can process an initial search query input provided by a searching user to identify one or more query suggestions and to provide at least one of the one or more query suggestions for display to the user as discussed in further detail herein. In some examples the query suggestion engine retrieves information from the SQ index and or the personal index . In some examples the SQ index includes a plurality of query suggestions that might be responsive to one or more initial inputs received at the search system .

In some implementations the SQ index includes queries that are provided as search queries by one or more users of the search service. In this manner the SQ index provides a body of queries that can be accessed based on an initial search query associated with the searching user an identifier identifying the user a location of the user and or any other attribute or combination of attributes associated with the searching user the initial search query or any other suitable piece of information. In some examples the query suggestions provided in the SQ index can be updated relatively frequently. In some examples the SQ index can be updated in response to a threshold number of queries being received and or after a threshold time has lapsed since being last updated. For example because the query suggestions are provided based at least in part on search queries that users submit to the search system search suggestions can be frequently added to the SQ index . In some implementations a relevance of each query suggestion to the searching user can be determined. In some cases the relevance may be dynamic.

In some examples the query suggestion engine generates one or more suggestions on the fly based on processing of the initial search query input. In some examples the user index includes user specific information related to one or more services used by the user. For example the user index may include calendar appointments entered by the user into a calendar service electronic messages received and sent by the user using an electronic message service or any other suitable user information. In some implementations the user index can be a collection of different indexes associated with one or more services used by the user. For example an electronic message service and a calendar service may each maintain their own separate indexes both of which may be included in the user index . In some examples the user index can store a copy of the data from the individual service indexes. In some examples the user index can include pointers and or links to the separate service indexes.

In some implementations the user index may include individual entries or data items associated with the different services used by the user. For example the user index can include electronic messages sent or received by the user calendar entries stored by the user reservations made by the user purchases made by the user tickets to events purchased by the user photos uploaded by the user documents uploaded by the user social network posts submitted by the user and or any other suitable data items associated with the different services.

In some implementations the search engine can process an initial input and or a search query to generate relevant search results. In some examples the search results include representations of and hyperlinks to one or more resources that are available over the network . Example resources can include web pages images videos files and or any other appropriate digital content available over the network . In some examples the resource index includes information regarding resources that are available over the network and a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with each resource. In some examples search results responsive to the initial input and or the search query can be provided for display to searching users and can include information provided from the resource index .

In accordance with implementations of the present disclosure one or more query suggestions personal query suggestions can be provided to a searching user of a computer implemented search service at least one of the one or more search suggestions being provided based at least in part on information that is specific to the searching user. In some examples the user can provide an initial search query input to the search service the initial input being provided as a sequence of characters. The search service can identify one or more query suggestions based on the initial input and the information specific to the user. In some examples a plurality of query suggestions is identified based on the initial input. As discussed in further detail herein personal query suggestions can include content based query suggestions and history based query suggestions.

In some implementations content based personal query suggestions can be provided based on content provided by the user and or by other users within one or more computer implemented services. Consequently content based query suggestions indicate content associated with the user through one or more computer implemented services. As introduced above example computer implemented services can include search services electronic message services instant messaging chat services social networking service blogging services calendar services and digital content sharing services e.g. video sharing services image sharing service document sharing services. In some examples a user can provide e.g. generate user provided content within a service. For example a user can send and or receive electronic messages within the electronic message service. As another example a user can write and distribute social networking posts in the social networking service. As another example a user can share images videos and or documents with other users in the content sharing service. Example content based query suggestions can include my email my posts and or my photos reflecting use of an electronic message service a social networking service and an image sharing service.

In some examples content based query suggestions can be provided based on entities and or attributes associated with user provided content. Example entities can include an airline a hotel a restaurant a product and an event e.g. a theater performance a concert a sporting event. For example a user can book a flight on an airline and can receive an electronic message in an electronic message service confirming the booking and or can enter flight information as a calendar entry in a calendar service. Continuing with this example the user can provide initial input of consolidated and an example content based personal query suggestion can be provided as my flights on consolidated airlines reflecting a booking with the fictitious airline Consolidated Airlines. As another example a user can make a reservation at a restaurant e.g. an online reservation and can receive an electronic message in an electronic message service confirming the reservation. Continuing with this example the user can provide initial input of good food and an example content based personal query suggestion can be provided as my reservation at good food reflecting a reservation with the fictitious restaurant Good Food.

In some implementations content based query suggestions can be provided based on a level of engagement with the one or more computer implemented services. In some examples a level of engagement associated with a particular service can be determined based on a number of times the user has used the service and or a frequency of use of the service. In some examples if the user has never used a particular service the level of engagement can be provided as a minimum value. In some examples if the user frequently uses the particular service the level of engagement can be provided as a maximum. In some examples the level of engagement of a particular user with a particular service can range between the minimum value and the maximum value.

In some examples whether content based personal query suggestions are to be provided for content associated with particular computer implemented service can be determined based on an amount of user associated content for a particular service and or the level of engagement with the particular service. For example a user can be associated with a number of content e.g. electronic messages images videos documents within a particular service. In some examples if the number of content exceeds a threshold number content based query suggestions reflecting the particular service can be provided. As another example a level of engagement of the user with the particular service can be compared to a threshold level of engagement. In some examples if the level of engagement exceeds the threshold level of engagement content based query suggestions reflecting the particular service can be provided. In some examples content based query suggestions reflecting a particular service are only provided if the number of content exceeds the threshold number and the level of engagement exceeds the threshold level of engagement. In some examples content based query suggestions reflecting a particular service are only provided if the number of content exceeds the threshold number. In some examples content based query suggestions reflecting a particular service are only provided if the level of engagement exceeds the threshold level of engagement.

In some examples personal query suggestions can include history based query suggestions. In some examples and in contrast to content based query suggestions history based query suggestions include search queries previously submitted by the user. In some examples history based query suggestions exclusively include search queries previously submitted by the user during previous use of the search service. For example if the user had previously submitted the query my email from john friend the query my email from john friend can be provided as a history based query suggestion in response to initial input e.g. email .

In some implementations query suggestions can be provided in a rank order. In some examples query suggestions can be ordered based on type. In some examples history based query suggestions can be ranked higher than content based query suggestions. For example example personal query suggestions can include my email from john friend as a history based query suggestion and my email as a content based query suggestion. Consequently the query suggestion my email from john friend can be ranked higher than the query suggestion my email . In some examples content based query suggestions can be ranked higher than history based query suggestions. Using the example above the query suggestion my email can be ranked higher than the query suggestion my email from john friend .

In some implementations for each query suggestion a ranking score can be provided. In some examples the ranking score can be at least partially based on user specific information. In some examples the ranking score can be at least partially based on type of query suggestion e.g. content based or history based. In some implementations a rank order of query suggestions is determined based on the ranking scores and query suggestions can be displayed to the user in the rank order. In some implementations the query suggestions can be provided in ranked tiers associated with the different types of query suggestions. For example previous searches performed by the user can be provided in a first tier and can be presented more prominently e.g. first in the list of query suggestions. In some examples query suggestions that are based on the user specific information can be presented in a second tier. In some examples query suggestions based on other factors e.g. aggregate user search activity can be presented in a third tier. In some examples preview search results can be generated based on a highest ranking query suggestion and can be displayed to the user.

In some implementations and as discussed above the query suggestions can reflect frequently used services associated with the user. For example if the user searches for photos the system can include the query suggestion my photos . In some examples the query suggestion my photos can be provided in response to determining that the searching user uses a computer implemented image sharing service. In another example if the user searches for tickets the system may include the query suggestion my tickets . In some examples the query suggestion tickets can be provided in response to determining that the searching user uses a computer implemented ticket service.

In some implementations user specific information related to use of computer implemented services is provided in an index. As discussed herein such an index can be used for storing and managing user specific information for providing query suggestions. In some examples user specific information related to computer implemented services may also be stored in indexes associated with the computer implemented services themselves. In some examples an index can be provided as a database a collection of databases and or tables or other structures within a database for storing information. In some implementations each of the computer implemented services can provide an application programming interface API that can be used to retrieve user specific information for providing query suggestions.

As discussed above the search service can present query suggestions based on use of computer implemented services. In some examples a frequency of use of a computer implemented service can reflect relevance to an associated search query. In some examples frequency of use can influence a position of a query suggestion in a query suggestion list. In some examples frequency of use can be determined based on a number of times the user has interacted with the particular computer implemented service the amount of data the user has entered or stored in the particular computer implemented service and or any other suitable metric.

In some implementations a query suggestion can include a link to an underlying computer implemented service and or link to a data item within the computer implemented service. For example if the user searches for my email the search service can present the user with a query suggestion of my email to John Smith associated with an electronic message that the user has received from John Smith. In another example if the user enters Locanda a resort that the user has reserved a vacation to the query suggestion my reservation at Locanda can be displayed and can be associated with a link to the user s reservation.

In some implementations query suggestions based on use of computer implemented services can also be associated with a link to an external site or resource associated with the data item. For example if the user has recently purchased a flight on the airline Consolidated Airlines the search query consolidated can provide a query suggestion of my flight on consolidated which can be associated with a link to a website of the airline.

In some examples query suggestions can be presented to a searching user who is not logged into the search service e.g. a non authenticated user. In some implementations the query suggestions for a non authenticated user can include query suggestions associated with one or more computer implemented services. For example a query suggestion can be associated with a computer implemented service and can include a sign in link inviting the user to sign into the particular computer implemented service. In some examples query suggestions in such examples can be ranked according to the popularity of the services in the overall user base.

By way of example a searching user inputs the initial input photos to a search box of a search service. In response to the initial input a set of query suggestions can be identified. The query suggestions can include searches that the user has previously performed e.g. history based query suggestions popular search queries submitted to the search service and content based query suggestions based on the initial input. In some examples the query suggestions can be ordered such that the history based query suggestions appear first in the list followed by the content based query suggestions e.g. ordered by relevance followed by the popular search queries e.g. ordered by relevance.

In some implementations the initial input can be processed by a query suggestion engine e.g. the query suggestion engine of to identify a plurality of query suggestions that might be relevant to the initial input. In some examples the initial input is provided as input to a database of search suggestions e.g. the query suggestion index of and query suggestions that are determined to be relevant to the initial input are retrieved. In response to the example initial input safari example query suggestions can include safaris in africa safari in tanzania safari at home and wild safari . For example the query suggestion safaris in africa includes the initial input safari and the completion s in africa the search suggestion safari in tanzania includes the initial input safari and the completion in tanzania the search suggestion safari at home includes the initial input safari and the completion at home .

In some implementations user specific information can be accessed by the query suggestion engine e.g. the search suggestion engine can retrieve user specific information from the personal index . More particularly the query suggestion engine can retrieve user specific information that can be used to generate additional query suggestions. In the depicted example the user entering the initial search query safari may have a safari in Tanzania scheduled in the upcoming weeks e.g. recorded in a computer implemented calendar service. In such an example the user may be presented with the query suggestion of my safari in Tanzania .

In some implementations the query suggestion engine provides the list of query suggestions for display to the searching user and to a search engine e.g. the search engine of . For example the list of query suggestions and data associated with one or more of the query suggestions can be provided to a client computing device of the searching user for display to the user. In the example of a dropdown menu is displayed below the search box and is populated with the query suggestions determined by the query suggestion engine. The dropdown menu includes a query suggestion for safari in tanzania . In some implementations the query suggestion may indicate that the searching user has previously searched for the search term or that the query suggestion is a popular search term. The drop down menu also includes a personal query suggestion for my safari in tanzania . The personal query suggestion can be provided based on user specific information retrieved from the personal index . For example the user specific information can indicate that the searching user has a safari in Tanzania scheduled in the near future. In such a case the search service may determine that the user might be interested in information related to the scheduled safari and present the personal query suggestion .

In some implementations the highest ranking query suggestion is provided to the search engine and preliminary search results are generated based on the query suggestion. For example the search engine e.g. the search engine of can access a resource index e.g. the resource index of to identify one or more search results relevant to the query suggestion. The one or more search results can be provided for display to the user. In the depicted example preliminary search results are identified based on the query suggestion safari in tanzania and are displayed to the user. If the user selects the query suggestion safari in tanzania as the search query e.g. clicks on safari in tanzania in the dropdown menu the preliminary search results can be provided as final search results. If however the user selects another query suggestion e.g. clicks on safari at home in the dropdown menu the preliminary search results are replaced with search results that correspond to the selected query.

In some implementations the search results are not displayed until after the searching user has selected a query suggestion. For example in response to the searching user selecting the query suggestion a search query is submitted search results responsive to the search query are received and are displayed to the searching user.

In the depicted example the drop down menu also includes a personal query suggestion containing the text my photos . In some examples the personal query suggestion can be provided in response to user specific information e.g. from the personal index indicating that the user uses a photo sharing service. In the depicted example the personal search suggestion is provided with a link to the photo service. In some examples a description e.g. a description is displayed next to each personal query suggestion e.g. the query suggestion in the drop down menu . In some examples the description explains to the searching user the action clicking the respective personal query suggestion will perform. In some examples the personal query suggestion may include additional text indicating a form of query the user can issue. For example the suggestion may contain the text my photos on date where the text date or on date is augmented e.g. italicized colored in grey to convey to the user that they can issue a query of this form.

In the depicted example the drop down menu also includes general query suggestions e.g. photosynthesis and photostream . The general query suggestions can include popular search queries across users of the search service.

In the depicted example the drop down menu also includes a personal query suggestion containing the text my flights on consolidated . In some implementations the personal query suggestion can be provided in response to an indication that the searching user has and or had flights scheduled on an airline reflected in the initial search query . In some examples the personal query suggestion can be associated with a link e.g. to calendar appointments in a calendar service associated with the flights. In some examples the personal query suggestion can be associated with a link to a flight status page associated with the airline. In some implementations the search service may perform additional processing to attempt to determine an appropriate link for the searching user. For example if the searching user has a flight scheduled for today search service can determine that the user is most likely trying to check in to the flight and provide an appropriate link. As another example if the user was searching several weeks from the flight a link to flight information can be provided.

In the depicted example the initial search query in the example search box has been appended with a completion corresponding to the query suggestion . In some implementations the completion is automatically added in response to presenting the drop down menu and corresponds to the first query suggestion in the drop down menu .

The drop down menu includes a personal query suggestion containing the text my email from bob jones . In some implementations the personal query suggestion indicates that the user has received an electronic message in an electronic message service from the sender named Bob Jones and can be associated with a link to the specific electronic message. In some examples the personal query suggestion can indicate that the user frequently receives electronic messages from Bob Jones and can be associated with a link to multiple electronic messages from Bob Jones. 

In the depicted example the drop down menu also includes a query suggestion containing the text my email is sending spam . In this example the query suggestion is not a personal query suggestion even though it appears to be formatted as a personal query suggestion. This example illustrates that contents of the searching user s initial search query e.g. my email can also result in non personal query suggestions being presented.

Implementations of the present disclosure have been discussed herein with reference to an example context including search queries submitted to a computer implemented search service. It is contemplated however that implementations of the present disclosure can be provided in other contexts. For example implementations of the present disclosure can be provided with any appropriate computer implemented service that enables users to submit queries.

A search query initial input is received . For example a user of a client computing device enters the initial input into a search box of a web page of a search service and the initial input is transmitted to the search service. Non personal query suggestions are determined based on the initial input . For example non personal query suggestions can include query suggestions that are determined to be popular among users of a search system in aggregate. Personalized query suggestions are determined based on the search query initial input . In some examples the one or more personalized query suggestions can indicate at least one of user data associated with the user and one or more services used by the user. For example for a search query initial input of photos the determined personalized query suggestions may include a suggestion of my photos based on an indication that the user uses a computer implemented image sharing service. A query suggestion order is determined For example an order of non personalized and personalized query suggestions relative to one another can be determined. Instructions are transmitted to display the query suggestions to the user . For example personalized query suggestions and or non personalized query suggestions can be provided for display in the query suggestion order.

Implementations of the present disclosure and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be realized using digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the present disclosure can be implemented as one or more computer program products e.g. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the present disclosure can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations of the present disclosure can be provided in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the present disclosure or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be provided in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the present disclosure have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

