---

title: Mobile point-of-presence for on demand network client services and security
abstract: Devices, systems and methods are disclosed which relate to implementing a point-of-presence system on a mobile service network. Such a point-of-presence system includes a mobile device communications network; a mobile device; a point-of-presence logic installed on a mobile device; and an application server in communication with the point-of-presence logic via the communications network. Communications between the point-of-presence logic and the network and application server include network data, configuration, and/or installation of connection and device management applications. This point-of-presence system constitutes a mechanism for the service provider to best optimize network resources, even at the device level, while providing optimum network service to mobile users—even for mobile devices that have not been pre-configured for the mobile service network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432386&OS=09432386&RS=09432386
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09432386
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130513
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 576 470 entitled Mobile Point Of Presence for On Demand Network Client Services and Security filed Oct. 9 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 442 510 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of communications networks. In particular the present invention relates to methods systems and devices that enable device level and network level network operator control.

Erroneous mobile device behavior can compromise user data corrupt billing records or even congest network resources denying or degrading data and voice service to users. Examples of such behavior include tampering with device firmware to allow the user to place an unbilled phone call or mobile device infection by a virus which causes it to take part in a distributed denial of service attack on a server. As well the wireless communications networks frequently used by mobile devices add new challenges in network performance not sufficiently accounted for by protocols designed with wired networks in mind.

Traditionally there has been a link between mobile devices and mobile service providers. For example the iPhone is only available in the United States for use on the AT T mobile service network. Typically a user purchases a service plan from a mobile service provider and is presented with a choice of mobile devices configured by the mobile service provider for that service plan.

Increasingly however users desire the freedom to choose a mobile device independently from their choice of mobile service provider. As mobile devices become more complex it makes more sense for users to keep their mobile devices even if they desire to switch their mobile service providers. Such a consideration was less important when the difference in handsets was mainly cosmetic. Currently so much personal data is present on these devices that switching devices can require significant effort. In addition when mobile service providers need to specifically configure mobile devices for their network mobile service providers are forced to have to deal with thousands of mobile device and operating system vendors. This necessity means that introducing new services and network features to their users is that much more tortuous. Such considerations have given rise to the proliferation for sale of unlocked devices i.e. devices not tied by some means to work only with a particular mobile service provider.

While they provide opportunities to users and mobile service providers the proliferation of such devices can pose increased threats to communications networks maintained by service providers. When a mobile service provider configures a mobile device before allowing it to operate on its mobile service network it has for example the opportunity to install device identification performance monitoring and troubleshooting software directly into the mobile device. Furthermore as the standard operating system software such as Symbian generally found on unlocked devices displaces the proprietary software heretofore found on non unlocked mobile devices the ability of a virus to create a mass infection of mobile devices becomes that much greater.

Thus there is a need for systems methods and devices that allow mobile service providers to monitor and control mobile devices even when they have not been pre configured to operate on the mobile service network.

The present invention discloses systems methods and devices implementing a point of presence system on a mobile service network. Such a point of presence system comprises a mobile device communications network a mobile device a point of presence logic installed on a mobile device and an application server in communication with the point of presence logic via the communications network. Communications between the point of presence logic and the application server include network data configuration and or installation of connection and device management applications. This point of presence system constitutes a mechanism for the service provider to best optimize network resources even at the device level while providing optimum network service and quality of experience to mobile users.

In an exemplary embodiment of a point of presence system communications between the point of presence logic and the application server implement the initial configuration of an off the shelf mobile device. This enables the mobile device to connect to the mobile service network the application server to remotely diagnose device function including problems with its connection to the network the application server to perform customer service transactions for the user of the mobile device dynamic optimization of the network connection including optimization based on user behavior and or applications in use on the mobile device and implementation of security protocols when an attack on the device or the network is detected or anticipated.

In one exemplary embodiment the present invention is a mobile device. The mobile device includes a microprocessor a memory in communication with the microprocessor a point of presence logic stored in the memory or on a smart card coupled to the mobile device and a transceiver in communication with the point of presence logic via the microprocessor. The point of presence logic constitutes a mechanism for the service provider to best optimize resources on a communications network even at the device level while providing optimum network service.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a point of presence system. The point of presence system includes a communications network a mobile device connected to the communications network an applications server connected to the communications network and a point of presence logic running on the mobile device. The point of presence logic optimizes the mobile device s connection to the communications network based on a plurality of data received from the applications server.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a mobile device. The mobile device includes a microprocessor a memory in communication with the microprocessor a point of presence logic stored in the memory and a transceiver in communication with the point of presence logic via the microprocessor. The point of presence logic constitutes a mechanism for the service provider to best optimize resources on a communications network even at the device level while providing optimum network service. The memory may be part of a smart card coupled to the mobile device.

The present invention discloses systems methods and devices implementing a point of presence system on a mobile service network. Such a point of presence system comprises a mobile device communications network a mobile device a point of presence logic installed on a mobile device and an application server in communication with the point of presence logic via the communications network. Communications between the point of presence logic and the application server include network data configuration and or installation of connection and device management applications. This communication can occur via a closed loopback protocol. This point of presence system constitutes a mechanism for the service provider to best optimize network resources even at the device level while providing optimum network service to mobile users. The point of presence logic may be stored on a memory on a smart card that is removably coupled to the mobile device.

In an exemplary embodiment of a point of presence system communications between the point of presence logic and the application server implement the initial configuration of an off the shelf mobile device. This enables the mobile device to connect to the mobile service network the application server to remotely diagnose device function including problems with its connection to the network retrieve local performance statistics collected on the device the application server to perform customer service transactions for the user of the mobile device dynamic optimization of the network connection including optimization based on applications real time and historical user behavior in use on the mobile device and implementation of security protocols when an attack on the device or the network is detected or anticipated.

As used herein and throughout this disclosure a mobile device refers to any information processing portable device able to maintain a connection to a network through which it exchanges information with other entities or a fixed location device using the wireless network for its communication. Examples of acceptable mobile devices by this definition include smartphones personal data assistants PDAs laptop computers netbooks cellular telephones etc. as well as fixed wireless terminals such as vending machines point of sale terminals etc.

As used herein and throughout this disclosure configuration of such a mobile device for a communications network refers to installation of software on the mobile device or enablement of pre existing software on a smart card coupled to the mobile device setting of mobile device parameters and or registration of the mobile device with the operator of the communications network so the mobile device is able to operate on the communications network. As used herein and throughout this disclosure pre configuration of such a mobile device for a communications network refers to configuration of the mobile device for the communications network at the time of its manufacture or before the purchase of the device by its user specifically for that communications network. In some cases pre configuring the device in this manner includes installing identification security and connection management software. As used herein and throughout this disclosure such a mobile device is said to be off the shelf with respect to a given communications network if it has not undergone pre configuration for that communications network. As used herein and throughout this disclosure to attack such a mobile device refers to a deliberate communication by a third party neither the user of the device nor the operator of the communications network to the mobile device which causes the mobile device to malfunction or causes other entities to malfunction. By this definition examples of such attacks include installing viruses worms or Trojan Horses on the mobile device or causing the device to participate in a distributed denial of service attack.

For the following description it can be assumed that most correspondingly labeled structures across the figures e.g. and etc. possess the same characteristics and are subject to the same structure and function. If there is a difference between correspondingly labeled elements that is not pointed out and this difference results in a non corresponding structure or function of an element for a particular embodiment then that conflicting description given for that particular embodiment shall govern.

For context displays a schematic diagram of a distributed denial of service attack. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a point of presence system curtails the effectiveness of such an attack. In such an attack an attacking computer through for example installation of malicious software causes a plurality of handler computers to infect a plurality of compromised computers so that at the command of attacking computer compromised computers flood a target server with requests for service. Such attacks so congest the network of which target server is a part that they effectively deny legitimate requests from other entities for service by target server or simply so overwhelm it that its software crashes.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention instead of the mobile device itself accessing the web portal to begin its configuration for the communications network a distinct computing entity such as a desktop computer in communication with the mobile device accesses the web portal to initiate the configuration of the mobile device via the communication between the mobile device and the distinct computing entity. In another alternative embodiment instead of the configuration of the mobile device for the communications network occurring over the air the user of the mobile device configures the mobile device for the communications network by plugging a USB dongle storing a program that when run by the user of the mobile device installs the plurality of network element software and tunes mobile device hardware and software according to the configuration parameters. In yet another alternative embodiment the user of the mobile device configures the mobile device for the communications network by installing into an appropriate slot of the mobile device a smart SIM card such as a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC which implements a program that installs the plurality of network element software and tunes mobile device hardware and software according to the configuration parameters. In this embodiment the plurality of network element software and configuration parameters are either stored on the UICC itself or the UICC directs the mobile device to make a connection to a remote server from which the mobile device downloads the required network element software and configuration parameters.

In a further embodiment of the present invention the communications from the application server to the mobile device constitute a request to the point of presence logic on the device to transfer the information contained in the public and private device level management information bases MIBs to the application server. As a result of this request the point of presence logic acting as an agent for the network and application server sends the requested information to the application server so the application server is able to decide if any adjustments or limitations need to be made in the connection between the mobile device and the communications network.

In this embodiment an antenna receives a signal from the application server. A codec translates this signal into signal content understandable by the software running on mobile device . In this embodiment such translation includes decoding of the received signal. The signal content is then passed to the SDR application programming interface API which depending on the signal content passes the signal content to the relevant applications running on mobile device via operating system .

In this embodiment the signal content informs point of presence logic that mobile device has been acting in an anomalous manner. In this embodiment the applications server comparing the usual network usage profile for the user of mobile device noted a sharp increase in requests by mobile device to a server which has been reported as a target for a distributed denial of service attack. Point of presence logic as it monitors the network traffic of mobile device then blocks any traffic from a plurality of mobile device applications headed to the IP address of the targeted server.

In an alternative embodiment the point of presence logic periodically transmits a plurality of user network usage statistics to a user profile maintained on the applications server. In that embodiment maintenance of such a user profile aids in detecting anomalous behavior on the part of mobile device . In another alternative embodiment a plurality of new network applications are downloaded from the applications server and stored on a device memory . In another alternative embodiment the point of presence logic instructs the SDR via the SDR API to switch the implemented communications protocol from a GSM cellular protocol to a WIFI protocol when the point of presence logic detects a strong enough WIFI connection to ensure acceptable quality of service for the in use network applications. Because every layer of communication protocols between the mobile device and the communications network is able to be configured by the point of presence logic cross layer optimization schemes are able to be implemented by the point of presence logic as well. Although the present embodiment is described with respect to an SDR the present invention is not limited to SDR devices and non SDR devices can still perform the actions disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the service sign up page requests payment information prior to allowing the download. In further embodiments the download link does not become active until the payment has been processed.

Embodiments of the network feature installation pages including a wide array of applications. Those having skill in the art will recognize other applications appropriate for download.

The foregoing disclosure of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the present invention the specification may have presented the method and or process of the present invention as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the present invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

