---

title: Multi-slot antenna and mobile device
abstract: A mobile communications device having a patch antenna which has defined therein at least two slots each having two or more parts. The at least two slots may include an L-shaped slot and a C-shaped slot, wherein the slots can be open or closed. The L-shaped slot may be an open-slot projecting into the patch antenna from the edge. Ground and signal connections may be at the edge of the patch on either side of the L-shaped slot. The C-shaped slot may be nested within the L-shaped slot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08884825&OS=08884825&RS=08884825
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08884825
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130905
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 835 601 filed Jul. 13 2010. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 835 601 claimed priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 226 500 filed Jul. 17 2009. Both previously filed documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present application generally relates to an antenna and in particular to a multi slot antenna and a mobile device incorporating the multi slot antenna.

Modern mobile communications devices are often equipped to operate on more than one frequency band. For example some devices are capable of communicating on GSM 850 and GSM 1900. Yet other devices are capable of communication on GSM 900 and GSM 1800. Some tri band devices or even quad band devices are configured to operate on three or four bands.

In addition modern mobile communications devices are often multi mode devices configured to communicate in more than one mode. For example a multi mode device may be configured to communicate with WWAN wireless wide area networks in accordance with standards such as GSM EDGE 3GPP UMTS etc. and may further be configured to communicate with WLAN wireless local area networks in accordance with standards like IEEE 802.11. Some devices are also equipped for short range communications such as Bluetooth . The multi functionality of these devices often requires multiple antennas within the devices in order to communicate over the various frequency bands.

At the same time the form factors for mobile communications devices are increasingly sleek and compact. This puts space within the device at a premium and makes it difficult to accommodate multiple antennas.

It would be advantageous to provide for an antenna that has a low profile but is capable of operating on multiple frequency bands.

In one aspect the present application describes a mobile communication device. The device includes a dielectric substrate having a surface a radio frequency patch antenna formed from a conductive material on the surface of the substrate a signal feed conductor connected to the patch antenna and a ground conductor connecting the patch antenna to a ground plane. The patch antenna has defined therein at least two slots.

In another aspect the present application describes a mobile communication device. The device includes a dielectric substrate having a surface a radio frequency multi band patch antenna formed from a conductive material on the surface of the substrate a signal feed conductor connected to the patch antenna and a ground conductor connecting the patch antenna to a ground plane. The patch antenna has defined therein a first slot and a second slot. The first slot and the second slot each have two or more parts.

In yet another aspect the present application describes a multiband antenna that includes a dielectric substrate having a surface a patch of conductive material on the surface of the substrate a signal feed conductor connected to the patch and a ground conductor connecting to the patch. The patch has defined therein at least two slots. The at least two slots each have two or more parts.

In some cases at least one part of each of the first and second slots is open to an edge of the patch. In some embodiments the second slot is disposed on the patch between at least one of the parts of the first slot and the edge of the patch. In some embodiments the signal feed conductor is connected to the patch between the first and second slots. In some embodiments the signal feed conductor is connected to the edge of the patch between the parts of the respective first and second slot that are open to that edge.

In some embodiments the first and second slots include an L shaped slot and a C shaped slot. In some embodiments the L shaped slot is an open slot projecting into the patch antenna from an edge. In some embodiments the C shaped slot is also an open slot projecting into the patch antenna from the edge. The signal feed conductor may be connected to the same edge of the patch antenna at a point between the L shaped slot and the C shaped slot. In some embodiments the C shaped slot is nested within the L shaped slot.

Many electronic devices include an antenna for radio frequency communications including mobile devices laptop computers desktop computers smartphones personal digital assistants and many other such devices. Multi mode or multi band devices are configured to operate on more than one frequency band. Accordingly such devices required more than one antenna or at least one antenna that is capable of operating on more than one band.

Reference is now made to which diagrammatically illustrates an example embodiment of an antenna . The antenna is a low profile patch antenna formed from a conducting material such as a metal. In this embodiment the patch antenna includes a main patch formed as a generally rectangular portion having a length L and width W. The generally rectangular portion includes a lower edge and upper edge a left edge and a right edge . In other embodiments other shapes for the patch antenna may be used including other polygonal shapes.

In this embodiment a tuning stub extends from one side of the rectangular portion . In this embodiment the tuning stub extends from the right side of the upper edge . The tuning stub is integral with the rectangular portion to form a single polygonal patch. The tuning stub is placed and sized to tune the common mode resonance of the antenna as will be described further below. Those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate that the patch antenna need not necessarily include the tuning stub and that the dimensions and shape of the patch may be adjusted to tune the common mode resonance of the antenna . Industrial design restrictions imposed by the form factor of the mobile device or other device in which the antenna will be used may make use of the tuning stub advantageous for those situations in which particular dimensions of the patch cannot be varied in a manner to achieve the desired resonance.

A signal feed conductor connects to the lower edge of the rectangular portion . The signal feed conductor supply excitation current to the antenna from driving circuitry such as a transceiver not shown . When used for reception the signal feed conductor conducts current induced in the antenna by incident RF signals to receiving circuitry not shown such as a transceiver for filtering amplification and demodulation. The signal feed conductor in this embodiment connects to the lower edge at a position to the right of the center of the rectangular portion . The centerline of the rectangular portion is illustrated by a dashed line labeled . Although in the embodiments described herein the signal feed conductor may be considered a microstrip type direct feed connector those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate that the signal feed conductor may be a different type of feed. For example in some embodiments a coax feed connector may be used. In yet other embodiments an indirect coupling may be used such as a capacitive or inductive coupling.

A ground conductor also connects to the lower edge of the rectangular portion . The ground conductor connects to a ground plane not shown . The ground plane is typically roughly parallel to and spaced apart from the antenna . In an electronic device the antenna may be supported by or mounted upon a non conducting substrate of suitable dielectric material. The dielectric material may space the antenna apart from an underlying ground plane in some embodiments.

Two or more slots individually labeled and are formed in the generally rectangular portion . The two or more slots and each have two or more parts. The term parts in this context refers to the joined segments that make up the slot. In the embodiment shown the segments are straight line segments or parts that are joined at right angles however it will be understood that in some embodiments one or more parts may not be straight and two parts may be joined at an angle other than a right angle. In some cases a part may be curved or have a non uniform width. In this embodiment the slots are an L shaped slot and a C shaped slot and they extend from the lower edge of the generally rectangular portion .

The slots and in this embodiment are of different length. Accordingly they have different resonant frequencies however in this embodiment they are formed to have resonant frequencies sufficiently close that in combination they result in wideband performance for the antenna .

In this particular embodiment the slots and are located on either side of the signal feed conductor . In particular the L shaped slot extends from the lower edge to the right of the signal feed conductor and the C shaped slot extends from the lower edge to the left of the signal feed conductor . The L shaped slot has a first section that extends upwards from the lower edge in the direction of the upper edge and a second section that extends from the upper end of the first section perpendicular to the first section towards the left edge . The second section in this embodiment extends beyond the centerline .

In this embodiment the C shaped slot is an open C shape facing towards the L shaped slot . In particular the C shaped slot includes a first portion that extends perpendicularly from the lower edge towards the upper edge . It then includes a second portion that extends perpendicular to the first portion towards the left edge . The second portion extends beyond the centerline . The C shaped slot then includes a third portion and a fourth portion to form the C shape.

In this embodiment the C shaped slot is at least partly nested below or in the L shaped slot . In particular the C shaped slot is disposed between the second section of the L shaped slot and the edge .

The length and relative positioning of the C shaped slot and L shaped slot produce two slot based resonances that create a coupling effect that improves the impedance matching for the desired frequency bands to produce a wideband resonance for the antenna .

Because the slots are open at the edge they are termed open slots as opposed to closed slots. A closed slot is one located entirely within the boundaries or edges of the patch. In some embodiments the C shaped slot may be a closed slot. The L shaped slot may in some embodiments be a closed slot however in its location shown in it serves to separate the current paths of the signal feed conductor from the ground conductor . Accordingly if the L shaped slot were made a closed slot the signal feed conductor or the ground conductor may need to be relocated to another areas of the antenna . Such relocation would of course alter the current paths and resulting resonances.

It will be appreciated that in other embodiments different shaped slots may be used to realize different current paths and that different shaped slots may result in positive or negative coupling of the respective resonances depending on their relative shapes and distances apart in terms of fractions of resonant wavelengths. The slots may be lengthened or shortened to tune the resonances to particular desired frequencies. Additional slots may be added to create additional resonances to support additional bands of operation or to tune or increase the bandwidth of the wideband response. It will also be appreciated that additional elements including parasitic patches may be added to further tune or shape the performance of the antenna .

The multi band antenna shown in includes three resonances. The first resonance is a common mode resonance set by the dimensions of the generally rectangular portion and the location of the signal feed conductor and tuned by the tuning stub . The second and third resonances are slot resonances determined by the dimensions of the slots . As noted above if the dimensions are such that the resonances are somewhat close together in frequency they merge to enable wideband communications.

In the embodiment illustrated in the shape and configuration of the slots contributes to obtaining a positive coupling between the two slot resonances that improves the wideband performance of the antenna . In some other embodiments the slots may be arranged such that they do not result in positive coupling and have more distinctive resonances.

The generally rectangular portion has the left edge and right edge that respectively define a left portion and right portion on either side of the slots and . The sizes of these portions or regions may be adjusted to tune the antenna . In particular increasing or decreasing the size of the left portion or region may tune the common mode resonance. Increasing or decreasing the size of the right portion or region may tune the common mode resonance and the slot resonances.

Reference is now made to which shows the example antenna with sample dimensions. In particular the dimensions of the slots for a particular embodiment are illustrated. The L shaped slot has a first section that extends upwards 10.3 mm and a second section that is 29.8 mm long. The first section is 1.65 mm wide and the second section is 1.18 mm wide.

The C shaped slot has a first portion 1.1 mm wide and 2.8 mm long a second portion 1.0 mm wide and 21.35 mm long a third portion 1.25 mm wide and 5.3 mm long and a fourth portion 1.1 mm wide and 10.8 mm long. As noted previously adjustments to the dimensions will impact the impedance and resonance of the slots .

The first portion of the C shaped slot is separated from the first section of the L shaped slot by 5.3 mm.

The tuning stub in this embodiment is 18.3 mm long and 3.7 mm wide. The rectangular portion is approximately 14 mm from its upper edge to its lower edge.

The dimensions for the slots given above and in connection with have been selected to realize slot resonances in the range of 1.7 GHz to 2.1 GHz band. The resulting wideband functionality of the antenna between 1710 MHz and 2170 MHz provides operability for DCS Digital Cellular Service PCS Personal Communication Service and UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System applications. The dimensions of the tuning stub and the generally rectangular portion realize common mode resonance in the 824 960 MHz band enabling cellular communications in this band such as GSM 850 GSM 900 etc. It will be understood that the dimensions shown in and the corresponding resonances are specific to a given industrial design including the curvature of the underlying dielectric and the properties of the dielectric. Variations in these features may introduce variations in the resonances and performance of the antenna .

Reference is now made to which shows a side view of one embodiment of the antenna . In this embodiment the antenna is supported by a substrate . The substrate is a dielectric material such a suitable non conducting plastic. The substrate has a curved upper surface to which the antenna is applied or upon which the antenna is formed. Accordingly the antenna in this implementation is non planar. It molds to the curvature of the substrate .

The upper surface of the substrate supporting the antenna curves downwards to a corner point and had a substantially planar bottom surface .

Reference is now made to which shows a perspective view of the underside of one embodiment of the substrate and antenna . In this embodiment it will be noted that the substrate does not feature a solid core such that the bottom surface spans the full width and length of the substrate . Instead the substrate forms a shell shape with the bottom surface running around the perimeter.

The signal feed conductor and the ground conductor are folded over the corner point so as to form tabs visible on the bottom surface . The folded tabs of these conductors enable connections with circuitry housed under the substrate for example by connection to connectors on a printed circuit board. The connection may be made by solder clips etc.

Reference is now made to and which show perspective views of an embodiment of the antenna and a substrate . shows a top perspective view shows a front perspective view and shows a bottom perspective view. The substrate includes a curved upper surface along its front face and two arms extending back from the front face.

In this embodiment it will be noted that the generally rectangular portion of the patch antenna is not perfectly rectangular. The bottom edge in particular is not straight rather it includes various cutouts partly to accommodate pins . The pins are for securing the substrate within the casing not shown of a mobile electronic device for example. Moreover the antenna is not planar since it is molded to the curved upper surface of the substrate .

As best shown in the signal feed conductor and ground conductor wrap around the front face of the substrate to the bottom surface where they are accessible for making connections to components within the mobile electronic device.

Reference is now made to which shows a portion of an example mobile electronic device in which the antenna may be used. The device includes a housing containing a number of components and having a battery compartment for housing a battery not shown . The housing is designed to matingly engage with the substrate . In particular the pins may be push fit into corresponding holes in the housing . Any other method of connecting the housing to the substrate may be used. In other embodiments the substrate may form part of the housing. In some embodiments a device casing including front and back casing plates are designed to fit over the housing and substrate . The housing includes appropriate connection points for connecting to the signal feed conductor and ground conductor .

The example shown in is one example of a mobile electronic device having a curved surface upon which the antenna may be formed. In other embodiments supporting substrate surfaces having other shapes or curves may be realized.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a perspective view of another embodiment of a multiband patch antenna . The multiband patch antenna includes a closed slot C shaped slot . It will also be noted that the C shaped slot is positioned such that the L shaped slot is nested within the C shaped slot . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the closed slot C shaped slot will result in a closed slot mode resonance different from the open slot resonance described earlier. In some instances the resonance of the closed slot is at approximately 2 the frequency of the resonance of an equivalent open slot.

Reference is now made to which shows an example S11 plot obtained for a test antenna having the approximate dimensions detailed in . It will be noted that the plot shows the common mode resonance between 824 960 MHz. It also shows the two slot resonances and which occur around 1.7 GHz and 2.0 GHz. The two slot resonances combine to provide the wideband resonance that enables wideband operation over a significant frequency range suitable for DCS PCS UMTS.

It will be appreciated that an antenna with the response profile shown in is advantageously possessed of resonance in five operating bands GSM 800 GSM 900 DCS PCS and UMTS.

Reference is now made to which shows an example embodiment of a mobile communication device which may incorporate the antenna described herein. The mobile communication device is a two way communication device having voice and possibly data communication capabilities for example the capability to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile communication device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device and a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network . The processor interacts with the communication subsystem which performs communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems. In some embodiments the device may include a touchscreen display which includes a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen with a touch sensitive input surface or overlay connected to an electronic controller . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . In other embodiments the display may not be a touchscreen display. Instead the device may simply include a non touch display and one or more input mechanisms such as for example a depressible scroll wheel.

The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone input mechanism switch short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The communication subsystem may include a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as the antenna other antennas local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the mobile communication device is intended to operate. As described above the antenna may be a multi slot multiband antenna configured for wideband operation. In one example embodiment the antenna is configured to operate in at least a first frequency range such as GSM 900 GSM 850 etc. and to operate in at least a second frequency range such as bands for DCS PCS UMTS communications like 1710 2170 MHz. By range the present application refers to the broad set of frequency bands both uplink and downlink intended to be used for wireless communications conforming to a particular standard.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of a wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after a network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP. These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in FIG. the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications may include a range of other applications including for example a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some embodiments the software applications include an email message application a push content viewing application a voice communication i.e. telephony application a map application and a media player application. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display device according to the application.

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile communication device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile communication device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile communication device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem other wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The wireless network may comprise one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some embodiments the wireless network may comprise multiple WWANs and WLANs. In some embodiments the mobile device includes the communication subsystem for WWAN communications and a separate communication subsystem for WLAN communications. In most embodiments communications with the WLAN employ a different antenna than communications with the WWAN. Accordingly the antenna may be configured for WWAN communications or WLAN communications depending on the embodiment and desired application.

In some embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

