---

title: Application programming interface for rendering personalized related content to third party applications
abstract: A system includes an ingestion component configured to receive a request from an entity for content related to a content item and a user identity. The request has a content identifier representative of the content item and a token. A request processing component of the system is configured to access a database associated with the system and identify the content item and the user identity using the content identifier and the token, wherein the database has information associating the token with the user identity and associating the content identifier with the content item. In response to identification of the content item and the user identity, the request processing component directs a recommendation engine associated with the system to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity. Information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity is then transmitted back to the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219736&OS=09219736&RS=09219736
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09219736
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application generally relates to systems and methods for using an application programming interface to provide information identifying personalized related content to third party applications.

Application programming interfaces APIs facilitate communication allowing different applications to communicate effectively with each other. It is a common practice for networked systems to expose part of their functionality or data as an API to others systems and applications via a connecting network e.g. the Internet . This allows the systems and applications to tap into functionally and data provided by the respective systems combine it with what they offer and provide improved and added functionality to their users.

The innovation is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

By way of introduction the subject matter of this disclosure relates to an application programming interface API for accessing by a third party application a content server via a network to receive information identifying content items provided by the content server that are related to a content item identified by the third party application and a user identified by the third party application. In general an API is the interface implemented by an application which allows other applications to communicate with it. An API defines a language and message format used by an application program to communicate with the operating system or some other control program such as a database management system DBMS or communications protocol. The language and messaging format of a system s API can be made available to third party applications to enable the third party applications to interface with the system and employ the various operating systems information databases and or control programs provided by the system.

The subject disclosure relates to an API that allows third party applications to interface with a content provider via a network e.g. the Internet to exploit various features and functionalities provided by the content provider. In particular the subject API defines a mechanism via which third party applications can request from the content provider information identifying and or describing content items related to a another content item and a specific user. The API is configured to receive interpret and process such requests also referred to herein as API calls and direct the content provider to generate the information using information services and applications associated with the content provider. The API can further return the generated list and or description of content items to the application or entity associated with the request.

In an aspect an API associated with a content provider receives an API call from a third party application for information identifying content items related to another content item and personalized to the preferences of a specific user. In association with the API call the API ingests an identifier for a content element e.g. a video identifier and a unique user identifier. The API processes the API call and returns to the third party application a set of content element identifiers and metadata for the associated content elements based on the content element identifier and the unique user identifier. In an aspect the unique user identifier is embodied in a token which represents the unique pairing of the third party application e.g. via a third party application identifier and the user s unique identifier.

When processing the API call the API employs a server side associated with the content provider look up table to map the token to the unique user identifier to identify the user represented by the identifier as known to the content provider. After the user is identified information related to the user can be retrieved e.g. preference information historical data regarding user interaction with the content provider demographic information etc. and employed to generated a personalized list of related content. For example a set of content items can be identified that are related to the content item represented by the content identifier. This set of content items can then be filtered to remove content items the user has previously accessed. The set of content items can further be adapted to promote content items that the users sharing similar characteristics of the user have accessed or endorsed.

In one or more aspects a system is provided that includes an ingestion component configured to receive a request from an entity for content related to a content item and a user identity. The request has a content identifier representative of the content item and a token. A request processing component of the system is configured to access a database associated with the system and identify the content item and the user identity using the content identifier and the token wherein the database has information associating the token with the user identity and information associating the content identifier with the content item. In response to identification of the content item and the user identity the request processing component directs a recommendation engine associated with the system to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity. Information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity is then transmitted back to the entity.

In another aspect a method is disclosed that includes receiving at an API associated with a system a request for content related to a content item provided by the system and a user identity the request comprising a content identifier representative of the content item and a token comprising a user identifier representative of the user identity. The method further includes accessing by the API a database associated with the system comprising information associating the token with the user identifier and information associating the content identifier with the content item identifying by the API the content item and the user identity using the information in the database. Further in response to the identifying the content item and the user identity the method includes directing by the API a recommendation engine associated with the system to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity and sending by the API a response to the request comprising information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity to an entity associated with the request.

Still in yet another aspect provided is a tangible computer readable storage medium comprising computer readable instructions that in response to execution cause a computing system to perform various operations. These operations include receiving by a system via a network a request for content related to a content item provided by the system and a user identity the request comprising a content identifier representative of the content item and a token comprising information representative of the user identity. These operations further include accessing a database associated with the system comprising information associating the token with the user identity and information associating the content identifier with the content item identifying the content item and the user identity using the information in the database in response to the identifying the content item and the user identity directing a recommendation engine associated with the system to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity and sending via the network a response to the request comprising information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity.

Referring now to the drawings with reference initially to presented is a diagram of an example system for using an API to provide by a content provider information to a third party application identifying content items provided by the content provider related to a content item and a user identified by the third party application in accordance with aspects and embodiments described herein. Aspects of systems apparatuses or processes explained in this disclosure can constitute machine executable components embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such components when executed by the one or more machines e.g. computer s computing device s virtual machine s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described.

System includes content provider including API component and server platform and a device employing an application configured to access features and information associated with server platform via a network using API component . For example content provider can include a media provider configured to store and provide streaming videos to a plurality of users. In association with streaming media services provided by content provider content provider can include server platform that provides the functionality to identify videos provided by content provider for recommending to a user for viewing based on various factors including learned or known user preferences. In an aspect content provider can allow third party applications e.g. application to exploit this video recommendation functionality of server platform using API component to request and receive a list of recommended media content based on a user identified by the application and a media item identified by the application . Content provider can include memory for storing computer executable components and instructions and processor to facilitate operation of the instructions e.g. computer executable components and instructions by content provider .

Content provider can include a variety of entities configured to provide content or content items to a user at a client device via a network e.g. the Internet and that includes functionality e.g. software and hardware to identify and filter content items provided by the content provider e.g. using various algorithms employed by the content provider based on relationships between the content items and other content items and relationships between the content items and a specific user. For example content provider can include a website or application configured to present pictures articles blogs videos or other types of content items to users and configured to identify tailored subsets of the pictures the articles the blogs the videos etc. for recommending to the respective users based in part on learned preferences of the respective users. According to this example the content provided by the website or application can be configured for downloading streaming or merely viewing at a client device via a network .

As used herein the term content item refers to any suitable data object that can be linked to and accessed or otherwise shared via a network and includes but is not limited to documents articles messages webpages programs applications and media items. In an aspect a content item includes a data object that can be identified by a URL. The term media content or media item can include but is not limited to video live video animations video advertisements music music videos sound files pictures and thumbnails. In some aspects the term media content or media item includes a collection of media items such as a playlist including several videos or songs or a channel.

A channel can be data content available from a common source or data content having a common topic or theme. A channel can be associated with a curator who can perform management actions on the channel. Management actions may include for example adding media items to the channel removing media items from the channel defining subscription requirements for the channel defining presentation attributes for channel content defining access attributes for channel content etc. The channel content can be digital content uploaded to the internet based content platform by a channel curator and or digital content selected by a channel curator from the content available on the Internet based content platform. A channel curator can be a professional content provider e.g. a professional content creator a professional content distributor a content rental service a television TV service etc. or an amateur individual. Channel content can include professional content e.g. movie clips TV clips music videos educational videos and or amateur content e.g. video blogging short original videos etc. . Users other than the curator of the channel can subscribe to one or more channels in which they are interested.

In an exemplary embodiment content provider includes a streaming media provider configured to provide streamed media to client devices e.g. client device over a network . The media can be stored in memory associated with the media provider e.g. memory and or at various servers employed by the media provider and accessed by client devices using a networked platform e.g. a website platform a cellular application employed by the media provider. For example the media provider can provide and present media content to a user via a website that can be accessed by a client device using a browser. In another example the media provider can provide and present media to a user via a mobile cellular application provided on a client device e.g. where client device is a smartphone or the like .

In association with providing content to users via a network e.g. streaming media where content provider is a media provider content provider can have access to rich information about the respective users of content provider . This rich information can be employed by content provider and more particularly server platform discussed supra to identify personalized content recommendations for the respective users. For example the users can establish accounts or profiles with the content provider and associate information related to their particular content preferences e.g. type of content genera of content length of content source of content language of content or other characteristics of the content with their respective profiles. User profiles can also provide other information about a specific user either provided by the user or learned by the content provider and associated with the user s profile or identity. For example where content provider is a streaming media provider a user s profile can provide a variety of personalized information about the user including but not limited to demographic information historical data regarding user interaction with the media provider and media provided by media provider e.g. video watch history media sharing history information indicating media endorsed or subscribed to by the user information indicating media commented on my the user information indicating media favorited by the user etc. user location information user context information and social affiliations of the user e.g. relationships between the user and other users .

Device can include any suitable computing device that includes an application configured to access information and services provided by content provider via a network using API component . For example client device can include a desktop computer a laptop computer a television an Internet television a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC or a personal digital assistant PDA . Application can include software embodied in a program module component or other type of computer readable medium configured to perform API calls as described herein configured to provide a program or task to an end user. In an aspect application is configured to provide an end user task based on a set of one or more content items identified and recommended by content provider that are personalized for the end user. For example application can be configured to present a user with a list of recommended content items related to another content item and preferences of the user. In another example application can be configured to present a user with additional information based on information identifying a set of recommend content items. Application is referred to herein as a third party application in the sense that application represents a program e.g. software that is not internal to or running at content provider . On the contrary application can be configured to interface with content provider using API component to request and receive information provided by and processed by server platform .

As used in this disclosure the terms content consumer or user refer to a person entity system or combination thereof that employs system or additional systems described in this disclosure using a client device . The one or more networks via which one or more components of system can connect can include wired and wireless networks including but not limited to a WAN e.g. the Internet or a cellular network a local area network LAN or a personal area network PAN . For example device can communicate with content provider and API component and vice versa using virtually any desired wired or wireless technology including for example cellular WAN wireless fidelity Wi Fi Wi Max WLAN and etc. In an aspect one or more components of system are configured to interact via disparate networks.

API component is configured to receive and service API calls from applications e.g. application for information provided by content provider relating to a content item and a user identity. API component provides the interface for controlling access by another application via a network to various applications systems and or information provided by content provider . In particular API component allows a third party application to communicate with content provider and exploit features and functionalities of server platform .

Server platform is configured to access a variety of information stored by content provider e.g. in memory or at another device accessible to content provider that can be used to identify filter and recommend a subset of content items provided by content provider to a user based at least in part on a learned or inferred preference of the user. Server platform can include recommendation engine to identify content items e.g. using various algorithms stored by or accessible to content provider provided by content provider for recommending to a user based on a variety of factors personalized to the user including but not limited to demographics of the user declared preferences of the user inferred preferences of the user historical data regarding user interaction with the content provider historical data regarding user interaction with content items provided by content provider information regarding user sharing of content items provided by content provider e.g. to another user device or source information regarding user commenting on content items provided by content provider and information regarding social affiliations between the user and other users. For example where content provider is a media provider recommendation engine can be configured to identify media items for recommending to a user based on age of the user gender of the user genera of media the user prefers artists the user prefers similarity of media items to a media item previously viewed or endorsed by the user similarity of media items to a media item viewed or endorsed by another user having similar interest as the user etc.

In an aspect recommendation engine can access user information database to retrieve information associating user identities with personalized information for the respective user identities that can be used by recommendation engine to identify subsets of content items provided by content provider that are personalized to the respective user identities. For example user information database can store account or profile information for users of content provider that have established accounts or profiles with content provider. The respective profile information of the various users can also be associated with historical user data regarding user activity at content provider and or with content items provided by content provider including links to content items provided by content provider at external sources. For example where content provider is a media provider respective user profiles can be associated with watch history information that includes historical data regarding respective videos the users watched when they were watched where they were watched etc.

In an aspect API component is a server side web API. When used in the context of web development an API is typically defined as a set of hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request messages along with a definition of the structure of response messages which is usually in an extensible markup language XML or JavaScript object notation JSON format. For example application can accesses API component using HTTP requests like GET or POST. API component can processes these requests and transfer data stored by content provider back and forth between application and content provider over the wire in the form of data feeds. The data feeds are simply structured lists that contain the data. Historically the primary feed format has been AtomPub XML but JSON and other formats can be employed. However it should be appreciated that API component can be configured to receive and process API calls in a variety of formats and programming languages.

API component includes ingestion component to ingest or receive API calls from an application request processing component to process API calls ingested by ingestion component and communication component to return a response to application with information requested in the API call e.g. in the form of a data feed . In an aspect ingestion component is configured to ingest API calls that request information identifying one or more content items related to another content item and a particular user. These API calls or requests are referred to herein as personalized related content requests.

API component can define information to be included in a personalized related content request sent by a third party application to API component that enables API component to process the request. In particular API component can require a personalized related content request to include at least a content identifier and a user identifier. The content identifier can identify a particular content item provided by content provider and the user identifier can identify a specific user identity e.g. where only one version of the user identity exists . For example the content identifier can identify the video entitled Man on the Run and the user identifier can identify user John Smith. The form and language of the object identifier and user identifier can vary. For example the respective identifiers can include a string of unique characters e.g. text numbers symbols etc. that uniquely identify the content time and the user identity respectively. However the respective identifiers must be known to content provider in order for API component to process the API call.

For example using the unique identifiers request processing component can employ information stored at content provider e.g. a look up table in memory that relates the respective identifiers to a known content item and a known user identity. According to this example server platform can include user information database that stores information relating user identifiers to respective user identities e.g. respective user names user profiles user accounts . In an aspect the user information database and or another data store accessible to content provider can further associate personalized user information e.g. preferences demographics watch history social relationships with the respective user identities. Server platform can also include content information database that includes information associating content item identifiers with the respective content items represented by the content identifiers. In an aspect the content information database can also associate a variety of metadata and descriptive information with the respective content items.

After identifying the content item and the user identity using the respective identifiers request processing component can direct recommendation engine to perform a query for content items related to the identified content item and user identity. For example recommendation engine can employ various algorithms e.g. stored in memory that filters content items provided by content provider to identify a subset e.g. one or more of the content items based on similarities of the respective subset of content items to the content item identified in the API call and based on unique characteristics associated with the user identity e.g. learned or inferred preferences demographics social affiliations history of interaction with content provider etc. . Recommendation engine and or request processing component can further generate a personalized related content request response that includes information identifying the subset of content items and or metadata associated with the respective content items. Communication component can further send or transmit the personalized related content request response back to the requesting application .

In an aspect the user identifier provided in a personalized related content request API call is represented in a unique token. Information identifying the token and relating the token to a specific user identity can further be stored in a data store e.g. user information database or another data store accessible to server platform . According to this aspect the request processing component can employ the token received in the API call and the information stored or accessible to server platform relating the token to the user identity to identify the user identity associated with the API call. Request processing component can then direct recommendation engine to identify content related to the content item and the user identity in response to identification of the user identity associated with the received token e.g. based on matching of the token received with the API request and the information identifying the token stored by content provider .

According to this aspect the token can represent a unique pairing between the user identity and the application or entity from which the personalized related content request was received. Thus the token cannot be shared or employed by another entity or application to perform the same personalized related content request e.g. wherein same refers to same as a function of the type of request and the content item and user identity associated with the request . For example the token can also include or represent an application identifier that identifies the application or entity from which a request was received. In an aspect request processing component is configured to direct recommendation engine to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity in response to a determination based on the application entity identifier that the application entity has been authorized to receive the information. This authorization information can be associated with the information identifying the token stored at content provider or disassociated with the information identifying the token.

In addition to an application entity identifier request processing component can also require proof of a secret key with a received API call. This can ensure that the application entity identifier associated with the API call is not being fraudulently employed by another entity. According to this aspect request processing component can be configured to direct recommendation engine to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity associated with the API call in response to a determination that the entity has been authorized to receive the information based on verification of the secret key by the content provider . This security can ensure restricted access of various third party applications to the subject API component functionality and to protect against denial of service or distributed denial of service DDOS attacks.

In another aspect the token provided in a personalized related content request received by ingestion component can include session information associating the token with a session between the application entity from which the request was received and content provider that has been authorized by the user identity. Thus the same token cannot be employed by another session between the application entity and the content provider. According to this aspect the request processing component can be configured to direct recommendation engine to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity in response to a determination based on the entity identifier and session information represented by and or included in the token that the entity has been authorized to receive the information.

Content items identified by a content item identifier in association with a personalized related content API request can vary based on the content provider. For example the content item could include a picture an article a merchandise item or a video. In an aspect where the content provider is a media provider the content identifier can include an identifier for a video a channel or a playlist. According to this aspect a personalized related content API request would include a video identifier a channel identifier or a playlist identifier respectively and a unique user identifier. For example where API component receives a video identifier and a user identifier API component can return information identifying videos that are related to the video identifier and that account for characteristics e.g. preferences watch history etc. of the user represented by the user identifier. In another example where API component receives a channel identifier and a user identifier API component can return information identifying videos that are provided on the channel represented by the channel identifier and that account for characteristics e.g. preferences watch history etc. of the user represented by the user identifier. In yet another example where API component receives a playlist identifier and a user identifier API component can return information identifying videos that included in the playlist represented by the playlist identifier and that account for characteristics e.g. preferences watch history etc. of the user represented by the user identifier.

In an aspect request processing component can direct recommendation engine to identity content items related to a content item identified in a personalized related content request that are of the same type as the content item identified in the personalized related content request. For example if the content item identified in a personalized related content request is a picture request processing component can direct recommendation engine to identify other pictures related to the picture. However in another aspect request processing component can direct recommendation engine to identity content items related to a content item identified in a personalized related content request that are of various types. For example if the content item identified in a personal related content request is a video request processing component can direct recommendation engine to identify related videos related playlists and or related channels.

In an aspect in addition to a content item identifier and a unique user identifier a personalized related API call request can include information defining other parameters for which to filter the requested related content. For example the API call can request that information related to a content item and user identity be ranked based on popularity of the respective content items. According to this example the API call can include a ranking parameter and a factor for which to base the ranking. In another example the API call can request a specified number of content items to be identified in response to the request. For example the API call can request the top X where X is a number content items most related to the content item identifier and user identifier.

Recommendation engine can employ various algorithms and techniques to filter content items provided by content provider based on relations of the content items to another content item and user identity identified in a personalized related content request. In an aspect recommendation engine can employ recommendation methods based on user bucketing. For example recommendation engine can first identify a set of content items provided by content provider that are related to a content item identified in an API request. One mechanism for identifying this set of content items can include identifying other users that also have accessed or viewed the content item identified in the request. Recommendation engine can then examine histories of these other users to identify a set of the content items that tend to be most commonly accessed and or viewed by the respective users. The set of content items can further be normalized or ranked to account for respective popularity of the identified content items.

In an aspect when personalizing this set of content item for the user identified in the API request recommendation engine can further examine the viewing history of the user and identify a group of other users with similar viewing histories. Recommendation engine can compare the similar viewing histories of the respective users and identify a subset of content items that are most viewed and or most commonly viewed by the respective users having similar viewing histories. This subset of content items can then be normalized to remove content items the user has already viewed. The subset of content items can also be ranked or ordered as a function of absolute with respect to a large heterogeneous sample population or relative with respect to a grouped subset of the large heterogeneous sample population popularity of the respective content items.

Process begins with the third party application formatting a personalized related content PRC API request at . For example the request can be formatted as an HTTP request message with information indicating a content item e.g. content ID and a user identity for which to base a query for related content items. The user identity can be embodied in a token having information representing an association of a unique user identifier and an identifier for the third party application. At the third party application sends the PRC API request to API component . At the API component receives the PRC API request. The API component can further analyze the request to determine whether the request is formatted properly for processing by API component . For example the API component can determine whether the request includes a content ID and a token. Based in part on the presence of the content ID and the token the API component can interpret the request as a PRC request. At the API component can look up the token in a data store associated with the content server platform . For example the API component can find the token in the data store. The token in the data store can further be associated with information identifying a user identity and an identification of the third party application. Thus at using the received token API component can determine the identity of a user associated with the PRC request. API component can also identify the content item associated with the PRC request based on the content ID.

At in response to identification of the user identity using the received token and the content item API component can direct a recommendation engine at the server platform to run a query for content items related to the identified content item and user identity associated with the PRC API request. At the server platform can run the query and identify a subset of content items for recommending based on a relationship between the subset of content items and the content item and a relationship between the subset of the content items and the user identity e.g. as determined or inferred using one or more algorithms employed by the recommendation engine . At the recommendation engine of the server platform can return the query results to the API component . At the API component can generate a PRC API request response based on the query results. For example the API component can generate a data feed e.g. in XML or JSON with information identifying the content items included in the query results. At the API component can send the PRC API request response back to the third party application .

Security component is configured to ensure that a user has authorized a third party application to access personal information associated with that user held at content provider. In addition security component is configured to manage access of server platform and information associated with content provider by a third party application . In an aspect security component can implement an application and user verification authorization process prior to allowing API component to receive and process a personalized related content request from application on behalf of a user. In accordance with the application and user verification authorization process security component can receive an access request from the application to access user information provided by the system related to a user identity. In response to the access request security component can request the third party application provide authorization information associated with the user identity e.g. username and password and information identifying the third party application e.g. and application identifier ID .

Upon receipt of the user authorization information and application and application ID security component can verify the user and generate a token for the application that can be employed by the application to issue a personalized related content request on behalf of the user. In an aspect the token can include a unique string of characters e.g. letters numbers and symbols that represents the unique pairing between the application and the verified and authorized user. The token can also represent information that defines access parameters of the third party application e.g. with respect to session time what information the application is granted access to etc. . Thus in an aspect the token can only be employed by the application in accordance with the access parameters represented by the token. For example another third party application cannot use the token to issue a personalized related content request on behalf of the user. In another example the third party application can only use the token for the authorized session represented by the token between the application and the content provider .

Security component is configured to associate the token in memory e.g. memory accessible to API component and with the information represented by the token e.g. user ID application ID application access parameters etc. . Security component further provides the token to the third party application for use in connection with a personalized related content request on behalf of the user. For example when sending a personalized related content request to API component third party application can include the token and a content item ID in the request. Upon receipt of the request API component can look up the token in memory e.g. memory where the token is stored and associated with a user ID an application ID and or access parameters for the application. Where the token is a match and where the access parameters associated with the token allow API component to process the request e.g. a session represented by the token has not expired API component can identify the user identity associated with the user ID and instruct recommendation engine to perform a recommendation query based on the user identity and the content item represented by the content ID.

Process begins with at a third party application sending a request to API component to perform a personalized related content PRC API request on behalf of a user. The request can include information identifying the user. At API component receives the request and relays the request to the server platform . At and the server platform and the third party application perform a user verification and authorization process. For example the server platform can request the third party application provide as received from the user verification and authorization information e.g. username and password for the user identity. Upon receipt of the verification an authorization information and verification and authorization of the user identity server platform can generate an access token and associate the access token in memory. The access token can be associated with information pairing the user identity and the application identity. In another example where the user has previously authorized the third party to access personal information provided at the server platform server platform can determine that the third party application is authorized based on previously stored authorization information for the application and the user identity. The server platform can then issue a new access token for the third party application. At the server platform can send the access token to the API component and at the API component can relay the access token to the third party application .

A the third party application formats a PRC API request that includes the access token and a content item ID. At the third party application sends the PRC API request to API component . At the API component receives the PRC API request. The API component can further analyze the request to determine whether the request is formatted properly for processing by API component . For example the API component can determine whether the request includes a content ID and a token. In an aspect based in part on the presence of the content ID and the token the API component can interpret the request as a PRC request. At the API component can look up the token in the memory associated with the content server platform . For example the API component can find the token in the memory where it is associated with the information identifying the user identity and an identification of the third party application. Thus at using the received token API component can determine the identity of a user associated with the PRC request. API component can also identify the content item associated with the PRC request based on the content ID.

At in response to identification of the user identity using the received token and the content item API component can direct a recommendation engine at the server platform to run a query for content items related to the identified content item and user identity associated with the PRC API request. At the server platform can run the query and identify a subset of content items for recommending based on a relationship between the subset of content items and the content item and a relationship between the subset of the content items and the user identity e.g. as determined or inferred using one or more algorithms employed by the recommendation engine . At the recommendation engine of the server platform can return the query results to the API component . At the API component can generate a PRC API request response based on the query results. For example the API component can generate a data feed e.g. in XML or JSON with information identifying the content items included in the query results. At the API component can send the PRC API request response back to the third party application .

In view of the example systems and or devices described herein example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be further appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example a method disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with the subject specification. It should be further appreciated that the methods disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At in response to the identifying the content item and the user identity a recommendation engine associated with the system is directed e.g. by request processing component to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity. For example where the content item identified in the request is a video the recommendation engine can identify other videos related to the video and the user and or other channels or playlists having content related to the video and the user. For example the recommendation engine can identify a set of media items related to the content item using various screening techniques e.g. by identifying other media items accessed or endorsed by other users that accessed the video by identifying other media items having related content to the video by identifying other videos sharing similar features associated with the video by identifying other videos associated with a similar genera of the video etc. .

The recommendation engine can further filter this set of media items based on criteria associated with the user identity e.g. user watch history user preferences user demographics user social affiliations etc. . For example the recommendation can identify other users sharing similar preferences as the user and identify media items included in the set which the other users have accessed or endorsed. In another example the recommendation engine can identify videos included in the set which are associated with channels artists or genres the user tends to prefer e.g. based on user profile information and or user watch history . At a response to the request having information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity is sent back to the requesting entity e.g. using communication component .

At another request is received by a system e.g. via API component for content related to a content item provided by the system and the user identity. The request includes at least a content identifier representative of the content item and the token. At the database is accessed and the content item and the user identity are identified using the token and the information in the database. At in response to the identifying the content item and the user identity a recommendation engine associated with the system is directed e.g. by request processing component to identify the content related to the content item and the user identity. At a response to the request having information identifying the content related to the content item and the user identity is sent back to the requesting entity e.g. using communication component .

The systems and processes described below can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not all of which may be explicitly illustrated in this disclosure.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available suitable processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of suitable bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 884 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory . In addition according to present innovations codec may include at least one of an encoder or decoder wherein the at least one of an encoder or decoder may consist of hardware a combination of hardware and software or software. Although codec is depicted as a separate component codec may be contained within non volatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic not shown in and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM.

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage medium. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 70 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage medium separately or in combination with other storage medium including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with this disclosure. The system includes one or more client s e.g. laptops smart phones PDAs media players computers portable electronic devices tablets and the like . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware or hardware in combination with software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing aspects of this disclosure for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet transmitted between two or more computer processes wherein the data packet may include video data. The data packet can include a metadata e.g. associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet or mobile network s that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s include or are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively include or are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In one embodiment a client can transfer an encoded file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter to server . Server can store the file decode the file or transmit the file to another client . It is to be appreciated that a client can also transfer uncompressed file to a server and server can compress the file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. Likewise server can encode video information and transmit the information via communication framework to one or more clients .

The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Moreover it is to be appreciated that various components described in this description can include electrical circuit s that can include components and circuitry elements of suitable value in order to implement the embodiments of the subject innovation s . Furthermore it can be appreciated that many of the various components can be implemented on one or more integrated circuit IC chips. For example in one embodiment a set of components can be implemented in a single IC chip. In other embodiments one or more of respective components are fabricated or implemented on separate IC chips.

What has been described above includes examples of the embodiments of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but it is to be appreciated that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described in this disclosure for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the disclosure illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

The aforementioned systems circuits modules have been described with respect to interaction between several components blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems circuits and components blocks can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware e.g. a circuit a combination of hardware and software software or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor e.g. digital signal processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function software stored on a computer readable storage medium software transmitted on a computer readable transmission medium or a combination thereof.

Moreover the words example or exemplary are used in this disclosure to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used in this description differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal that can be transitory such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described in this disclosure. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with certain aspects of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methodologies disclosed in this disclosure are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used in this disclosure is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from a computer readable device or storage media.

