---

title: Scheduling and hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) timing indication for an uplink-downlink (UL-DL) reconfiguration
abstract: Technology for reconfiguring an uplink-downlink (UL-DL) time-division duplexing (TDD) configuration timing is disclosed. In an example, a user equipment (UE) for reconfiguring an uplink-downlink (UL-DL) time-division duplexing (TDD) configuration timing can have computer circuitry configured to: Decode a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) for downlink control information (DCI) including a timing indication field (TIF); and reconfigure a channel timing for a semi-static UL-DL TDD configuration using the TIF. The channel timing can include a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) timing, a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling timing, or a PUSCH HARQ timing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014064&OS=09014064&RS=09014064
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09014064
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130115
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 646 223 filed May 11 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Homogeneous networks or HetNets can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD for DL or UL transmissions. Time division duplexing TDD is an application of time division multiplexing TDM to separate downlink and uplink signals. In TDD downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals such as a downlink or uplink are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub channels in one communication channel but are physically transmitted on different resources. In frequency division duplexing FDD an uplink transmission and a downlink transmission can operate using different frequency carriers. In FDD interference can be avoided because the downlink signals use a different frequency carrier from the uplink signals.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Time division duplex TDD can offer flexible deployments without using a pair of spectrum resources. For TDD deployments interference between uplink UL and downlink DL transmission including both base station to base station BS to BS interference and UE to UE interference can be considered when different uplink downlink UL DL configurations are used among cells in a network.

Allowing adaptive UL DL configurations depending on traffic conditions in different cells can significantly improve the system performance in some examples. illustrates an example where different UL DL configurations can be considered in different cells. Networks e.g. HetNets or homogeneous networks can involve a same carrier or different carriers deployed by a single operator or different operators in the same band and employing either a same or different uplink downlink UL DL configurations. Different UL DL configurations can be used in different cells of the network e.g. HetNet and different carriers deployed by different operators in the same band can be used employing either the same or different uplink downlink configurations. Interference may include adjacent channel interference when different carrier frequencies are used as well as co channel interference when a same carrier frequency is used such as remote node to node interference or BS to BS interference or eNB to eNB interference .

Various radio access technologies RAT such as legacy LTE TDD Release 8 9 or 10 and advance LTE TDD Release 11 can support asymmetric UL DL allocations by providing seven different semi statically configured uplink downlink configurations i.e. legacy UL DL TDD configurations . A legacy UL DL TDD configurations can refer to a UL DL TDD configurations as described in LTE TDD Release 8 9 or 10. Table 1 illustrates seven UL DL configurations used in LTE where D represents a downlink subframe S represents a special subframe and U represents an uplink subframe. In an example the special subframe can operate or be treated as a downlink subframe.

As illustrated by Table 1 UL DL configuration 0 can include 6 uplink subframes in subframes 2 3 4 7 8 and 9 and 4 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0 1 5 and 6 and UL DL configuration 5 can include one uplink subframe in subframe 2 and 9 downlink and special subframes in subframes 0 1 3 9.

The legacy LTE UL DL TDD set of configurations can provide DL subframes allocations in the range of 40 to 90 and UL subframes allocations in the range of 10 to 60 as shown in Table 1. A semi static allocation at any given time may not match the instantaneous traffic situation. A mechanism for adapting UL DL allocation can be based on the system information change procedure where the UL and DL subframes allocation within a radio frame can be reconfigured through system information broadcast signaling e.g. a system information block SIB . Hence the UL DL allocation once configured can be expected to vary semi statically. With a mechanism based on the SIB a minimum latency of approximately 640 milliseconds ms can be used for the reconfiguration.

Additional mechanisms can be used to support dynamic allocation of UL and DL subframes with a lower latency e.g. 10 ms such as Flexible Subframes FlexSF as shown in . A flexible subframe is capable of changing an uplink downlink transmission direction for a set of legacy UL DL TDD configurations. For example subframes with a subframe index 3 4 7 8 and 9 can vary between UL or DL subframes in the seven different semi statically configured legacy LTE UL DL TDD configurations. Subframes 0 1 2 5 and 6 can be referred to as fixed subframes since the transmission direction can be fixed as primarily an UL subframe e.g. subframe 2 or a DL subframe e.g. DL subframes 0 and 5 special subframe 1 or DL or special subframe 6 for the seven different semi statically configured legacy LTE UL DL TDD configurations.

Advanced UEs supporting UL DL TDD reconfiguration can by default assume the FlexSF is a DL subframe and can attempt to decode physical downlink control channels PDCCH in FlexSFs unless explicitly instructed by the node e.g. eNB for a UL transmission. The FlexSFs can be transparent to legacy UEs using LTE TDD Release 8 9 or 10 and the UL or DL configuration of the FlexSFs can be changed semi statically for legacy UEs through system information block type 1 SIB1 information bits. The node can be responsible to properly schedule the data transmission of legacy UEs to ensure that the corresponding physical uplink shared channel PUSCH and hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK resources of the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH and the PUSCH still are valid even when the TDD configuration is changed for advanced UE supporting FlexSFs.

A downlink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Downlink Shared CHannel PDSCH or control information on a Physical Downlink Control CHannel PDCCH . A PDCCH can carry a message known as Downlink Control Information DCI which can includes transmission resource assignments such as a PUSCH and other control information for a UE or group of UEs. Many PDCCHs can be transmitted in a subframe. An uplink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH or control information on a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH . Automatic Repeat reQuest is a feedback mechanism whereby a receiving terminal requests retransmission of packets which are detected to be erroneous. Hybrid ARQ is a simultaneous combination of Automatic Retransmission reQuest ARQ and forward error correction FEC which can enables the overhead of error correction to be adapted dynamically depending on the channel quality. When HARQ is used and if the errors can be corrected by FEC then no retransmission may be requested otherwise if the errors can be detected but not corrected a retransmission can be requested. An ACKnowledgment ACK signal can be transmitted to indicate that one or more blocks of data such as in a PDSCH have been successfully received and decoded. HARQ ACK Negative ACKnowledgment NACK or NAK information can include feedback from a receiver to the transmitter in order to acknowledge a correct reception of a packet or ask for a new retransmission via NACK or NAK . A PDSCH HARQ can be transmitted in an uplink subframe after a PDSCH in a downlink subframe and a PUSCH HARQ can be transmitted in a downlink subframe after a PUSCH in an uplink subframe.

In legacy LTE each of the seven semi statically configured UL DL TDD configurations can have PDSCH HARQ timings corresponding to UL subframes and PUSCH scheduling timings and PUSCH HARQ timings corresponding to DL subframes. For example Table 2 illustrates the PDSCH HARQ timing for seven UL DL configurations used in LTE as illustrated in . A PDSCH transmission can be indicated by the detection of corresponding PDCCH or a PDCCH indicating downlink SPS release within subframe s n k where k K and K defined in Table 2 also shown in Table 10.1.3.1 1 3GPP technical specification TS 36.213V11.0.0 2012 09 is a set of M elements k k . . . k depending on the subframe n. For instance an uplink subframe n in Table 2 can be used to transmit PDSCH HARQ ACK s for PDSCH in subframe s n k.

For example in TDD configuration 1 indicated by the SIB1 a UL subframe 2 can provide a PDSCH HARQ ACK for DL subframes 5 and 6 of a prior radio frame a UL subframe 3 can provide a PDSCH HARQ ACK for DL subframe 9 of the prior frame UL subframe 7 can provide a PDSCH HARQ ACK for DL subframes 0 and 1 of the prior frame and UL subframe 8 can provide a PDSCH HARQ ACK for DL subframe 4 of the prior frame. In an example at least four subframes may occur between a downlink subframe and an uplink subframe to allow for transmission decoding and processing of the downlink transmission PDCCH and or uplink transmission.

Table 3 illustrates the PUSCH scheduling timing for seven UL DL configurations used in LTE. For UL reference UL DL configurations belonging to 1 2 3 4 5 6 and a normal HARQ operation the UE can upon detection of a PDCCH or enhanced physical downlink control channels EPDCCH or ePDCCH with an uplink DCI format and or a physical hybrid automatic repeat request ARQ indicator channel PHICH transmission in subframe n intended for the UE adjust a corresponding PUSCH transmission in subframe n k with k given in Table 3 also shown in Table 8 2 3GPP technical specification TS 36.213 V11.0.0 2012 09 according to the PDCCH EPDCCH information and the PHICH information. Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator CHannel PHICH is a downlink physical channel which carries the HARQ ACK NACK information indicating whether the node has correctly received a transmission on the PUSCH. For UL reference UL DL configuration 0 and normal HARQ operation a least significant bit LSB of the UL index in the DCI format 0 4 can be set to 1 in subframe n or a PHICH can be received in subframe n 0 or 5 in the resource corresponding to I 1 or PHICH can be received in subframe n 1 or 6 the UE can adjust the corresponding PUSCH transmission in subframe n 7.

For example in TDD configuration 1 indicated by the SIB1 a DL subframe 1 can schedule a PUSCH in a UL subframe 7 a DL subframe 4 can schedule a PUSCH in a UL subframe 8 a DL subframe 6 can schedule a PUSCH in a UL subframe 2 of a subsequent radio frame and a DL subframe 9 can schedule a PUSCH in UL subframe 3 of a subsequent frame. In an example at least four subframes may occur between a downlink subframe and an uplink subframe to allow for transmission decoding and processing of the downlink transmission PDCCH and or uplink transmission.

Table 4 illustrates the PUSCH HARQ timing for seven UL DL configurations used in LTE. For PUSCH transmissions scheduled from serving cell c in subframe n a UE can determine the corresponding PHICH resource of a serving cell c in subframe n k where kis given in Table 4 also shown in Table 9.1.2 1 3GPP technical specification TS 36.213 V11.0.0 2012 09 .

For example in TDD configuration 0 indicated by the SIB1 a PUSCH HARQ ACK for a UL subframe 2 can be transmitted in a DL subframe 6 a PUSCH HARQ ACK for a UL subframe 3 can be transmitted in a DL subframe 9 a PUSCH HARQ ACK for a UL subframe 7 can be transmitted in a DL subframe 1 of a subsequent radio frame and a PUSCH HARQ ACK for a UL subframe 8 can be transmitted in a DL subframe 4 of a subsequent frame. In an example at least four subframes may occur between an uplink subframe and a downlink subframe to allow for decoding and processing of the downlink transmission uplink transmission and or PHICH.

A change in the dynamically configured transmission direction of FlexSFs can change the PDSCH HARQ timings corresponding to UL subframes and PUSCH scheduling timings and PUSCH HARQ timings corresponding to DL subframes. When the dynamically configured transmission direction of FlexSFs are different with a default configuration as indicated by SIB1 the FlexSFs may not be used and or scheduled for legacy UEs. Advanced UEs may enable the node to dynamically configure the FlexSFs to match the UL DL configuration with the instantaneous traffic situation effectively. The FlexSFs with a dynamically configured transmission direction can be efficiently utilized by advanced UEs while maintaining a proper HARQ ACK feedback with a predefined HARQ timeline linked and or corresponding to the configured UL DL configurations. Some dynamic configurations can have backward compatibility to ensure measurement accuracy of legacy UEs.

For an advance TD LTE system a UL DL reconfiguration indication mechanism e.g. timing indication field TIF can be used to inform advanced UEs of a latest transmission direction of FlexSFs in a timely manner while minimizing control overhead which can satisfy an instantaneous traffic situation and maintain a backward compatibility with legacy UEs. Various alternatives for UL DL reconfiguration and associated PDSCH scheduling and or HARQ timing indications can be used while still providing backward compatibility with legacy UEs.

At least two alternatives can be used to indicate UL DL TDD reconfigurations which can enable a fully flexible UL DL ratio reconfiguration within predefined UL DL configurations while avoiding and or reducing impacts on legacy UEs. The at least two alternatives may be classified based on a content of signaling involved. For example the alternatives can used a HARQ and or scheduling timing indication or a predefined subframe order to support transmissible direction changing both in the DL and the UL.

In a configuration i.e. option 1 three sparse bits of an existing ten sparse bits reserved in the master information block MIB radio resource control RRC signaling can be used to explicitly indicate the latest UL DL configuration.

In another configuration i.e. option 2 a downlink control field referred to as Timing Indication Field TIF can be added to an existing downlink control information DCI format to indicate a scheduling and or HARQ timing directly as shown in . The TIF field can be of a fixed length and may be conditionally padded to a legacy DCI in a UE specific search space USS and the DCI may not be located in a common search space CSS to avoid or reduce backward compatibility issues.

Option 2 allows each UL DL configuration to be associated with a particular set of scheduling and or HARQ timing relationships. The TIF can be sufficient to directly indicate to the UE a predefined scheduling and or HARQ timing corresponding to each UL DL configuration in set of UL DL configurations e.g. legacy LTE UL DL TDD configurations using modified DCI formats as shown in instead of explicitly signaling of a latest UL DL configuration. Using option 2 the TIF may not indicate the UL DL configuration so the latest UL DL configuration can still be unknown to the UE. Because the TIF used in option 2 is based on layer 1 physical or PHY layer signaling small reconfiguration timescales such as 10 ms latencies can be supported with an increase in the additional downlink control overhead as shown in .

Option 2 can be implemented using at least two different sizes of the TIF corresponding to different signaling overhead. For example the TIF can use 3 bits i.e. option 2 alternative 1 or 1 bit i.e. option 2 alternative 2 .

For the 3 bit TIF case a direct one to one mapping between TIF states and the predefined UL DL configuration such as the seven legacy TDD UL DL configurations can be used. DL control overhead with 3 bit may be significant so some TIF field compression such as using the 1 bit TIF can reduce control overhead and can improve the signaling efficiency for the dynamic reconfiguration. A timing indication method can be used with the 3 bit TIF or the 1 bit TIF padding and still support very fast e.g. 10 ms timescale TDD UL DL reconfigurations. For illustration alternative 2 is described but the same principles can be applied to a greater number of bits used for the TIF.

For alternative 2 two scheduling and or HARQ timing relationships e.g. timing candidates can be predefined corresponding to each SIB1 TDD configuration. The 1 bit TIF can indicate the scheduling and or HARQ timing selected by the node between the two timing candidates as shown in Table 5. Table 5 illustrates a usage of a 1 bit TIF.

Both of the two scheduling and or HARQ timings can be selected from existing predefined timing relationships in a legacy system which can reduce an implementation and or specification complexity. The two scheduling and or HARQ timings relationships can be predefined at both the node e.g. eNB and the wireless device e.g. UE such as in a table or mapping.

The following provides additional details of the examples including detailed descriptions on alternative 2 corresponding to the seven legacy UL DL configurations. Because the flexible subframes FlexSF can switch between UL and DL transmissions from frame to frame the UE can attempt to decode PDCCH for the DCI on flexible subframes such as subframe 3 4 7 8 and 9 as illustrated in unless the UE is explicitly instructed by the node to transmit in uplink for PUCCH or PUSCH.

First the predefined PDSCH HARQ timing relationships for the dynamic reconfiguration is described where the PDSCH HARQ is transmitted on uplink subframes. Then the predefined PUSCH scheduling and PUSCH HARQ timing relationships for dynamic reconfiguration is described where the PUSCH scheduling and PUSCH HARQ are transmitted on downlink subframes.

For the PDSCH HARQ timing case e.g. PDSCH HARQ timing indication the PDSCH HARQ timing can vary on whether the DL ratio is increasing or decreasing with the new reconfiguration. Both cases of an increasing number of DL subframes or decreasing number of DL subframes in the radio frame relative to the TDD configuration in SIB1 is described. The DL ratio is the number of subframes in the radio frame configured for DL transmissions relative to the total number of subframes of the radio frame. For the seven legacy UL DL configurations the DL ratio can range from 40 e.g. LTE TDD configuration 0 to 90 e.g. LTE TDD configuration 5 . Similarly an UL ratio is the number of subframes in the radio frame configured for UL transmissions relative to the total number of subframes of the radio frame. For the seven legacy UL DL configurations the UL ratio can range from 10 e.g. LTE TDD configuration 5 to 60 e.g. LTE TDD configuration 0 .

For the case when the DL ratio decreases with reconfiguration no UL ACK NACK A N transmission may be used for the PDSCH HARQ at the FlexSF which can support backward compatibility. But if the DL subframe ratio increases another HARQ timing which is different from the timing used for the TDD configuration in SIB1 can be signaled via the TIF as shown in . illustrates a flexible subframe n reconfigured from a UL subframe to a downlink subframe. When the flexible subframe n used to transmit a PDSCH HARQ for downlink subframe n k for the TDD configuration in SIB1 is reconfigured from the UL subframe to a downlink subframe flexible subframe n may no longer be available for a PDSCH A N transmission for downlink subframe n k. So another available uplink subframe can be used to transmit the A N for the PDSCH which can have a second predefined HARQ timing relationship e.g. timing 1 indicated by TIF 1. TIF 0 can be used to indicate a first predefined HARQ timing relationship e.g. timing 2 based on the TDD configuration on SIB1. The TIF value can be carried in a DCI format for a PDSCH grant.

In an example Table 6 as illustrated in summarizes UL HARQ timings corresponding to PDSCH within subframe s n k where k K and K is a set of M elements k k . . . k by incorporating two distinct HARQ timing for each DL subframe for a LTE TDD configuration 1. For example when the DL ratio decreases subframe n is still available for the UL HARQ for PDSCH of subframe n k thus the UE can use the existing legacy PDSCH HARQ timing relationship indicated by TIF 0 e.g. TIF null . When the DL ratio increases subframe n may not be available for the UL HARQ for PDSCH of subframe n k thus the UE can use a second PDSCH HARQ timing relationship indicated by TIF 1. For instance when the TIF value for subframes 4 9 and 8 equal 1 and the TIF value for subframes 0 1 3 5 6 equals zero indicating a reconfiguration from a 60 DL ratio to a 80 DL ratio subframe 2 can provide the UL HARQ for subframes 5 6 4 8 of the previous frame and subframe 9 from two frames earlier corresponding to k 7 6 8 13 4 and subframe 7 can provide the UL HARQ for subframes 0 1 and 3 of the same frame corresponding to k 7 6 4. When the TIF value for the DL subframes and FlexSFs equal 0 e.g. subframes 0 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 and 9 indicating no reconfiguration e.g. maintain a 60 DL ratio the subframe 2 can provide the UL HARQ for subframes 5 and 6 of the previous frame corresponding to k 7 6 the subframe 3 can provide the UL HARQ for subframe 9 of the previous frame corresponding to k 4 the subframe 7 can provide the UL HARQ for subframes 0 and 1 of the same frame corresponding to k 7 6 and the subframe 8 can provide the UL HARQ for subframe 4 of the same frame corresponding to k 4. The underlining and bolding of the k values and the TIF 1 values can indicate a change in configuration from the next increment of the DL ratio.

In the x over the subframe carrying the PDSCH indicates the UL HARQ timing corresponding to PDSCH is eliminated by a reconfigured from a UL subframe to a DL subframe. For instance with an 80 DL ratio reconfiguration e.g. DL ratio changing from 70 to 80 subframes 9 and 8 carrying the PDSCH can no longer transmit the A N on subframe 3 i.e. a UL subframe converted to DL subframe . Instead subframe 9 transmits the A N on subframe 2 on a radio frame after a next radio frame i.e. an available UL subframe at least 4 subframes from the subframe 9 which is indicated by TIF 1 in subframe 9 and subframe 8 transmits the A N on subframe 3 of a next radio frame i.e. an available UL subframe at least 4 subframes from the subframe 8 which is indicated by TIF 1 in subframe 8. For subframe 9 TIF 0 represents k 4 in subframe 3 or TIF 1 represents k 13 in subframe 2 which can be represented as 9 4 13 for a value n k k for the DL subframe n. For subframe 9 TIF 0 can share a similar timing relationship with legacy UL DL configurations 1 and 4. For subframe 8 TIF 0 represents k 5 in subframe 3 or TIF 1 represents k 4 in subframe 2 which can be represented as 8 5 4 for a value n k k for the DL subframe n. For subframe 8 TIF 0 can share a similar timing relationship with legacy UL DL configurations 3 and 4. Subframe 4 transmits the A N on subframe 2 of next radio frame i.e. an available UL subframe at least 4 subframes from the subframe 4 which is indicated by TIF 1 in subframe 4 for DL ratio changing from 60 to 70 or greater. For subframe 4 TIF 0 represents k 4 in subframe 8 or TIF 1 represents k 8 in subframe 2 which can be represented as 4 4 8 for a value n k k for the DL subframe n. For subframe 4 TIF 0 can share a similar timing relationship with legacy UL DL configuration 1. The TIF value k value relationship e.g. TIF 0 or TIF 1 for each subframe can vary based on the SIB1 UL DL configuration.

When a SIB1 UL DL configuration is configuration 1 without dynamic reconfiguration e.g. DL ratio of 60 the UE may not detect the PDCCH on subframe 3 i.e. configured as a UL subframe . For a SIB1 UL DL configuration 1 with a 80 or higher DL ratio dynamic reconfiguration subframe 3 can be configured as a DL subframe and the UE can detect a DL grant on subframe 3 i.e. UE can attempt to decode the PDCCH of each flexible subframe unless the FlexSF is explicitly signaled to transmit in a UL . The PDSCH HARQ ACK timing relationship for subframe 3 can be determined by a detected TIF value. If the TIF 0 HARQ ACK for PDSCH in subframe 3 can be sent as feedback in the subframe 7 of the same radio frame e.g. k 4 in subframe 7 and if TIF 1 HARQ ACK for PDSCH in subframe 3 can be sent as feedback in subframe 2 of the next radio frame e.g. k 9 in subframe 2 which can be represented as 3 4 9 for a value n k k for the DL subframe n. With a 80 DL radio and the UL subframe 3 changed to a DL subframe the TIF value in subframe 3 can be set as TIF 0 to inform the UE to feedback the HARQ ACK on subframe 7.

Referring back to subframes 8 and 9 in the 80 DL ratio example the HARQ ACK for subframe 8 and 9 are transmitted on subframe 3 for DL ratios less than 80 . When subframe 3 changes to a DL subframe in case of an 80 DL ratio of subframes in the radio frame subframe 3 may not conveyed the HARQ ACK so the node can inform the UE to feedback the HARQ ACK on a different subframe s . The node can set the TIF value of the DCI on the two subframes i.e. subframes 8 and 9 as TIF 1. So the TIF 1 subframes in include subframes 4 8 9 in the case of DL ratio changed to 80 .

The reconfiguration of flexible subframes from a UL subframe to a downlink subframe can also change the PUSCH scheduling and PUSCH HARQ timing relationships. Similar to the PDSCH HARQ timing indication method describe above the PUSCH scheduling and or the PUSCH HARQ timing indication can vary whether the UL ratio is increasing or decreasing with the new reconfiguration. For the case when the UL ratio decreases with reconfiguration no DL A N corresponding to a PUSCH transmission may be used for the PUSCH scheduling and or PUSCH HARQ at FlexSF which can support backward compatibility. But if the UL subframe ratio increases another PUSCH scheduling timing which is different from the timing used for the TDD configuration in SIB1 or another PUSCH HARQ timing which is different from the timing used for the TDD configuration in SIB can be signaled via the TIF.

In an example Table 7 as illustrated in summarizes PUSCH scheduling by a PDCCH in subframe n for a PUSCH in subframe n k where k represent the numbers in Table 7. Table 8 as illustrated in summarizes PUSCH HARQ timing by a PDCCH in subframe n for a PHICH in n k where krepresent the numbers in Table 8. In an example a 2 bit downlink assignment index DAI in a UL grant can be consistently interpreted similar to a legacy configuration 0. The DAI is a field in the downlink resource grant signaled to a UE indicating how many subframes in a previous time window have contained transmissions to that UE. DAI can be applicable only when LTE is operated in TDD mode and can enable the UE to determine whether the UE has received all the downlink transport blocks for which the UE transmits a combined ACK NACK. For instance the TDD configuration 1 with a dynamic 80 90 DL ratio can use a 2 bit DAI to indicate subframes 3 and 8.

The following provides an example of PUSCH scheduling for the TDD configuration 1 as illustrated in . When the UL ratio decreases subframe n is still available to schedule PUSCH of subframe n k thus the UE can use the existing legacy PUSCH scheduling timing relationship indicated by TIF 0 e.g. TIF null . When the UL ratio increases subframe n may not be available to schedule PUSCH of subframe n k thus the UE can use a second PDSCH scheduling timing relationship indicated by TIF 1. For instance when the TIF value for subframes 1 and 6 equal 1 and the TIF value for subframes 0 3 4 5 7 8 and 9 equals zero indicating a reconfiguration from a 40 UL ratio to a 60 UL ratio subframe 0 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 4 of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 0 subframe 1 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframes 7 and 8 of the same frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 1 indicated with a 2 bit DAI subframe 5 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 9 of the of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 5 and subframe 6 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframes 2 and 3 of a subsequent frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 6 indicated with a 2 bit DAI . When the TIF value for the DL subframes and FlexSFs equals 0 e.g. subframes 0 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 and 9 indicating no reconfiguration e.g. maintain a 40 UL ratio subframe 1 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 7 of the same frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 1 subframe 4 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 8 of the of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 4 subframe 6 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 2 of a subsequent frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 6 and subframe 9 can provide the PUSCH scheduling for subframe 3 of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 9. The underlining and bolding of the k values and the TIF 1 values can indicate a change in configuration from the next increment of the UL ratio.

The following provides an example of PUSCH HARQ timing for the TDD configuration 1 as illustrated in . When the UL ratio decreases subframe n is still available for the DL HARQ for PUSCH of subframe n thus the UE can use the existing legacy PUSCH HARQ timing relationship indicated by TIF 0 e.g. TIF null . When the UL ratio increases subframe n may not be available for the DL HARQ for PUSCH of subframe n k thus the UE can use a second PDSCH HARQ timing relationship indicated by TIF 1. For instance when the TIF value for subframes 1 and 6 equal 1 and the TIF value for subframes 0 3 4 5 7 8 and 9 equals zero indicating a reconfiguration from a 40 UL ratio to a 60 UL ratio subframe 0 can provide the DL HARQ e.g. PHICH for subframe 4 of the previous frame corresponding to k 6 or k 6 in subframe 4 subframe 1 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 7 of the previous frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 7 and subframe 1 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 8 from two frames earlier corresponding to k 13 in subframe 8 subframe 5 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 9 of the previous frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 9 and subframe 6 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 2 of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 2 and subframe 6 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 3 of the previous frame corresponding to k 13 in subframe 3. When the TIF value for the DL subframes and FlexSFs equals 0 e.g. subframes 0 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 and 9 indicating no reconfiguration e.g. maintain a 40 UL ratio subframe 1 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 7 of the previous frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 7 subframe 4 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 8 of the previous frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 8 subframe 6 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 2 of the same frame corresponding to k 4 in subframe 2 and subframe 9 can provide the DL HARQ for subframe 3 of the previous frame corresponding to k 6 in subframe 9. The underlining and bolding of the k values and the TIF 1 values can indicate a change in configuration from the next increment of the UL ratio.

As shown in when the UL ratio is changed from 40 to 50 by converting flexible subframe 4 from a DL subframe to an UL subframe a HARQ ACK timing associated with the UL subframe 8 can be changed subsequently to follow a second predefined HARQ timing e.g. h 13 and r 7 represented as 8 6 4 13 7 for a value j h r h r for the UL subframe j because subframe 4 may not be available for a PHICH transmission. The two PUSCH HARQ timings for UL subframe j 2 3 4 7 8 9 can be expressed as j h r h r where upon detection of a physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel PHICH transmission in subframe j rwhere i 0 1 intended for the UE the UE adjusts a corresponding PUSCH transmission in subframe j and receives an associated HARQ acknowledgment HARQ ACK on the PHICH assigned to the UE in subframe j h. Index i 0 can represent when the 1 bit TIF value in the given DCI format for a corresponding first PUSCH transmission in subframe j is in a first state and index i 1 can represent when the 1 bit TIF value in the given DCI format for the corresponding first PUSCH transmission in subframe j is in a second state for the SIB1 indicated UL DL configuration. The node can inform the UE about timing change of the UL subframe 8 by the node transmitting the UL grant with TIF 1 in the subframe 1 with k 6 corresponding to r 7 as shown in . Then the UE correspondingly knows that PUSCH can be transmitted on a following subframe 8 e.g. r 7 and then to receive the PHICH on subframe 1 of a next radio frame e.g. k 13 or h 13 as shown in . When subframe 4 is changed from a DL subframe to a UL subframe in case of a 50 UL ratio the node can schedule the UE to transmit PUSCH on the changed subframe 4. The node can transmit the UL grant in subframe 0 with a TIF 0 e.g. k 4 or r 4 represented as 4 6 4 6 4 for a value j h r h r for the UL subframe j as shown in . Upon detection the UL grant with TIF 0 the UE can transmit the PUSCH on a following subframe 4 e.g. r 4 and then receive the PHICH in subframe 0 of a next radio frame e.g. k 6 or h 6 . For 50 UL ratio of a SIB1 configuration 1 a UL grant to schedule PUSCH transmission on subframe 4 can be transmitted on subframe 0 with TIF 0.

Following similar principles processes and methodologies previous described in relation to case 0 different scheduling and or HARQ timings corresponding to the other six legacy TDD configurations LTE UL DL TDD configurations 0 and 2 6 can also be implemented. For example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 0 i.e. case 1 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 9 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 10 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 11 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 0.

In another example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 2 i.e. case 2 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 12 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 13 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 14 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 2.

In another example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 3 i.e. case 3 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 15 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 16 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 17 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 3.

In another example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 4 i.e. case 4 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 18 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 19 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 20 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 4.

In another example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 5 i.e. case 5 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 21 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 22 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 23 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 5.

In another example illustrate scheduling and HARQ timings when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 6 i.e. case 6 using the TIF. provides an example PDSCH HARQ timing in Table 24 provides an example PUSCH scheduling timing in Table 25 and provides an example PUSCH HARQ timing in Table 26 when the SIB1 configuration is TDD configuration 6.

The methods processes and system described herein can provide mechanisms to support dynamic allocation of UL DL subframes in a backward compatible manner.

In an example i.e. static DCI size each DCI for a DL configured subframe e.g. fixed subframe or flexible subframe can carry a TIF with either a value of 0 or 1 where a default value can be TIF 0. In static DCI size example the TIF can be presented in every DCI in each DL subframe for the UEs supporting UL DL reconfiguration regardless whether the DL subframe is FlexSF configured as a DL subframe or a fixed DL subframe which can reduce blind decoding attempts on DCI at a UE side.

In another example i.e. dynamic DCI size the downlink frames e.g. fixed subframe or flexible subframe controlling a timing change from the SIB1 configuration can carry a TIF with either a value of 0 or 1 and the rest of the DCIs in the downlink frames may not include a TIF but the UE implement power consumption can be increased over including a TIF in every DCI in each DL subframe e.g. static DCI size .

For example as shown in when the DL ratio increases from 60 to 70 by changing the subframe 4 from a UL subframe to a DL subframe including a TIF in only DCIs of DL subframes providing a timing change can mean the UE may have no any prior knowledge on a TIF present or not present during a DCI blind detection. Then the UE may perform two times the number of CRC checking for each blind decoding according to each of two hypothesis of DCI size e.g. X and X 1 where 1 correspond to the TIF where the TIF is a 1 bit TIF . Consequently the power consumption can be doubled for each decoding which can total 32 times the blind decodes BD used on UE specific search space USS so additional the BDs can be substantial.

A dynamically changeable DCI format size scheme e.g. dynamic DCI size can introduce doubled BD for DCI detection at the UE side due to two hypothesis checking. The dynamic DCI size method may provide better DCI detection quality due to less information bits carried for the case of TIF 0 but the benefit may be offset with more UE power consumption so any gain maybe marginal.

Another example provides a method for reconfiguring an uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD configuration timing as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. A user equipment UE for reconfiguring an uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD configuration timing can have computer circuitry to perform the method . The computer circuitry can be configured to decode a physical downlink control channel PDCCH for downlink control information DCI including a timing indication field TIF as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to reconfigure a channel timing for a semi static UL DL TDD configuration using the TIF wherein the channel timing is selected from the group consisting of a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ timing a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH scheduling timing a PUSCH HARQ timing and combinations thereof as in block .

The TIF can be used to dynamically reconfigure the channel timing for a UL DL TDD configuration within a duration of approximately one radio frame or approximately 10 milliseconds ms . The DCI can be transmitted in a UE specific search space and the TIF can be conditionally padded to a legacy DCI for the UE to support a UL DL TDD reconfiguration.

In another example the computer circuitry configured to decode the DCI can be further configured to attempt to decode each PDCCH candidate in a flexible subframe FlexSF with a specified DCI format size with the TIF unless the UE is explicitly instructed to transmit in an uplink for a PUCCH physical uplink control channel or a PUSCH. The flexible subframe can be capable of changing an uplink downlink transmission direction for a set of legacy UL DL TDD configurations. In a configuration the TIF uses 3 bits to provide a one to one mapping to one of seven legacy UL DL TDD configurations.

In another configuration the TIF uses 1 bit to indicate a change from the semi static UL DL TDD configuration to another predefined UL DL TDD configuration. The computer circuitry enabled to reconfigure the channel timing can be further configured to reconfigure the PDSCH HARQ timing based on a combination of enabled TIF values within subframes of a radio frame for a system information block type 1 SIB1 indicated UL DL TDD configuration with an increasing number of downlink subframes from the semi static UL DL TDD configuration. The enabled TIF values can be 1 bit values having one of two states of either 0 or 1 indicating one of two predefined PDSCH HARQ timings for a PDSCH transmission or a downlink semi persistent scheduling SPS release indicated by a detection of a corresponding DCI with the TIF. The two predefined PDSCH HARQ timings indicated by the TIF can be predefined based on a downlink DL subframe index and the SIB1 indicated UL DL configuration.

For example the two predefined PDSCH HARQ timings for DL subframe n 0 n 9 can expressed as n k k . The PDSCH transmission or the downlink SPS release can be indicated by the detection of the corresponding PDCCH with the 1 bit TIF in a DL subframe n. The UE transmits a HARQ acknowledgment HARQ ACK in a subframe n kwhen the TIF value is in a first state or the UE can transmit the HARQ ACK in subframe n kwhen the TIF value is in a second state for the SIB1 indicated UL DL configuration. When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 0 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 4 12 1 6 11 3 9 9 4 9 8 5 4 7 6 6 6 7 6 5 8 5 4 and 9 4 13 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 1 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 7 12 1 6 11 3 4 9 4 4 8 5 7 7 6 6 6 7 5 5 8 5 4 and 9 4 13 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 2 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 7 12 1 6 11 3 4 9 4 8 8 5 7 7 6 6 6 7 5 5 8 4 4 and 9 8 13 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 3 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 4 12 1 11 11 3 9 9 4 9 8 5 7 7 6 6 6 7 6 5 8 5 4 and 9 5 13 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 4 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 12 12 1 11 11 3 9 9 4 8 8 5 7 7 6 7 6 7 6 5 8 5 4 and 9 4 13 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 5 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 12 4 1 11 6 3 9 9 4 8 8 5 7 4 6 6 6 7 5 5 8 4 4 and 9 13 4 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 6 the n k k value for the DL subframe n can be defined as 0 7 12 1 7 11 3 9 9 4 9 8 5 7 7 6 7 6 7 6 5 8 5 4 and 9 5 13 as illustrated in .

In another example the computer circuitry enabled to reconfigure the channel timing can be further configured to reconfigure the PUSCH scheduling timing or the PUSCH HARQ timing based on a combination of enabled TIF values within subframes of a radio frame for a system information block type 1 SIB1 indicated UL DL TDD configuration with an increasing number of uplink subframes from the semi static UL DL TDD configuration. The enabled TIF values can have 1 bit values having one of two states of either 0 or 1 indicating one of two predefined PUSCH HARQ timings for each PUSCH transmission. The two PUSCH scheduling timings and PUSCH HARQ timings indicated by the TIF can be predefined based on an uplink UL subframe index and the SIB1 indicated UL DL configuration.

For example the two PUSCH HARQ timings for UL subframe j 2 3 4 7 8 9 can be expressed as j h r h r . Upon detection of a physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel PHICH transmission in subframe j rwhere i 0 1 intended for the UE the UE can adjusts a corresponding PUSCH transmission in subframe j and can receive an associated HARQ acknowledgment HARQ ACK on the PHICH assigned to the UE in subframe j h. The index i 0 when the 1 bit TIF value in the given DCI format for a corresponding first PUSCH transmission in subframe j is in a first state and i 1 when the 1 bit TIF value in the given DCI format for the corresponding first PUSCH transmission in subframe j is in a second state for the SIB1 indicated UL DL configuration. When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 0 the j h r h r value for the UL subframe j can be defined as 2 4 7 4 6 3 7 4 5 4 4 6 7 4 4 7 4 7 8 7 8 7 4 7 7 and 9 6 7 6 7 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 1 the j h r h r value for the UL subframe j can be defined as 2 4 6 4 6 3 6 4 13 7 4 6 4 6 4 7 4 6 4 6 8 6 4 13 7 and 9 6 4 6 4 as illustrated in and 9. When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 2 the j h r h r value for the UL subframe j can be defined as 2 6 4 4 6 3 6 4 13 7 4 6 4 6 4 7 6 4 4 6 8 13 7 13 7 and 9 6 4 6 4 as illustrated in . When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 3 or a TDD configuration 4 or a TDD configuration 5 the j h r h r value for the UL subframe j can be defined as 2 6 4 4 6 3 6 4 13 7 4 6 4 6 4 7 4 6 4 6 8 13 7 13 7 and 9 6 4 6 4 as illustrated in B C and B C. When the UL DL configuration indicated by the SIB1 is a TDD configuration 6 the j h r h r value for the UL subframe j can be defined as 2 4 7 6 4 3 6 5 7 4 4 6 7 4 4 7 4 7 8 7 8 7 7 7 7 and 9 6 4 6 4 as illustrated in .

In another example the computer circuitry can be further configured to Transmit a PDSCH HARQ to a node based on the reconfigured semi static UL DL TDD configuration transmit the a PUSCH to the node based on the reconfigured semi static UL DL TDD configuration or receive a PUSCH HARQ from the node based on the reconfigured semi static UL DL TDD configuration. In another configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive the PDCCH in a downlink subframe a special subframe or a flexible subframe wherein the flexible subframe is capable of changing an uplink downlink transmission direction for a set of legacy UL DL TDD configurations.

Another example provides a method for indicating an uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD reconfiguration as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of obtaining a timing indication field TIF from a downlink control information DCI in a subframe as in block . The operation of reconfiguring a channel timing for a specified UL DL configuration using the TIF wherein the channel timing is selected from the group consisting of a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ timing a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH scheduling timing a PUSCH HARQ timing and combinations thereof follows as in block .

In example the method can further include decoding each physical downlink control channel PDCCH in a flexible subframe FlexSF . The flexible subframe can be capable of changing an uplink downlink transmission direction for a set of UL DL configurations. The TIF can include 3 bits to provide a mapping to a legacy UL DL configuration.

In another example the TIF includes 1 bit to indicate a change in the channel timing for the specified UL DL configuration configured through a system information block type 1 SIB1 to a UL DL configuration with an increase or decrease in downlink subframes relative to the specified UL DL configuration. The operation of reconfiguring the channel timing for the specified UL DL TDD configuration can further include Reconfiguring the PDSCH HARQ timing based on a combination of TIF values within subframes of a radio frame for a UL DL configuration with an increasing number of downlink subframes relative to the specified UL DL configuration reconfiguring the PDSCH HARQ timing based on a combination of TIF values within subframes of the radio frame for a UL DL configuration with an decreasing number of downlink subframes relative to the specified UL DL configuration where the specified UL DL configuration has a maximum number of downlink subframes in a set of legacy UL DL configurations reconfiguring the PUSCH scheduling timing or the PUSCH HARQ based on a combination of TIF values within subframes of the radio frame for a UL DL configuration with an increasing number of uplink subframes relative to the specified UL DL configuration or reconfiguring the PUSCH scheduling timing or the PUSCH HARQ based on a combination of TIF values within subframes of the radio frame for a UL DL configuration with an decreasing number of uplink subframes relative to the specified UL DL configuration where the specified UL DL configuration has a maximum number of uplink subframes in a set of legacy UL DL configurations.

Another example provides a method indicating an uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD reconfiguration as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a configuration indication to change a UL DL configuration via radio resource control RRC signaling at a user equipment UE as in block . The operation of decoding the RRC signaling for the configuration indication with a specified periodicity less than a legacy semi static system information change process periodicity follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be reconfiguring the UL DL configuration based on the configuration indication as in block .

The configuration indication can include 3 bits in a master information block MIB to indicate up to eight different UL DL TDD configurations such as the LTE legacy UL DL TDD configurations. In an example the legacy semi static system information change process periodicity can be approximately 640 milliseconds ms . The specified periodicity can be less than approximately 50 milliseconds ms . In a configuration the operation of decoding the RRC signaling for the configuration indication can further include decoding a master information block MIB each time the MIB is sent by a node.

In another configuration transceiver module can be further configured to Receive a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ from the UE based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration receive a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH from the UE based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration or transmit a PUSCH HARQ to the UE based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration. The processing module can be further operable to Dynamically monitor uplink and downlink traffic for the node and dynamically determine a change in the UL DL TDD configuration based on uplink and downlink traffic. The TIF can be used to dynamically reconfigure the UL DL TDD configuration within a duration of approximately one radio frame or approximately 10 milliseconds ms . The DCI can be encoded in a UE specific search space. The TIF can be conditionally padded to a legacy DCI. The TIF can use 3 bits to indicate a mapping to a legacy UL DL TDD configuration or the TIF can use 1 bit to indicate a change from the semi static UL DL TDD configuration to another predefined UL DL TDD configuration. The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU a central processing module CPM .

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for reconfiguring an uplink downlink UL DL time division duplexing TDD configuration timing. The processing module or decoder can be configured to decode a physical downlink control channel PDCCH for downlink control information DCI including a timing indication field TIF . The processing module can be configured to reconfigure a channel timing for a semi static UL DL TDD configuration using the TIF. The channel timing can include a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ timing a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH scheduling timing or a PUSCH HARQ timing. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the DCI including the TIF in a UE specific search space.

In another example the transceiver module can be configured to Transmit a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ to the node based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration transmit a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH to the node based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration or receive a PUSCH HARQ from the node based on the reconfigured UL DL TDD configuration.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

