---

title: Precision disablement aiming system
abstract: A disrupter to a target may be precisely aimed by positioning a radiation source to direct radiation towards the target, and a detector is positioned to detect radiation that passes through the target. An aiming device is positioned between the radiation source and the target, wherein a mechanical feature of the aiming device is superimposed on the target in a captured radiographic image. The location of the aiming device in the radiographic image is used to aim a disrupter towards the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09261337&OS=09261337&RS=09261337
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09261337
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131105
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Disrupters are mechanisms that are configured to emit a projectile towards the target for purposes of disrupting or disabling a target where disruption of the target refers to inhibiting the target from performing a task while disablement of the target refers to preventing the target from performing the task e.g. through destroying the target . For example a disrupter has conventionally been employed for purposes of disrupting and disabling an explosive device such as an improvised explosive device IED . In a more specific example a disrupter has conventionally been used to disrupt or disable a battery such as a 9V battery in an explosive device. The disrupter is aimed at the battery and a projectile emitted from the disrupter impacts the battery thereby for example disabling the battery and thus the explosive device .

Conventional means however for aiming a disrupter towards a target are relatively imprecise. While aiming precision is not necessary for all applications of disrupting or disabling a target in many scenarios higher precision in aiming the disrupter may be desirable such as when componentry of electronics coupled to an explosive is desirably analyzed to ascertain information pertaining to an explosive device such as the manufacturer of the explosive device place of origin of the explosive device etc.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to relatively precisely aiming a disrupter with respect to a target are described herein wherein the disrupter can be aimed with precision on the order of millimeters. An exemplary system includes a radiation source e.g. an x ray source that is configured to emit radiation towards a proximal side of a target. In an example the target may be or include a component of an explosive device a surface mounted circuit component or the like. A detector is positioned on an opposite side of the target from the radiation source such that the detector detects radiation emanating from a distal side of the target. Accordingly through utilization of the radiation source and the detector a radiographic image of the target can be generated.

The system additionally includes an aiming device that is positioned between the radiation source and the proximal side of the target when the radiographic image is generated. Thus the radiographic image can include the target and the aiming device superpositioned thereon. A position in the radiographic image of the aiming device is referred to as an aim point. An analyst can review the radiographic image and ascertain if the aim point is at a desired location relative to the target. If the position of the aim point is not at the desired location relative to the target the analyst can cause the position of the aiming device to be adjusted. A new radiographic image is then generated and a location of the aim point in the new radiographic image is reviewed by the analyst. This process can repeat until the aim point is at the desired location in a radiographic image.

When the analyst indicates that the aim point is at the desired location the analyst can cause a disrupter to be aimed at the target at a location thereon that corresponds to the location of the aim point on the target in the radiographic image. With more specificity the disrupter is configured to emit a disrupting entity e.g. a projectile a laser beam etc. along a projecting axis and the disrupter can be positioned such that the projecting axis intersects the location on the target that corresponds to the location of the aim point in the radiographic image. Positioning of the disrupter in this manner can be accomplished by way of a variety of techniques. For instance the aiming device can be an attachment to a housing of the radiation source and can be detached when the aim point is at the desired location. The disrupter can also be an attachment to the housing and can replace the aiming device when the aim point is at the desired location. In another example the aiming device and the disrupter can be mechanically linked e.g. coupled to a common shaft and mechanical stops and or detents can be used to position the disrupter such that the projectile emitted thereby will impact the target at the desired location.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to aiming a disrupter towards a target are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by a single system component may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a single component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Further as used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to relatively precisely aiming a disrupter towards a target. The technologies described herein are particularly well suited for applications where a relatively small projectile e.g. such as a relatively small explosive shape charge desirably disrupts or disables a relatively small target such as a surface mounted component on a printed circuit board PCB . The technologies described herein allow for aiming precision to be on the order of millimeters in comparison to precision on the order of inches associated with conventional disrupter aiming techniques .

With reference now to an exemplary system that facilitates relatively precisely aiming a disrupter towards a target is illustrated. The system includes a radiation source that can emit a suitable form of radiation. In an exemplary embodiment the radiation source may be a portable x ray source a neutron generator a permanently affixed x ray source an ultrasound source etc. Further the radiation source can be configured to output radiation conically. As shown in the radiation source is positioned to direct radiation towards a proximal side of a target object . In an exemplary embodiment the target object can be an explosive device such as an improvised explosive device IED a trigger circuit for an explosive device etc. The target object may include a target therein wherein the target can be an element of the target object . Accordingly for example the target may be a surface mounted component on a PCB such as a resistor capacitor inductor etc. In other examples the target may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC microprocessor wiring between components a battery etc.

The system further comprises a detector that is configured to detect radiation of the form emitted by the radiation source . As shown the detector can be positioned to detect radiation emanating from a distal side of the target object . That is the target object is placed between the radiation source and the detector . In an exemplary embodiment the detector can comprise film that is reactive to radiation of the form emitted by the radiation source . In another example the detector can be a portion of a computerized detector.

An imager may be included in the system wherein the imager can be configured to generate a radiographic image for display on a display screen associated with a computing device . For example the imager may be a scanner that is coupled to the computing device wherein the detector comprises film that is placed on the scanner to generate the radiographic image. In another example the imager can be a computer executable component that is configured to receive values from the detector and generate a radiographic image based upon such values. Further in an exemplary embodiment the imager can relatively rapidly generate radiographic images based upon values generated by the detector . For instance the imager can generate images at a rate between one frame per second and one hundred frames per second. An analyst can review at least one radiographic image wherein the at least one radiographic image comprises an image of the target .

The system can further include a disrupter that is configured to emit a projectile that can disrupt or disable the target . In an exemplary embodiment such projectile may be a shape charge. For example size of such shape charge can be relatively small such as between 1 mm and 50 mm in diameter. In an exemplary embodiment the shape charge comprises an explosive such as C 4 and can be lined with a copper liner. In another example the disrupter can be a laser that is configured to direct a laser beam at the target thereby disrupting or disabling the target . Because the target is relatively small and the projectile emitted by the disrupter is relatively small it is desirable that the disrupter be aimed at the target in a relatively precise manner.

To that end the system additionally comprises an aiming device which may be mechanically attached to the radiation source as an attachment and or to the disrupter . The aiming device can include mechanical alignment features that may assist the analyst in aiming the disrupter at the target . For example the aiming device may be shaped as a cylindrical barrel having a size and shape that corresponds to size and shape of a barrel of the disrupter . Thus positioning the aiming device relative to the target can be similar from the perspective of the analyst to positioning the disrupter relative to the target . In such an exemplary approach the analyst can use the aiming device in connection with determining a proper distance between an end of the aiming device and the target object .

Moreover the aiming device can comprise mechanical features that can create an aim point on a radiographic image that is generated based upon output of the detector . In other words when the aiming device is positioned between the radiation source and the target object a radiographic image of the target object and thus the target can have an image of the mechanical features of the aiming device superimposed thereon. The location of such mechanical features in a radiographic image is referred to herein as an aim point. In the exemplary embodiment where the aiming device is formed as a hollow cylinder a radiographic image generated when the aiming device is positioned between the radiation source and the target object will have thereon a circular outline corresponding to the barrel of the aiming device . The location of such circular outline on the radiographic image is the aim point.

When the analyst deems that the aim point on a radiographic image is at a desired location relative to the target the disrupter can be positioned to emit a disrupting element e.g. projectile at a location on the target that corresponds to the location of the aim point in the radiographic image. With more particularity the disrupter can have a projection axis associated therewith wherein a projectile emitted by the disrupter travels along the projection axis. When the aim point is at the desired location relative to the target in the radiographic image the disrupter can be positioned such that the projection axis intersects the target at a location that corresponds to the location of the aim point on the radiographic image.

The positioning of the disrupter in this manner can be accomplished by a variety of techniques. For example as indicated above the aiming device may be an attachment that can attach to a housing of the radiation source or some other relatively stable structure . Once the aim point is at a desired location in the radiographic image the aiming device can be detached from the radiation source . The disrupter can be shaped similarly to the aiming device and can likewise be an attachment. The disrupter can be attached to the housing of the radiation source or other stable structure at the location where the aiming device was attached when the aiming device was positioned at a desired location. Thus when attached to the radiation source the projection axis of the disrupter can be directed at a most recent aim point associated with the aiming device . In another example the aiming device and the disrupter may be mechanically linked. For instance the disrupter and the aiming device can be coupled to a common shaft wherein the shaft can be rotated to cause the disrupter to take the place of the aiming device in space. This can be accomplished for example through utilization of mechanical stops detents etc.

The system may further include an actuator that is configured to drive at least one of the disrupter or the aiming device . In other words the actuator can cause at least one of the disrupter or the aiming device to alter position in space tilt etc. Pursuant to an example the actuator can drive the disrupter and or the aiming device responsive to receipt of a control signal from the computing device . As will be described in greater detail herein the analyst can review a radiographic image displayed on a display screen associated with the computing device wherein the radiographic image has the aim point superimposed on the target . The imager is configured to generate updated radiographic images relatively rapidly as the analyst controls the location of the aiming device through interaction with for example the radiographic image shown on the display screen of the computing device . That is the analyst can select a location on the radiographic image where the aim point is desirably located e.g. a new aim point which causes the aiming device to be relocated by the actuator . On a subsequently generated radiographic image the new aim point is positioned at the desired location on the radiographic image. Once the analyst confirms that the new aim point corresponds to the location on the target as desired the computing device can output a signal to control the actuator thereby causing the disrupter to be aimed at the location on the target that corresponds to the location of the aim point in the radiographic image. Thereafter the analyst can cause the disrupter to emit the projectile thereby disrupting or disabling the target .

With reference now to an exemplary implementation of the aiming device is illustrated. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the aiming device is formed as a hollow cylinder wherein such cylinder can be composed of a metal a plastic or the like. Radiation emitted by the radiation source passes through a hollow region of the aiming device and around the aiming device but is attenuated by the walls of the aiming device in the circular cross section of the aiming device . Radiation emitted by the radiation source then impacts the target object and the target therein which again attenuates such radiation. The detector detects radiation emanating from the distal side of the target object .

With reference to an exemplary radiographic image is illustrated wherein the radiographic image comprises an aim point corresponding to the aiming device in the exemplary embodiment shown in . The radiographic image includes the target . The radiographic image further includes an aim point which is an image of the circular cross section of the wall of the cylindrical aiming device relative to the target . Since the cross section of the wall of the aiming device is shown in the radiographic image as being on the target the analyst can indicate that the aim point is at a location on the target that is desired and can cause the disrupter to be aimed based upon the location of the aim point in the radiographic image .

With reference now to an exemplary implementation of the aiming device that may facilitate even more precise aiming of the disrupter towards the target is illustrated. The aiming device includes a pair of aiming mechanisms and shown in as being crosshairs. It is to be understood however that the aiming mechanisms may be of any suitable shape. The aiming mechanisms and are spatially separated from one another thus the first aiming device is positioned closer to the target when compared to the second aiming mechanism . As will be shown below utilization of the aiming mechanisms through can increase precision with respect to aiming the disrupter towards the target as the aiming mechanisms form an aiming axis.

Turning to a series of radiographic images are depicted. The first radiographic image includes a first aim point and a second aim point that are misaligned with respect to one another. Accordingly the aiming device may be somewhat tilted with respect to the radiation source and or the target . The analyst can cause the position of the target object the position of the aiming device and or the position of the radiation source to be altered in an attempt to cause the first aim point and the second aim point to be more closely aligned in a subsequently captured radiographic image.

As shown in the second radiographic image movement of the at least one of the target object the aiming device or the radiation source can cause the aim points and to be more closely aligned thereby allowing the analyst to have increased confidence when causing the disrupter to emit a projectile. The analyst may then further cause the aiming device the target object and or the radiation source to be moved such that in the third radiographic image the aim points and are more closely aligned. As shown in the third radiographic image the aim points and are coincident with one another. That is the aiming axis of the aiming device is relatively precisely directed to the location on the target that corresponds to the location in the third radiographic image where the aim points and are coincident on the target .

Turning now to yet another implementation of the aiming device is shown. In such an example the aiming device can be formed of parallel plates and each plate comprising a respective aperture and . Radiation emitted by the radiation source is attenuated by the plates and but can pass through the apertures and . Radiation passing through the apertures and is directed along an axis formed between the apertures and and impacts the target object . The radiation that impacts the target object and target is attenuated and the detector detects the radiation emanating from the distal side of the target .

With reference to a pair of radiographic images and are shown. The first radiographic image includes a first aim point and a second aim point . As with the aim points shown in it is desirable that the aim points and be coincident with one another instead of partially overlapping as shown in the first radiographic image . In the second radiographic image the aiming device the radiation source and or the target object has been moved compared to their respective positions pertaining to the first radiographic image such that the aiming points and entirely overlap providing a bright view of a portion of the target in the second radiographic image . A projectile emitted by the disrupter will travel along the projection axis coincident with the aiming axis corresponding to the aim points and in the second radiographic image and impact the target at a location thereon that corresponds to the coincident aim points.

With reference now to an automated approach to aligning positioning the aiming device is illustrated. In a first radiographic image an aim point is shown as being misaligned with the target . The analyst can employ a cursor or a touch sensitive display to select a location in the first radiographic image where the aim point is desirably placed. Selection of such portion of the radiographic image can cause the computing device to transmit a control signal to the actuator which can then cause the aiming device to be repositioned such that the aim point in a subsequently generated radiographic image will be at the location relative to the target selected by the analyst . As shown in the second radiographic image the actuator has repositioned the aiming device such that the aim point is located on the target in the second radiographic image at the location specified by the analyst . The analyst can thus be informed that the aiming device is properly aligned with respect to the target and the disrupter can then be configured to be aimed such that the projection axis of the disrupter intercepts the target at a location that corresponds to the aim point in the second radiographic image .

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates forming a system that can be utilized to precisely aim a disrupter towards a target is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a disrupter is provided. The disrupter comprises a barrel through which a shape charge is to be propelled wherein the barrel has a projection axis extending therefrom. As indicated above the shape charge can be relatively small in size such as on the order of several millimeters in width. At an aiming device that has an aim axis is provided. Exemplary aiming devices have been set forth above.

At the disrupter is coupled with an actuator wherein the actuator is configured to position the barrel relative to a target based upon the aim axis. The methodology completes at .

Turning now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates adjusting the aim of a disrupter is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an x ray source is positioned to direct x rays towards a proximal side of a target. At an aiming device is positioned between the x ray source and the proximal side of the target. At a detector is positioned to detect x rays emanating from a distal side of the target wherein such x rays were emitted by the x ray source.

In the x ray source is caused to emit x rays towards the proximal side of the target. At a radiographic image of the target is analyzed wherein such image includes an aim point formed by the aiming device being positioned between the x ray source and the proximal side of the target. At the disrupter is positioned such that it is aimed at the target at a location thereon that corresponds to the location of the aim point in the x ray image. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology for aiming a disrupter relatively precisely towards a target is illustrated. The methodology starts and at a radiographic image of a target is received wherein the radiographic image comprises an aim point. At an indication of a new location of the aim point is received on the radiographic image. For instance as described with respect to the analyst can select a position on the radiographic image where the aim point is desirably located. At a signal is transmitted to an actuator wherein the signal causes the actuator to alter the position of an aiming device wherein mechanical features of the aiming device form the aim point in the radiographic image. This can cause the aim point in a subsequently generated image to be at the location relative to the target selected by the analyst. This semi automated approach facilitates more expeditious aiming of the disrupter compared to conventional approaches. The methodology completes at .

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports aligning a disrupter relative to a target. By way of another example the computing device can be used in a system that supports causing a disrupter to emit a projectile towards a target. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store images aim point locations etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions images aim point locations etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

It is contemplated that the external devices that communicate with the computing device via the input interface and the output interface can be included in an environment that provides substantially any type of user interface with which a user can interact. Examples of user interface types include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces and so forth. For instance a graphical user interface may accept input from a user employing input device s such as a keyboard mouse remote control or the like and provide output on an output device such as a display. Further a natural user interface may enable a user to interact with the computing device in a manner free from constraints imposed by input device such as keyboards mice remote controls and the like. Rather a natural user interface can rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both on screen and adjacent to the screen air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech vision touch gestures machine intelligence and so forth.

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively or in addition the functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

