---

title: Treatment of heart failure
abstract: The invention relates to perhexiline, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of heart failure, as well as to a method for treating heart failure, which comprises administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of perhexiline, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, to treat said heart failure. The invention further relates to a treatment programme for treating heart failure, which involves the co-use or co-administration of perhexiline with one or more other compounds that are advantageous in treating heart failure or the symptoms thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468634&OS=09468634&RS=09468634
owner: Heart Metabolics Limited
number: 09468634
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 785 077 filed May 21 2010 which is 1 a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT GB2008 003913 filed Nov. 24 2008 which claims the benefit of GB Application No. 0723100.4 filed Nov. 23 2007 and the benefit of U.S. Application No. 60 990 933 filed Nov. 29 2007 and 2 a continuation of International Application No. PCT GB2009 050539 filed May 20 2009. The entire contents of each of the above identified applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Significant advances in therapy for heart failure HF with impaired systolic function have improved quality of life and increased survival. However up to 50 of patients who have clinical evidence of HF are found to have a relatively or near normal left ventricular ejection fraction HF with normal left ventricular LV ejection fraction syndrome HFnEF also referred to as HF with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction syndrome HFpEF . Patients with HFnEF represent a rapidly increasing proportion of patients hospitalised and suffering mortality from heart failure.

Despite a normal EF HFnEF patients manifest subtle systolic dysfunction but the principal abnormality in most is a disorder of active relaxation and or passive filling of the LV. However resting measures of active relaxation and filling relate poorly to symptoms and exercise capacity therefore no gold standard diagnostic echocardiographic test exists for HFnEF. Effective ventricular filling results from a highly energy dependent active relaxation process and from passive filling which is dependent on loading conditions as well as the intrinsic passive properties of the LV. Since both these parameters change markedly during exercise due to sympathetic activation it is not surprising that these resting parameters are so poorly predictive of exercise capacity and symptoms.

The treatment of patients with HFnEF is discussed in Hunt et al. ACC AHA 2005 Guideline Update for the Diagnosis and Management of Chronic Heart Failure in the Adult 2005 Section 4.3.2 available at www.acc.org.

Perhexiline 2 2 2 dicyclohexylethyl piperidine is a known anti anginal agent that operates principally by virtue of its ability to shift metabolism in the heart from free fatty acid metabolism to glucose which is more energy efficient.

WO A 2005 087233 discloses the use of perhexiline for the treatment of chronic heart failure CHF where the CHF is a result of an initial inciting influence of ischaemia or where the CHF is a result of an initial non ischaemic inciting influence.

According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treating HFnEF which comprises administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of perhexiline or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat said HFnEF. The animal is preferably a mammal and most preferably a human.

According to another aspect of the present invention perhexiline or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is provided for use in the treatment of HFnEF.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a treatment programme for treating HFnEF which involves the co use or co administration of perhexiline or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with one or more other compounds that are advantageous in treating HFnEF or the symptoms thereof for example a diuretic an angiotensin receptor blocker or a calcium channel blocker.

The findings of the study reported in Example 1 herein are that a HFpEF patients manifest a significant reduction in PCr ATP ratio at rest indicating impairment of myocardial energy reserves and b during exercise the energetically demanding active relaxation stage of diastole lengthened in patients vs. a shortening in controls and there was also a failure of contractile function to increase in patients. These abnormalities together resulted in a lower stroke volume on exercise. It was also found that HFpEF patients demonstrated chronotropic incompetence on exercise.

These findings correlate closely with findings in a study of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy HCM which is reported in Example 2. The study of Example 2 also demonstrated the effectiveness of the agent perhexiline in the treatment of patients with HCM. Because of the related pathophysiology of HFnEF and HCM the inventors are able to predict based on the effectiveness of perhexiline in the treatment of HCM that this same agent will be an effective therapeutic agent for treatment of HFnEF.

In aspects of the present invention the perhexiline exists in the form of a salt of perhexiline preferably the maleate salt. The perhexiline may be used at doses titrated to achieve therapeutic but non toxic plasma perhexiline levels Kennedy J A Kiosoglous A J Murphy G A Pelle M A Horowitz J D. Effect of perhexiline and oxfenicine on myocardial function and metabolism during low flow ischemia reperfusion in the isolated rat heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 2000 36 6 794 801 . Typical doses for a normal patient would be 100 mg to 300 mg daily although smaller doses may be appropriate for patients who are slow metabolisers of perhexiline.

Physiologically acceptable formulations such as salts of the compound perhexiline may be used in the invention. Additionally a medicament may be formulated for administration in any convenient way and the invention therefore also includes within its scope use of the medicament in a conventional manner in a mixture with one or more physiologically acceptable carriers or excipients. Preferably the carriers should be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. The medicament may be formulated for oral buccal parental intravenous or rectal administration. Additionally or alternatively the medicament may be formulated in a more conventional form such as a tablet capsule syrup elixir or any other known oral dosage form.

The role of exercise related changes was evaluated in left ventricular LV relaxation and of vasculo ventricular coupling as the mechanism of exercise limitation in patients with heart failure with normal or preserved LV ejection fraction HFnEF and whether cardiac energetic impairment may underlie these abnormalities.

The study involved 37 patients with HFpEF and 20 matched controls. Vasculo ventricular coupling VVC and Time to Peak LV Filling a measure of LV active relaxation nTTPF were assessed at rest and on exercise by Multiple Uptake Gated Acquisition scanning. Cardiac energetic status PCr ATP ratio was assessed by P Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy. At rest nTTPF and VVC were similar in patients and controls. Cardiac PCr ATP ratio was reduced in patients vs. controls 1.57 0.52 vs. 2.14 0.62 P 0.003 . VOmax was lower in patients vs. controls 19 4 vs. 36 8 ml kg min P

The study involved 37 HFpEF patients prospectively recruited from heart failure clinics. Also studied were twenty age gender matched healthy controls with no cardiac history or diabetes mellitus. Study participants had clinical examination 12 lead electrocardiogram pulmonary function test echocardiogram metabolic exercise test radionuclide ventriculography and a subgroup underwent cardiac P MRS studies to assess cardiac energetic status. All controls had a normal cardiovascular examination 12 lead electrocardiogram and echocardiogram. HFpEF patients were defined in accordance with ACC AHA recommendation 1 i symptoms and signs of heart failure ii ejection fraction 50 iii no valvular abnormalities. In addition it was stipulated that patients should have iv VOmax 

Echocardiography was performed with participants in the left lateral decubitus position with a Vivid 7 echocardiographic machine using a 2.5 MHz transducer. Cardiac quantifications were determined in accordance with European Association of Echocardiography. 2 LV end systolic elastance Ees a measure of LV contractility was determined using the non invasive single beat technique. 3 Arterial elastance Ea a measure of the stiffness of the entire arterial tree was calculated as the ratio of LV end systolic pressure stroke volume. Studies were stored digitally and analyzed off line.

In vivo myocardial energetics was measured by MRS at 3 Tesla 4 . P cardiac magnetic resonance spectroscopy was performed using a Phillips Achieva 3T scanner and a linearly polarized transmitter and receiver P coil with a diameter of 14 cm. The repetition time was 10000 ms with 136 averages and 512 samples. Acquisition was ECG gated and the trigger delay was set to acquire in diastole. Total scan time was 23 minutes 5 . Java magnetic resonance user interface v3.0 jMRUI was used for analysis. PCr and ATP was used to determine the PCr ATP ratio which is a measure of cardiac energetic state 6 . Patients with ischemic heart disease and diabetes N 7 were excluded from the MRS studies because these conditions are known to have impaired cardiac energetics 7 8 . Patients with contraindications were also excluded from the MRS study N 5 . One patient s spectra was excluded from the analysis due to poor quality. Three controls had contraindication to MRS study. Data were analysed separately by an investigator unaware of participants clinical status.

LV ejection fraction and diastolic filling were assessed by radionuclide ventriculography at rest and during graded semi erect exercise on a cycle ergometer as previously described. 9 10 Three minutes of data were acquired at rest and during exercise after a 30 second period for stabilisation of heart rate at the commencement of each stage. Exercise was performed at 50 workloads of heart rate reserve. Data were analysed using LinkMedical MAPS software Sun Microsystems Hampshire UK . Peak left ventricular filling rate in terms of end diastolic count per second EDC s and time to peak filling normalised for R R interval nTTPF in milliseconds after end systole were calculated from the first derivative of the diastolic activity time curve. Venous blood samples were obtained for weighing and for counting of blood gamma activity during each scan in order to correct for physical and physiological decay as well as for determination of relative volume changes. 11 The validity of these radionuclide measures of diastolic filling at high heart rates has been established previously. 12 

All gated blood pool scan derived volumes were normalized to body surface area yielding their respective indexes end diastolic volume index EDVI end systolic volume index ESVI stroke volume index SVI and cardiac index. The following indexes were calculated a arterial elastance index EaI ESP SVI b LV end systolic elastance index ELVI ESP ESVI and c vasculo ventricular coupling ratio VVC EaI ELVI 1 EF 1. 13 

All participants underwent a symptom limited erect treadmill exercise using a standard ramp protocol with simultaneous respiratory gas analysis. 14 

Continuous variables are expressed as means SD. Unpaired Student s t test 2 tail was used to assess differences between mean values. Categorical variables were compared with Pearson Chi Square test. All reported P values were calculated on the basis of two sided tests and a P value of 

In variables correlating with Aerobic Exercise Capacity VOmax are shown. Panel A VOmax correlated negatively with Exercise induced Changes in nTTPF. Panel B VOmax correlated negatively with Exercise induced Changes in Vasculo Ventricular Coupling Ratio. Panel C VOmax correlated directly with Exercise induced Changes in Heart Rate. Black circles indicate patients with HFpEF and Open circles represents healthy controls. When patients on beta blockers were excluded from analysis the level of significance were similar.

In Panel A shows an MR images of a patient with HFpEF lying prone over a P surface coil and the corresponding localized P MR spectra from the left ventricle is shown in panel B. The resonances derive from PCr and the and phosphate Resonances of the ATP. Panel C Individual PCr ATP ratio in Patients with HFpEF and Controls. The PCr ATP ratio was significantly reduced in patients with HFpEF compared to healthy controls P 0.003

Plus minus values are means SD. When patients on beta blockers were excluded from analysis the level of significance were similar apart from resting HR P 0.14 . NYHA denotes New York Heart Association ACE angiotensin converting enzyme ARB angiotensin II receptor blockers BMI body mass index SBP systolic blood pressure DBP diastolic blood pressure MABP mean arterial blood pressure LA left atrium E E mitral E wave velocity E tissue velocity PW TDI at basal inferoseptum ratio Ees denotes Left Ventricular End Systolic Elastance and Ea is Arterial elastance. The bodymass index is the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters.

Plus minus values are means SD. When patients on beta blockers were excluded from analysis the level of significance were similar apart from peak filling rates during exercise P 0.08 . EDC end diastolic count. SBP systolic blood pressure DBP diastolic blood pressure MABP mean arterial blood pressure. Relative Stroke Volume Index is SVi EXERCISE SVi REST. Relative Cardiac Output Index is COi EXERCISE COi REST. Relative ELVI is ELVIEXERCISE ELVIREST. Relative EaI is EaIEXERCISE EaIREST. Vasculoventricular coupling ratio is EaI ELVI EXERCISE EaI ELVI REST. VVC 0.01 0.15 0.25 0.19 

HFpEF Patients were generally females overweight aged 67 9 years old with a history of hypertension however blood pressure was well treated systolic BP 138 19 mmHg vs. 131 23 mmHg p 0.23 in patients vs. controls see Table 4 below . The tissue Doppler E E at the basal anterolateral left ventricular wall a measure of left ventricular end diastolic pressure 15 was significantly higher in patients than controls. There was also a trend non significant to higher Ees in patients than in the control group. HFpEF patients also had significantly reduced VOmax and reduced peak HR on metabolic exercise testing. There was a positive correlation between VOmax and HR HREXERCISE HRREST r 0.7 P

Left Ventricular Active Relaxation nTTPF is determined by the rate of active relaxation 16 and by transmitral pressure gradient at the time of mitral valve opening. nTTPF was similar at rest in HFpEF patients and controls. During exercise it shortened in controls but lengthened in patients Table 2 . There was a negative correlation between VOmax and nTTPF nTTPFEXERCISE nTTPFREST r 0.4 P 0.005 see . Furthermore during exercise other radionuclide ventriculography diastolic filling variables such as peak filling rates as well as systolic function parameters e.g. EF and peak emptying rates were significantly reduced in patients compared to controls. see Table 2 Left Ventricular Contractile Function and Vasculo Ventricular Coupling

VVC was similar at rest in HFpEF patients and controls. During exercise LV arterial elastance a measure of the stiffness of the entire arterial tree increased in both patients and controls but tended to increase more in patients. LV end systolic elastance a measure of LV contractile function markedly increased on exercise in controls but increased substantially less in patients. Accordingly the vasculoventricular coupling ratio was essentially unchanged on exercise inpatients but fell substantially on exercise in healthy controls furthermore whilst resting LVEF and peak emptying rate were similar in patients and controls on exercise both were lower in patients. There was a negative correlation between VOmax and VVC on exercise r 0.6 P

At rest cardiac PCr ATP ratio in HFpEF patients N 24 was significantly reduced compared to healthy controls N 17 1.57 0.52 and 2.14 0.63 respectively P 0.003 see .

In the multivariate analysis a linear regression model was used to examine VOmax as the dependent variable and found that exercise induced changes in HR VVC and nTTPF were independent predictors of VOmax. see Table 3 

The principal findings are a HFpEF patients manifest a significant reduction in PCr ATP ratio at rest indicating impairment of myocardial energy reserve that is likely to be exacerbated during exercise. b As a corollary during exercise the energetically demanding active relaxation stage of diastole lengthened in patients vs. a shortening in controls and was accompanied with a failure to increase LV contractile function. These combined dynamic abnormalities of both diastolic and contractile function together resulted in a lower stroke volume on exercise. c Consistent with previous studies HFpEF patients demonstrated chronotropic incompetence on exercise. 17 . d This study underlines the importance of dynamic rather than resting assessment of cardiac function to comprehensively characterise patients with HFpEF.

The pathophysiology of HFpEF has been the subject of considerable controversy. These patients are typically hypertensive and exhibit impaired LV active relaxation and or increased passive left ventricular diastolic stiffness at rest. 18 This has led many to conclude that exercise limitation is primarily a result of impaired LV diastolic filling and to the use of the term diastolic heart failure by some. 19 However diastolic dysfunction is also a common finding at rest in healthy elderly subjects. 20 Furthermore subtle abnormalities of systolic function in particular long axis systolic function are also almost universally observed in HFpEF patients despite normal LV ejection fraction. 21 This has led others to propose that HFpEF is predominantly a disorder of contractile function. 22 In order to compare both of these possibilities we defined HFpEF as a limitation of exercise with an unequivocally cardiac cause as assessed by VOmax rather than using resting diastolic parameters to avoid biasing our mechanistic studies to a select group of patients with HFpEF.

Little attention has been directed to changes in systolic and diastolic function during dynamic exercise which is when the majority of patients experience most severe symptoms. In one study ten patients with HFpEF were assessed with invasive pressure volume loops and compared with age matched controls. 23 The former had increased arterial elastance a measure of the stiffness of the entire arterial tree and increased LV end systolic elastance a measure of the stiffness of the ventricle during systole and the relatively load independent measure of the contractile state of the left ventricle. 24 Whilst diastolic abnormalities were not universally present in patients at rest marked differences appeared during handgrip exercise. The rate of LV active relaxation increased in healthy subjects but it slowed in patients. 25 Another study from the same group exercise related symptoms in Afro Caribbean hypertensive patients appeared to be strongly associated with chronotropic incompetence and an inadequate vasodilator reserve on exercise. 26 

The present study examined the patho physiological mechanisms and predictors of exercise limitation in a substantially larger series of patients during a much more physiologically relevant form of exercise dynamic leg exercise . There were marked dynamic abnormalities in both contractile and diastolic function of the left ventricle and a lower peak exercise HR in patients. The independent predictors of impaired exercise capacity were abnormal ventricular arterial coupling on exercise a reduced HR response on exercise and a paradoxical slowing of the rate of LV active relaxation on exercise manifest as a prolongation of nTTPF . Despite the relative robustness of these observations deciding whether these changes are adaptive or maladaptive remains challenging. The independent value of an impaired chronotropic response in predicting exercise capacity in HFpEF exemplifies this challenge. For example VOmax is largely determined by cardiac output on exercise and the latter is simply the product of HR and SV. On this basis the detrimental consequecnes of an impaired HR appear plausible. However in the setting of a profound slowing of active relaxation and increased LV passive diastolic stiffness a longer diastolic filling period might be expected to be beneficial both by increasing SV and reducing the cardiac energy load. This in part explains the efficacy of blocker therapy in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy a classic cause of HFpEF. 27 The latter also seems plausible since increasing heart rate by atrial pacing has been shown to reduce supine resting stroke volume and cardiac output in patients with HFpEF. 28 Nevertheless despite a longer diastolic filling time the relative change in SV was lower in our patients during sub maximal exercise. However this failure to increase cardiac workload through limiting HR may represent a strategy of energetic parsimony in a heart with limited energy reserves. Finally an alternative explanation is that an inadequate chronotropic response is simply a consequence and or contributor to heart failure. 29 Such incompetence is typically present in systolic heart failure and is in part a manifestation of impaired vagal tone. 30 Clearly it will be important to undertake further studies to assess whether heart rate plays a causal role in exercise limitation in HFpEF because if so this may be amenable to rate responsive pacing.

The same challenges arise when interpreting the role of an impairment of vasculo ventricular coupling in HFpEF. The patients in this study had a history of hypertension but were well treated with antihypertensives in most cases including vasodilators therefore resting blood pressure and arterial elastance were not significantly higher than in the control group. Consistent with prior studies 31 at rest LV end systolic elastance a measure of contractility or systolic stiffness tended to be higher in patients although this did not reach significance. The increase in arterial elastance during exercise tended to be greater in patients vs. controls presumably reflecting a greater increase in large artery stiffness . However whilst left ventricular end systolic elastance almost doubled during exercise in controls the increase was only 35 in patients hence VVC reduced by 33 during exercise in controls but was unchanged in patients. These findings indicate a blunting of the physiological increase in the contractile state of the left ventricle on exercise. As with heart rate these changes may be interpreted to be either maladaptive or adaptive. A failure to adequately augment contractile function against a high relative load of disease and hence a failure to optimise cardiac energetic efficiency might be considered contributory to HFpEF. On the other hand a smaller increment in LV end systolic elastance will reduce the absolute increase in energy demand in an already energy constrained heart at the cost of an impaired dynamic increase in cardiac output.

Integrating these observations we speculate that dynamic energy impairment may account for the slowing of LV active relaxation on exercise as well as the failure of LV contractile function to increase. To increase the generalisability of this hypothesis we avoided positively biasing our study by excluding patients with established causes of cardiac energy deficiency ischemic heart disease and diabetes 32 33 . Nevertheless the PCr ATP ratio was still substantially reduced in HFpEF patients vs controls at rest. The lower PCr ATP ratio in patients indicates a reduction of high energy phosphates reserve at rest. 34 35 Although the time required for acquisition of Cardiac MRS signals precluded the measurement of high energy phosphate status on exercise it is likely that any basal energetic impairment will be exacerbated dynamically. This exacerbation of dynamic energetic impairment would explain the prolongation of the energy demanding active relaxation as manifest by nTTPF. Moreover the lower hearts rates and lesser increases in LV end systolic elastance may represent strategies to limit dynamic cardiac energy demands. The cause for this resting energy deficit may relate to insulin resistance 36 to impaired mitochondrial function as a result of ageing 37 and to neuroendocrine activation and aberrant substrate metabolism. 38 Such observations provide a rationale to assess the therapeutic value of metabolic agents that increase cardiac energetic status by altering cardiac substrate use 39 . These agents have shown promise in patients with systolic heart failure. 40 

The radionuclide exercise protocol involved asking subjects to maintain a HR which was 50 of HR reserve above their resting HR. Since this HR reserve was calibrated to peak HR rate the absolute workload in patients was lower. To have compared patients at the same workload would be inappropriate since this would represent a higher relative workload in patients. Moreover most changes in SV occur in the first part of exercise with subsequent increases in cardiac output being principally due to increases in HR. 41 A small proportion of patients were on blockers which may have affected their cardiovascular response to exercise however when these patients were excluded from the analysis the findings and the level of significance remained unchanged. In addition some patients were on calcium blockers however these were all peripherally acting dihydropyridines for hypertension and therefore are not expected to affect the myocardium. Ideally we would have liked to measure cardiac energetics during exercise however cardiac MRS studies during exercise is currently quite challenging more so if we tried to replicate the same dynamic leg exercise in the confinement of a MR scanner. MRS and Radionuclide studies also require a regular rhythm thus patients with atrial fibrillation were excluded from the study. In contrast the strength of radionuclide studies is their increasing temporal resolution at higher heart rates. This obviates the confounding E A fusion as is frequently experienced with exercise echocardiography. Radionuclide studies are thus not subject to systematically biasing mechanistic HFpEF towards a subgroup of patients without E A fusion.

HFpEF patients have abnormal resting cardiac energetic status which when exacerbated dynamically may contribute to the abnormal active relaxation on exercise and to a failure to increase LV end systolic elastance. In addition chronotropic response was markedly impaired on exercise in patients. The independent predictors of exercise capacity in patients with HFpEF are exercise induced changes in active relaxation heart rate and ventricular arterial coupling.

A study was carried out to establish a causative role for energy deficiency and to evaluate the impact of perhexiline on cardiac energy status in HCM.

The study was approved by the South Birmingham Research Ethics Committee and the investigation conforms with the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki. All study participants provided written informed consent. The study was a randomized double blind placebo controlled parallel group design of minimum 3 months duration. represents a flow chart of the study. The pre defined primary end point was peak oxygen consumption peak VO2 . Pre defined secondary end points were symptomatic status resting myocardial energetics PCr ATP ratio and diastolic function at rest and during exercise nTTPF . 33 controls of similar age and gender distribution were recruited for comparison with baseline data of HCM patients. All controls had no history or symptoms of any cardiovascular disease with normal ECG and echocardiogram LVEF 55 .

Patients were recruited from dedicated cardiomyopathy clinics at The Heart Hospital University College London Hospitals London and Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham UK between 2006 and 2008. Inclusion criteria were 18 to 80 years old symptomatic HCM patients predominant symptom breathlessness in sinus rhythm with reduced peak VO2 

This was performed using a Schiller CS 200 Ergo Spiro exercise machine which was calibrated before every study. Subjects underwent spirometry and this was followed by symptom limited erect treadmill exercise testing using a standard ramp protocol with simultaneous respiratory gas analysis Bruce R A McDonough J R. Stress testing in screening for cardiovascular disease. Bull N Y Acad Med 1969 45 12 1288 1305. Davies N J Denison D M. The measurement of metabolic gas exchange and minute volume by mass spectrometry alone. Respir Physiol 1979 36 2 261 267 . Peak oxygen consumption peak VO2 was defined as the highest VO2 achieved during exercise and was expressed in ml min kg.

All HCM patients filled in Minnesota Living with heart failure questionnaire and were also assessed for NHYA class.

Echocardiography was performed with participants in the left lateral decubitus position with a Vivid 7 echocardiographic machine GE Healthcare and a 2.5 MHz transducer. Resting scans were acquired in standard apical 4 chamber and apical 2 chamber. LV volumes were obtained by biplane echocardiography and LVEF was derived from a modified Simpson s formula Lang R M Bierig M Devereux R B et al. Recommendations for chamber quantification a report from the American Society of Echocardiography s Guidelines and Standards Committee and the Chamber Quantification Writing Group developed in conjunction with the European Association of Echocardiography a branch of the European Society of Cardiology. J Am Soc Echocardiogr 2005 18 12 1440 1463. Pulse wave doppler sample volume was used to assess resting LVOTO gradient.

Diastolic filling were assessed by equilibrium R wave gated blood pool scintigraphy using a standard technique at rest and during graded semi erect exercise on a cycle ergometer Atherton J J Moore T D Lele S S et al. Diastolic ventricular interaction in chronic heart failure. Lancet 1997 349 9067 1720 1724 Lele S S Macfarlane D Morrison S Thomson H Khafagi F Frenneaux M. Determinants of exercise capacity in patients with coronary artery disease and mild to moderate systolic dysfunction. Role of heart rate and diastolic filling abnormalities. Eur Heart J 1996 17 2 204 212 . Peak left ventricular filling rate in terms of end diastolic count per second EDC s and time to peak filling normalised for R R interval nTTPF in milliseconds were measured at rest and during exercise 50 of heart rate reserve . The validity of these radionuclide measures of diastolic filling at high heart rates has been established previously Atherton et al. and Lele et al. see above .

In vivo myocardial energetics were measured using a MRS at 3 Tesla Phillips Achieva 3T scanner Shivu G N Abozguia K Phan T T Ahmed I Henning A Frenneaux M. 31 P magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure in vivo cardiac energetics in normal myocardium and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Experiences at 3T. Eur J Radiol 2008 . A java magnetic resonance user interface v3.0 jMRUI was used for analysis see Naressi A Couturier C Castang I de Beer R Graveron Demilly D. Java based graphical user interface for MRUI a software package for quantitation of in vivo medical magnetic resonance spectroscopy signals. Comput Biol Med 2001 31 4 269 286 . PCr and ATP peaks was used to determine the PCr ATP ratio which is a measure of the cardiac energetic state Neubauer S Krahe T Schindler R et al. 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy in dilated cardiomyopathy and coronary artery disease. Altered cardiac high energy phosphate metabolism in heart failure. Circulation 1992 86 6 1810 1818 . Data were analyzed by an investigator who was blinded to the participants clinical status. Carmeo Rao ratio was used to assess signal to noise ratio. A typical example of cardiac 31P MRS spectra from a patient with HCM is shown in .

Following baseline studies patients were randomized in a double blind fashion to receive either perhexiline n 25 or placebo n 21 100 mg OD. Serum perhexiline levels were obtained at 1 and 4 weeks after initiation of the drug. Dose adjustments were advised by an unblinded physician according to serum level to achieve therapeutic level and to avoid drug toxicity. Identical dosage adjustments were also made for randomly allocated placebo treated patients by the unblinded observer to ensure that blinding of the investigators was maintained. At the end of study patients were re evaluated as described earlier.

Data were analyzed using SPSS ver. 15.0 for Window and Microsoft Office Excel 2007 and expressed as Mean Standard Deviation SD . Comparison of continuous variables between Perhexiline and Placebo baseline data were determined by unpaired Student s t test 2 tail if variables were normally distributed and the Mann Whitney U test if the data were non normally distributed. ANCOVA with baseline values as covariates was performed to test for the significance of differences in the perhexiline versus placebo group after treatment. For the primary end point the sample size required to detect a change in peak Vo2 of 3 ml kg min versus placebo group with a power of 90 and probability of 5 is 44. 30 patients will be required to identify a 5 change in cardiac PCr ATP ratio with a power of 90 and a p value of 

The characteristics and treatment of participants are shown in Table 4 below. Vo refers to peak oxygen consumption ACE refers to angiotensin converting enzyme and ARB refers to angiotensin II receptor blockers.

The clinical characteristics and cardiopulmonary exercise test results of all the HCM patients and controls are shown in Table 4. The groups were well matched with respect to age and gender. Heart rate was lower in the HCM group compared to controls due to medication use beta blockers and or calcium channel blockers .

The resting cardiac PCr ATP ratio was lower in HCM patients than in controls 1.28 0.01 vs 2.26 0.02 p

The perhexiline and placebo groups were well matched see Table 4 . Only one patient on placebo did not complete the study due to poor compliance. Side effects were restricted to transient nausea n 3 and dizziness n 2 in the perhexiline group and transient nausea n 2 and headache n 1 in the placebo group during the first week of treatment. There were no deaths during the study period.

The PCr ATP ratio increased with perhexiline 1.27 0.02 to 1.73 0.02 as compared with placebo 1.29 0.01 to 1.23 0.01 p 0.003 see . The mean Cramer Rao ratios for PCr and ATP were 7.5 and 10.8 respectively. The effect of perhexiline on PCr ATP ratio remained significant after inclusion of the 3 patients with Cramer Rao ratios 20 from the analysis p 0.02 .

Whereas the placebo group showed similar prolongation of nTTPF during exercise before and after therapy 0.17 0.004 to 0.35 0.005 nTTPF 0.18 0.006 sec and 0.23 0.006 to 0.35 0.005 sec nTTPF 0.12 0.006 sec respectively in the perhexiline group there was a substantial improvement on therapy with nTTPF at rest and exercise similar 0.19 0.003 to 0.19 0.004 sec nTTPF 0.00 0.003 sec p 0.03 between the perhexiline and placebo response see .

More patients in the perhexiline group than in the placebo group had improvements in NYHA classification 67 percent vs. 30 percent and fewer had worsening 8 percent vs. 20 percent p

Peak Vat baseline was similar in the perhexiline and placebo groups Table 4 . After treatment Peak Vfell by 1.23 ml kg min in the placebo group from 23.56 0.27 to 22.32 0.27 ml kg min but increased by 2.09 ml kg min in the perhexiline group from 22.2 0.2 to 24.29 0.2 ml kg min p 0.003 see .

The study indicates that patients with symptomatic HCM manifest a cardiac energy defect at rest reduced PCr ATP ratio . This defect was accompanied by a slowing of the energy requiring early diastolic LV active relaxation during exercise prolongation of nTTPF . The metabolic modulator perhexiline resulted in significant myocardial energy augmentation. Supporting a causative role for energy deficiency in the pathophysiology of HCM this energy augmentation was accompanied by striking normalisation of HCM s characteristic paradoxical nTTPF prolongation in exercise. These biochemical and physiological improvements translated into significant subjective NYHA classification and QoL score and objective V clinical benefits in symptomatic HCM patients already on optimal medical therapy see .

