---

title: Processes for preparing carbon fibers using gaseous sulfur trioxide
abstract: Disclosed herein are processes for preparing carbonized polymers, such as carbon fibers, comprising: sulfonating a polymer with a sulfonating agent that comprises SOgas to form a sulfonated polymer; treating the sulfonated polymer with a heated solvent, wherein the temperature of said solvent is at least 95° C.; and carbonizing the resulting product by heating it to a temperature of 500-3000° C.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09228276&OS=09228276&RS=09228276
owner: Dow Global Technologies LLC
number: 09228276
owner_city: Midland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
This application is a 35 USC 371 national phase filing of PCT US2013 049189 filed Jul. 3 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Application No. 61 670 810 filed Jul. 12 2012.

This invention was made under a NFE 10 02991 between The Dow Chemical Company and UT Batelle LLC operating and management Contractor for the Oak Ridge National Laboratory operated for the United States Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The world production of carbon fiber in 2010 was 40 kilo metric tons KMT and is expected to grow to 150 KMT in 2020. Industrial grade carbon fiber is forecasted to contribute greatly to this growth wherein low cost is critical to applications. The traditional method for producing carbon fibers relies on polyacrylonitrile PAN which is solution spun into fiber form oxidized and carbonized. Approximately 50 of the cost is associated with the polymer itself and solution spinning.

In an effort to produce low cost industrial grade carbon fibers various groups studied alternative precursor polymers and methods of making the carbon fibers. Many of these efforts were directed towards the sulfonation of polyethylene and the conversion of the sulfonated polyethylene to carbon fiber. But the methods and resulting carbon fibers are inadequate for at least two reasons. First the resulting carbon fibers suffer from inter fiber bonding. Second the resulting carbon fibers have physical properties that are inadequate.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 070 446 described a process of sulfonating high density polyethylene using chlorosulfonic acid Examples 1 and 2 sulfuric acid Examples 3 and 4 or fuming sulfuric acid Example 5 . Example 5 in this patent used 25 fuming sulfuric acid at 60 C. for two hours to sulfonate high density polyethylene HDPE which was then carbonized. When the inventors used this method to sulfonate linear low density polyethylene LLDPE the resulting fibers suffered from inter filament bonding and poor physical properties. Consequently this method was judged inadequate.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 113 666 made strongly acidic cation exchanging fiber from fibrous polyethylene using sulfur trioxide gas as the sulfonating agent. Since the goal of this patent was to make acidic cation exchanging fiber via gas phase sulfonation the sulfonated fibers were not carbonized.

WO 92 03601 used a concentrated sulfuric acid method described in the U.S. Pat. No. 4 070 446 to convert ultra high molecular weight UHMW polyethylene fibers to carbon fibers. In Example 1 of this application the polymer fibers while under tension were immersed in a 120 C. 98 sulfuric acid bath the temperature of which was raised at a rate of 30 C. per hour to a maximum temperature of 180 C. The sulfonated fibers were then washed with water air dried and then incompletely carbonized at a temperature up to 900 C. Examples 2 and 3 in this application are prophetic and do not contain any data. The sulfonation times and batch process methods disclosed in this reference are inadequate.

In Materials and Manufacturing Processes Vol. 9 No. 2 221 235 1994 and in Processing and Fabrication of Advanced Materials for High Temperature Applications II proceedings of a symposium 475 485 1993 Zhang and Bhat reported a process for the sulfonation of ultra high molecular weight UHMW polyethylene fibers using sulfuric acid. Both papers report the same starting Spectra fibers and the same sulfonation process. The fibers were wrapped on a frame and immersed in 130 140 C. sulfuric acid and the temperature was slowly raised up to 200 C. Successful sulfonation times were between 1.5 and 2 hours. The fibers were removed at discrete intervals and washed with tap water dried in an oven at 60 C. and carbonized in an inert atmosphere at 1150 C. Although good mechanical properties of the carbon fibers were reported by this method an expensive gel spun polymer fiber was utilized and the sulfonation time was inadequate.

In the early 1990s A. J. Pennings et al. Polymer Bulletin 1991 Vol. 25 pages 405 412 Journal of Materials Science 1990 Vol 25 pages 4216 4222 converted a linear low density polyethylene to carbon fiber by immersing fibers into room temperature chlorosulfonic acid for 5 20 hours. This process would be prohibitively expensive from an industrial prospective due to the high cost of chlorosulfonic acid as well as the long reaction times.

In 2002 Leon y Leon International SAMPE Technical Conference Series 2002 Vol. 34 pages 506 519 described a process of sulfonating LLDPE fibers d 0.94 g mL with warmed concentrated HSO. A Two stage sulfonated system was also described wherein relative to the first stage the second sulfonation stage involves a longer residence time at a similar temperature or a larger single stage reactor at a single temperature or b a slightly higher acid concentration at a higher temperature. See page 514. Specific times and temperatures were not disclosed. In this reference tensile properties of the resulting carbon fibers were determined differently than is convention. Cross sectional areas used for tensile testing were calculated from density by pycnometry and weight per unit length measurements pg 516 Table 3 pg 517 . However ASTM method D4018 and C1557 describe that diameters should be measured directly by microscopy or laser diffraction. After adjusting the reported tensile properties using the microscopy measured diameters Table 2 pg 517 new values were determined as follows 

The methods disclosed in this reference produce carbon fibers having inadequate tensile strength and modulus.

In spite of these efforts adequate methods of converting polyethylene based polymer fibers to carbon fiber are still needed. Thus disclosed herein are methods of making carbon fibers from polymer fibers the methods comprising the sulfonation of the polymer fiber subsequent hot solvent treatment of the sulfonated fibers followed by carbonization of the fibers. These methods result in industrial grade carbon fibers having superior properties when compared to those that were not treated with a hot solvent.

In one aspect disclosed herein are processes for preparing carbonized polymers the processes comprising 

The compounds and processes disclosed herein utilize polymeric starting materials. The polymeric starting materials may be in the form of fabrics sheets fibers or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the polymeric starting material is in the form of a fiber and the resulting carbonized polymer is a carbon fiber.

In still another aspect disclosed herein is an apparatus useful in the batch processes described herein.

As mentioned above the sulfonating agent comprises SOgas. If desired pure 99 SOgas may be used. In such cases it should be noted that adding the SOgas too quickly will result in the melting of the polymer which is not desirable. Thus the rate of addition when using pure SOgas is important.

Alternatively the SOgas may be used in combination with one or more carrier gases. Preferably the carrier gas is an inert gas such as air nitrogen carbon dioxide helium neon argon krypton or any other gas that does not impede the sulfonation reaction. Air and nitrogen are preferred for economic reasons.

The ratio of the SOgas to the carrier gas is typically in the range of 1 99 to 99 1 mol percent. More preferably the range is 2 98 to 15 85 or 10 90 to 90 10 or 20 80 to 80 20. Still more preferably the range is 1 99 to 30 70.

The carrier gas or gases should be dry i.e. they have a water content of less than 5 by weight. More preferably the water content is less than 4 less than 3 or less than 2 . More preferably the water content is less than 1 . Dry gas is needed because moisture will react with the SOgas to form HSO which is not desirable. For the same reason the polymer may be dried before it is sulfonated.

The rate of addition of the gases should be controlled in order to maximize the rate of sulfonation while minimizing any potential adverse effects such as melting of the polymer.

The gas or gases may be added to the reaction vessel containing the polymer continuously or it may be added in distinct pulses. Additionally the reaction chamber may be at ambient pressure or a pressure less than or more than ambient pressure.

The reaction temperature for the gas phase sulfonation reaction is typically from 20 C. to 132 C. or any temperature that is below the melting point of the particular polymer at issue . More preferably the temperature is 20 120 C. Cooler reaction temperatures may be used but the properties are diminished and the economics are less favorable. More preferably the reaction temperature is from 30 90 C. Yet still more preferably the temperature is 30 75 C. Still more preferably 50 70 C.

The gas phase sulfonation reaction typically takes 10 seconds to 8 hours to complete. Of course it is known in the art that the sulfonation reaction time is affected by the fiber diameter when a fiber is used crystallinity of the polymer identity and concentration of the co monomer s if present the density of the polymer the concentration of double bonds in the polymer porosity of the polymer the sulfonation temperature and the concentration of the gaseous SO. The optimization of sulfonation temperature SOgas concentration and addition rate and reaction time are within the ability of one having skill in the art.

The sulfonation reaction is normally run at ambient atmospheric pressure. But if desired pressures greater or lesser than ambient pressure may be used.

One method of decreasing sulfonation reaction time is to swell the polymer with suitable solvent before or during the sulfonation reaction. In one embodiment a polymer could be treated with a suitable swelling solvent prior to treatment with SOgas. Alternatively the polymer could be swelled with suitable solvent during the sulfonation step with an emulsion solution or otherwise combination of swelling agent and sulfonating agent. An additional benefit of performing a swelling step or steps before or during sulfonation is a more uniform sulfur distribution across the polymer and consequently enhanced processing conditions and properties.

After the polymer is sulfonated it is treated with a heated solvent. Acceptable temperatures are at least 95 C. More preferably at least 100 C. Still more preferably at least 105 C. or 110 C. Even more preferably at least 115 C. Most preferred is at least 120 C. The maximum temperature is the boiling point of the solvent or 180 C. In one embodiment the temperature of the solvent is 100 180 C. Alternatively the temperature of the solvent is 120 180 C. While temperatures below 120 C. can be used the reaction rate is slower and thus less economical as the throughput of the reaction decreases.

In one embodiment the preferred solvents are polar and or protic. Examples of protic solvents include mineral acids water and steam. HSOis a preferred protic solvent. In one embodiment the heated solvent is HSOat a temperature of 100 180 C. Still more preferably the heated solvent is HSOat a temperature of 120 160 C.

Alternatively the heated solvent may be a polar solvent. Examples of suitable polar solvents include DMSO DMF NMP halogenated solvents of suitable boiling point or combinations thereof. Preferably the heated solvent is a polar solvent at a temperature of 120 160 C.

It should be understood that when polymer fibers are being used the nature of the polymer fibers their diameter tow size crystallinity of the fibers the identity and concentration of the co monomer s if present and the density of the polymer fiber will impact the reaction conditions that are used. Likewise the temperature of the heated solvent used in the heated solvent treatment and the concentration of the HSO if HSOis used also depends on the nature of the polymer fibers their diameter tow size and the crystallinity of the fibers.

Once the sulfonation reaction is completed which means 1 100 of the polymer was sulfonated as determined using thermogravimetric analysis TGA the fibers may be degassed and optionally washed with one or more solvents. If the fiber is degassed any method known in the art may be used. For example the fibers may be subjected to a vacuum or sprayed with a pressurized gas.

If the polymer is washed the washing encompasses rinsing spraying or otherwise contacting the polymer with a solvent or combination of solvents wherein the solvent or combination of solvents is at a temperature of from 100 C. up to 200 C. Preferred solvents include water C Calcohols acetone dilute acid such as sulfuric acid halogenated solvents and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the fibers are washed with water and then acetone. In another embodiment the fibers are washed with a mixture of water and acetone. Once the fibers are washed they may be blotted dry air dried heated using a heat source such as a conventional oven a microwave oven or by blowing heated gas or gases onto the fibers or combinations thereof.

The polymers used herein consist of homopolymers made from polyethylene polypropylene polystyrene and polybutadiene or comprise a copolymer of ethylene propylene styrene and or butadiene. Preferred copolymers comprise ethylene octene copolymers ethylene hexene copolymers ethylene butene copolymers ethylene propylene copolymers ethylene styrene copolymers ethylene butadiene copolymers propylene octene copolymers propylene hexene copolymers propylene butene copolymers propylene styrene copolymers propylene butadiene copolymers styrene octene copolymers styrene hexene copolymers styrene butene copolymers styrene propylene copolymers styrene butadiene copolymers butadiene octene copolymers butadiene hexene copolymers butadiene butene copolymers butadiene propylene copolymers butadiene styrene copolymers or a combination of two or more thereof. Homopolymers of ethylene and copolymers comprising ethylene are preferred. The polymers used herein can contain any arrangement of monomer units. Examples include linear or branched polymers alternating copolymers block copolymers such as diblock triblock or multi block terpolymers graft copolymers brush copolymers comb copolymers star copolymers or any combination of two or more thereof.

The polymer fibers when fibers are used can be of any cross sectional shape such as circular star shaped hollow fibers triangular ribbon etc. Preferred polymer fibers are circular in shape. Additionally the polymer fibers can be produced by any means known in the art such as melt spinning single component bi component or multi component solution spinning electro spinning film casting and slitting spun bond flash spinning and gel spinning. Melt spinning is the preferred method of fiber production.

It must be emphasized that the treatment with a heated solvent is vital to the inventions disclosed herein. As shown below the heated solvent treatment significantly improves the physical properties of the resulting carbon fiber when compared to carbon fibers that were not treated with a heated solvent. Without wishing to be bound to a particular theory it is believed that the heated solvent treatment allows the fibers to undergo crosslinking which improves their physical properties while inhibiting the ability of the fibers to fuse or undergo inter fiber bonding.

And as previously mentioned in some embodiments the sulfonation reaction is not run to completion. Rather after the reaction is 1 99 complete or more preferably 40 99 complete the sulfonation reaction is stopped and then the sulfonation is completed in the hot solvent treatment step when the hot solvent is a mineral acid such as concentrated sulfuric acid. If desired the sulfonation the treatment with a heated solvent and or the carbonization may be performed when the polymer is under tension. The following discussion is based on the use of a polymer fiber also called tow . It is known in the carbon fiber art that maintaining tension helps to control the shrinkage of the fiber. It has also been suggested that minimizing shrinkage during the sulfonation reaction increases the tensile properties of the resulting carbon fiber.

More specifically sulfonic acid groups within sulfonated polyethylene fibers undergo a thermal reaction at ca. 145 C. onset occurring around 120 130 C. evolving SOand HO as products while generating new carbon carbon bonds within the carbon chain. This was verified using Near Edge X Ray Absorption Fine Structure NEXAFS spectroscopy which showed that heating sulfonated polyethylene fibers results in a decrease in C C bonds and an increase in C C single bonds. This result is consistent with the formation of new bonds between previously unbonded C atoms at the expense of C C double bonds. The addition of solvent separates the individual filaments and prevents fiber fusion. See the scheme below which illustrates the generic chemical transformation occurring during the entire process. It should be understood by one skilled in the art that the variety and complexity of other functional groups present at all steps and have been omitted here for the sake of clarity.

It must be emphasized that simply heating the sulfonated fibers in an oven results in a high degree of fiber fusion wherein different fibers fuse or otherwise aggregate such fused fibers tend to be very brittle and to have poor mechanical properties. In contrast the treatment of the sulfonated polymer fibers with a heated solvent results in fibers having significantly less fiber fusion. Such fibers have improved tensile strength and higher elongation to break strain values. It is believed that the role of the solvent is to minimize the inter fiber hydrogen bonding interactions between the surface sulfonic acid groups which thereby prevents inter fiber cross linking and fiber fusion during the hot solvent treatment step. An alternative hypothesis employs the heated solvent to remove low molecular weight sulfonated polymer from the polymer fibers. Without removing this inter fiber byproduct heat treatment imparts similar cross linking and ultimately creates the fusion of fibers.

It is possible that the sulfonation reaction will not go to completion which as is known in the art results in hollow fibers. In such cases using hot sulfuric acid in the hot solvent treatment will continue the sulfonation reaction and drive it towards completion while the thermal reaction is also occurring. In one embodiment of this invention one could produce hollow carbon fibers from this process by reducing the amount of time in the sulfonation chamber the hot sulfuric acid bath or both while still retaining the advantage of producing non fused fibers. If desired adjusting the relative amounts of sulfonation performed in the sulfonation reaction and the hot solvent treatment can be used to alter the physical properties of the resulting carbon fibers.

If desired the sulfonation the treatment with a heated solvent and or the carbonization may be performed when the polymer fiber also called tow is under tension. It is known in the carbon fiber art that maintaining tension helps to control the shrinkage of the fiber. It has also been suggested that minimizing shrinkage during the sulfonation reaction increases the modulus of the resulting carbon fiber.

When using gaseous SOto perform the sulfonation reaction it was discovered that the polymer fiber could be kept under a tension of 0 22 MPa with tensions of up to 16.8 MPa being preferred the treatment with a heated solvent could be conducted while the polymer fiber was under a tension of 0 25 MPa and carbonization could be conducted while the polymer fiber was under a tension of 0 14 MPa. In one embodiment the process was conducted wherein at least one of the three aforementioned steps was conducted under tension. In a more preferred embodiment the sulfonation the treatment with a heated solvent and the carbonization are performed while the polymer fiber is under a tension greater than 1 MPa. As will be readily appreciated it is possible to run the different steps at different tensions. Thus in one embodiment the tension during the carbonization step differs from that in the sulfonation step. It should also be understood that the tensions for each step also depend on the nature of the polymer the size and tenacity of the polymer fiber. Thus the above tensions are guidelines that may change as the nature and size of the fibers change.

The carbonization step is performed by heating the sulfonated and heat treated fibers. Typically the fiber is passed through a tube oven at temperatures of from 500 3000 C. More preferably the carbonization temperature is at least 600 C. In one embodiment the carbonization reaction is performed at temperature in the range of 700 1 500 C. The carbonization step may be performed in a tube oven in an atmosphere of inert gas or in a vacuum. One of skill in the art will appreciate that if desired activated carbon fibers may be prepared using the methods disclosed herein.

In this preferred embodiment the protic and or solvent is DMSO DMF or a mineral acid and or the polyethylene containing polymer fibers are polyethylene homopolymers or polyethylene copolymers that comprise ethylene octene copolymers ethylene hexene copolymers ethylene butene copolymers ethylene propylene copolymers ethylene styrene copolymers ethylene butadiene copolymers or a combination of two or more thereof and or halogenated solvent is a chlorocarbon and or steps a b and c are performed while the polymer preferably a polymer fiber is under a tension greater than 1 MPa.

Even more preferably in this preferred embodiment the protic solvent is a mineral acid that is concentrated sulfuric acid at a temperature of 115 160 C.

With regards to the process of sulfonating the fibers it is possible to use either a batch or continuous method. An example of an apparatus used to perform the batch method may be seen in wherein the apparatus is comprised of a jacketed reaction vessel having a top section B and a bottom section A that are connected via a middle section which may comprise a glass joint not shown septa fitted into a wire pass through both of which are located in the top section B an SOgas inlet and SOgas outlet and an optionally hollow glass rod having a non reactive material such as PTFE or other fluorinated hydrocarbon attached to its distal end and wherein rod is optionally a thermowell. See for an illustration of the polymer fiber going around the non reactive material that is attached to the distal end of the glass rod . The two components of the reaction vessel A and B allow for easy addition and removal of the polymer fiber .

Each end of the polymer fiber is tied knotted or otherwise attached to a thin gauge wire . If desired two different wires may be used or a single wire may be used. When in position for a sulfonation reaction a wire enters the reaction vessel via septa which is located in the wire pass through which is located in top section B. The polymer fiber which is attached to wire is guided down one side of the glass rod around the non reactive end and back up the other side of the glass rod . This end of the polymer fiber is attached to a wire which exits the reaction vessel via a different septa which is located in a wire pass through which is also located in the top section B. If desired tension is then placed on the fiber by addition of weights not shown to the wires exterior to the apparatus .

In the pass through and septa prevent gases or vapors from entering into or escaping from reaction vessel while allowing for tension to be applied to the polymer fiber . Additionally the septa should be non reactive towards all reagents that are used and generated in the sulfonation reaction. Once the polymer fiber is in place and under the desired amount of tension if desired purging with desired atmosphere can be achieved by directing gas flow through inlet and outlet the inlet and outlet may be fitted with a valve and to aide in controlling gas flow. Addition of a sulfur trioxide gas mixture can be achieved by directing flow through the same inlet and outlet with optional valves and . Alternatively the inlet and outlet direction can be reversed such that the inlet is and outlet is .

Upon addition of sulfur trioxide to reaction vessel the gas not shown fills the interior space of the reaction vessel where it contacts and sulfonates the polymer fiber . Unreacted gas and any gaseous or vapor by products then exit the reaction vessel via the SOgas outlet which may be fitted with a valve that allows the operator to turn off the gas flow.

The reaction vessel may be equipped with a jacketing device for heating and or cooling the vessel . In the design shown in heating and cooling is achieved via a jacket which allows for the recirculation of a fluid not shown . The heating or cooling liquid enters the jacket at one point and leaves it at a different point . Points and should be far apart from each other in order to maximize the efficiency of the heating or cooling of vessel and the contents therein. Optionally a glass rod may be hollow allowing for a thermocouple to be used to directly monitor the temperature of the internal gas. All materials used to make the reaction vessel should be made of glass or any material that does not react with the SOgas sulfuric acid or any by products formed during the reaction.

When the reaction is complete the gas is removed from the reaction vessel by blowing inert gas and or air through gas inlet or gas outlet until the SOis removed. Alternatively a vacuum source not shown may be attached to gas inlet or gas outlet and the reaction vessel may be evacuated. Then an inert gas and or air may be introduced into the reaction vessel via gas inlet or outlet .

In the following examples tensile properties young s modulus tensile strength strain elongation at break for single filaments fibers were determined using a dual column Instron model 5965 following procedures described in ASTM method C1557. Fiber diameters were determined with both optical microscopy and laser diffraction before fracture.

A copolymer of ethylene and 0.33 mol 1 octene 1.3 weight having M 58 800 g mol and M M 2.5 was spun into a continuous tow of filaments. The filaments had diameter of 15 16 microns a tenacity of 2 g denier and crystallinity of 57 . A 1 meter sample of 3000 filaments was tied through the glass apparatus and placed under 400 g tension 7 MPa . The glass apparatus was heated to 70 C. and 2.5 7 SOin argon was fed into the reactor at a rate of 400 500 mL min. After 3 hr the flow was turned off the fiber was removed washed with water acetone and blotted dry. The sulfonated fiber tow was then placed into a tube furnace under 250 g 4.5 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 47 GPa a tensile strength of 0.40 GPa an elongation to break of 0.86 and a diameter of 12.6 microns.

The same fiber and reactor was used as in Example 1. The 3000 filament fiber tow was placed under 800 g tension 15 MPa . The glass apparatus was heated to 70 C. and 2.5 7 SOin argon was fed into the reactor at a rate of 400 500 mL min. After 3 hr the temperature was increased to 85 C. and held for 7 min and then increased to 90 C. and held for 5 min. The flow was then turned off the fiber was removed washed with water acetone and blotted dry. The sulfonated fiber tow was then placed into a tube furnace under 250 g 4.5 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 49 GPa a tensile strength of 0.54 GPa an elongation to break of 1.10 and a diameter of 15.1 microns.

The same fiber and reactor was used as in Example 1. The 3000 filament fiber tow was placed under 800 g tension 15 MPa . The glass apparatus was heated to 70 C. and 2.5 7 SOin argon was fed into the reactor at a rate of 400 500 mL min. After 1 hr the tension was changed to 400 g 7 MPa . After 3 hr the flow was turned off the fiber was removed washed with water acetone and blotted dry. The sulfonated fiber tow was then placed into a tube furnace under 250 g 4.5 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 36 GPa a tensile strength of 0.40 GPa an elongation to break of 1.1 and a diameter of 15.1 microns.

The same fiber and reactor was used as in Example 1. The 3000 filament fiber tow was placed under 600 g tension 11 MPa . The glass apparatus was heated to 70 C. and 2.5 7 SOin argon was fed into the reactor at a rate of 400 500 mL min. After 4 hr the flow was turned off the fiber was removed washed with water acetone and blotted dry. The sulfonated fiber tow was then placed into a tube furnace under 250 g 4.5 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 52 GPa a tensile strength of 0.53 GPa an elongation to break of 1.0 and a diameter of 14.3 microns.

Same conditions as reported for Example 4 except the sulfonated fiber tow was placed into a tube furnace under 500 g 9 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 58 GPa a tensile strength of 0.60 GPa an elongation to break of 1.0 and a diameter of 13.6 microns.

The same fiber and reactor was used as in Example 1. The 3000 filament fiber tow was placed under 800 g tension 15 MPa . The glass apparatus was heated to 70 C. and 2.5 7 SOin argon was fed into the reactor at a rate of 400 500 mL min. After 3 hr the flow was turned off the fiber was removed and placed in a similar reactor and tensioned with 600 g 11 MPa . The reactor was filled with 96 HSOand heated to 98 C. and held for 1 hour then heated further to 115 C. and held for an additional hour. The fiber was then removed washed with water acetone and blotted dry. The sulfonated fiber tow was then placed into a tube furnace under 250 g 4.5 MPa tension and heated to 1150 C. over 5 hr under nitrogen. Individual filaments from this tow were tensile tested. The average of 15 filaments provided a Young s modulus of 46 GPa a tensile strength of 0.71 GPa an elongation to break of 1.55 and a diameter of 15 microns.

