---

title: Broad spectrum pro-quorum-sensing molecules as inhibitors of virulence in vibrios
abstract: Using a whole-cell high-throughput screen, eleven molecules were identified that activate quorum sensing (QS). Eight molecules are receptor agonists and three molecules are antagonists of LuxO, the central NtrC-type response regulator that controls the global QS cascade. Pro-QS molecules are used for the development of novel anti-infectives.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573908&OS=09573908&RS=09573908
owner: THE TRUSTEES OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
number: 09573908
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130220
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 603 590 filed Feb. 27 2012 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

This invention was made with government support from NIH 5R01GM0 65859 NIH 5R01AI054442 and NSF MCB 0343821. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Quorum sensing QS is a process of bacterial cell cell communication that relies on the production release detection and response to extracellular signaling molecules called autoinducers. QS allows groups of bacteria to synchronously alter behavior in response to changes in the population density and species composition of the vicinal community. QS controls collective behaviors including bioluminescence sporulation virulence factor production and biofilm formation.

In pathogenic bacteria that cause persistent infections QS commonly activates virulence factor production at high cell density HCD . However in which is the etiological agent of the acute disease cholera production of HapR regulator at HCD represses genes important for virulence factor production and biofilm formation. This peculiar pattern of virulence gene regulation can be understood in terms of the disease. Following successful infection the ensuing diarrhea washes huge numbers of bacteria from the human intestine into the environment. Thus expression of genes for virulence and biofilm formation at low cell density LCD promotes infection while repression of these genes by autoinducers at HCD promotes dissemination. Thus molecules that activate QS have the potential to repress virulence in . March et al reported that pretreatment with commensal over producing the autoinducer CAI 1 increased the survival rate of mice following infection 66 which further supports the idea of QS potentiators as drugs.

Targeting response regulators as a broad spectrum anti infective strategy has been considered challenging because response regulator functions such as phosphorylation and DNA binding are thought to be specific. In spite of this a handful of molecules that inhibit particular response regulator functions have been reported. Three inhibitors have been identified that target non NtrC type response regulators A1gR1 of 50 Wa1R in low GC Gram positive bacteria 51 and DevR in 52 . The molecules function by perturbing phosphorylation A1gR1 and Wa1R and DNA binding DevR . Walrycins molecules that inhibit the phosphorylation of the essential Wa1R response regulator are active in suppressing growth in multiple Gram positive bacteria.

LuxO which is a member of the NtrC family of two component response regulators possesses an N terminal regulatory receiver domain a central ATPase domain AAA type and a C terminal DNA binding domain. Two component signaling TCS proteins are widely distributed in bacteria. In addition to their global importance in microbial physiology the absence of TCSs in mammalian cells makes them attractive drug targets in pathogenic bacteria. Even though significant effort has been devoted to identifying novel TCS inhibitors to date none has been developed into a new class of anti infective. Problems such as undesirable properties associated with lead molecules have been encountered 56 57 . In particular inhibitors that generally target the conserved hydrophobic kinase domains of TCS histidine kinases suffer from drawbacks such as low cell permeability poor selectivity and unfavorable non specific off target effects e.g. membrane damaging 58 59 60 . By contrast approaches to target the sensory domains of histidine kinases have yielded a handful of promising TCS inhibitors. For instance LED209 an antagonist of the QseC histidine kinase which regulates motility and pathogenicity in enterohaemorrhagic reduces virulence in several pathogens both in vitro and in vivo 61 . In addition in inhibitory Agr peptide analogs antagonize the AgrC histidine kinase receptors and block abscess formation in an experimental murine model 62 .

Disclosed herein are novel strategies directed at the activation of quorum sensing in species and particularly thereby inhibiting the virulence of these bacteria and diminishing the likelihood of infection. Because QS controls virulence in many clinically relevant pathogens disrupting QS is viewed as a promising therapeutic strategy for all these pathogens.

Also disclosed are virulence inhibitor molecules that display broad spectrum capability in activation of QS in species that employ LuxO. The strategies disclosed herein exploit pro QS molecules for the development of novel anti infectives. These strategies and the molecules employed inhibit the ATPase activity of NtrC type response regulator. LuxO serves as an example of the NtrC type response regulator.

In a first aspect the invention is a compound from the group consisting of compounds 12 13 14 16 17 and 18 . In a second aspect the invention is a broad spectrum anti virulence composition comprising a compound from the group consisting of compounds 12 13 14 16 17 and 18.

In another aspect the invention is a method for inhibiting virulence of gram negative quorum sensing bacteria that comprise the quorum sensing response regulator LuxO wherein the method comprises contacting the bacteria with a compound from the group consisting of compounds 12 13 14 16 17 and 18. In a particular embodiment the bacteria are or . In an alternative aspect the method for inhibiting virulence of gram negative quorum sensing bacteria that comprise LuxO comprises contacting the bacteria with a compound from the group consisting of compounds 9 10 11 and 15 .

In yet another aspect the invention is a method for prophylactic treatment of a host to inhibit pathogenicity of bacteria that comprise the quorum sensing response regulator LuxO wherein the method comprises administering to the host a compound from the group consisting of compounds 12 13 14 16 17 and 18. In an alternative aspect the method for prophylactic treatment to inhibit bacterial pathogenicity of bacteria that comprise LuxO comprises administering to the host a compound from the group consisting of compounds 9 10 11 and 15.

In another aspect the invention is a method for inhibiting biofilm formation by gram negative quorum sensing bacteria that comprise LuxO wherein the method comprises contacting the bacteria with a compound from the group consisting of compounds 12 13 14 16 17 and 18. In an alternative aspect the method for inhibiting biofilm formation comprises contacting the bacteria that comprise LuxO with a compound from the group consisting of compounds 9 10 11 and 15.

We identified a set of small molecules that activate the QS system of . The QS activating molecules may be classified as either QS receptor agonists or LuxO inhibitors. The LuxO inhibitors identified here function uncompetitively to perturb LuxO ATPase activity. Genetic analysis of LuxO mutants that are insensitive to the inhibitors suggests that the inhibitors interact with a region adjacent to the ATP binding pocket. Using a set of phenotypic assays we showed that the inhibitors broadly activate different QS circuits and in turn repress virulence factor production and reduce cytotoxicity. Because LuxO is conserved among QS circuits the molecules we characterize here are capable of inhibiting HSL based and non HSL based QS systems. Numerous NtrC type proteins homologous to LuxO act in two component signaling systems and their roles in controlling nitrogen metabolism virulence motility and other important processes have been extensively studied 37 . However to the best of our knowledge there exists no previous report of a chemical probe that modulates the activity of a NtrC family response regulator.

The LuxO inhibitors identified here possess certain favorable drug like characteristics potent inhibition water solubility good stability and cell permeability. The molecules also display low host cell cytotoxicity undetectable cytotoxicity at 500 M .

Use of pro QS agents to treat acute infections in which bacteria use QS to repress virulence is a focus of our invention. We show here that our synthetic pro QS molecules reduce virulence by inhibiting LuxO. The invention encompasses use of CAI 1 LuxO inhibitors or other QS activating molecules as prophylactics to prevent or other pathogenic vibrios from initiating the LCD virulence gene expression program that is required for colonization. In this embodiment inhibiting the launch of virulence factors would provide sufficient time for the host immune system to eliminate the pathogen. In contrast to traditional antibiotics that target essential bacterial processes growth is not affected by interfering with QS so development of resistance could potentially be minimized. Thus just as antagonizing QS in bacteria is an alternative to traditional antibiotics so is the use of pro QS agents.

LuxO belongs to the NtrC protein family binding transcriptional activators that rely on ATP hydrolysis to promote open complex formation. Although these broadly active LuxO inhibitors are not broad spectrum NtrC type inhibitors our invention encompasses use of the LuxO inhibitors as preliminary scaffolds for building a general NtrC type response regulator RR inhibitor. Structure activity relationships of the thio azauracil core combined with simultaneously screening for molecules that inhibit LuxO and other NtrC type response regulators are envisioned.

The central ATPase module of the NtrC type RR is classified as AAA type 63 . This module is present in multiple domains of life. For example AAA ATPases are important in functions including protein unfolding and degradation ClpXP FtsH and p97 organelle function and maintenance PEX1 and VPS4 replication and recombination RuvBL1 and helicases and intracellular transport Dyneins . Some eukaryotic AAA ATPases have been proposed to be drug targets 64 . Therefore we contemplate that the thio azauracil core discovered here can be developed into an inhibitor of AAA ATPases across different domains.

The following examples set forth the general procedures involved in practicing the present invention. To the extent that specific materials are mentioned it is merely for purposes of illustration and is not intended to limit the invention.

All strains are derivatives of wild type C6706str 67 . All strains are derivatives of wild type BB120 68 strains were provided by Dr. Linda McCarter. S17 1 pir DH5 and Top10 were used for cloning. The relevant genotypes of all plasmids and strains are provided in Table 1. Unless specified and were grown in LB medium at 37 C. and 30 C. with shaking respectively. and were grown in LM medium at 30 C. with shaking. Colony opacity of was monitored on LM with 2 agar. Unless specified antibiotic concentrations are as follows ampicillin gentamicin and kanamycin 100 mg L chloramphenicol and tetracycline 10 mg L streptomycin 5 g L polymyxin B 50 U L.

The 90 000 molecule library was supplied by the High Throughput Screening Resource Center of the Rockefeller University. The strains BH1578 cqsA luxS pBB1 and BH1651 luxOpBB1 were grown overnight in LB medium with tetracycline and diluted 25 fold. The diluted cultures were dispensed into 384 well microtiter plates containing screening molecules that were previously added to each well. The final concentration of each compound was 20 M. Light production was measured on an Envison Multilabel Reader after 6 hour incubation at 30 C. without shaking. Compounds that induced light production 100 fold were reordered from suppliers and tested.

Overnight cultures of reporter strains were grown in LM medium for or LB with tetracycline for carrying pBB1 and diluted 20 fold with sterile medium. Bioluminescence and ODwere measured in an Envison Multilabel Reader following 4 hour incubation at 30 C. with shaking. Synthetic molecules were dissolved in DMSO and supplied at varying concentrations to the reporter strains. DMSO was used as the negative control.

The open reading frame encoding LuxO D47E was amplified by PCR and cloned into plasmid pET28B that had been previously digested with NdeI and BamHI. The resulting plasmid was transformed into BL21 Gold DE3 resulting in strain WN133. Strain WN133 was grown in LB with kanamycin at 30 C. with shaking until the ODof the culture reached 1.0. IPTG was added at a final concentration of 200 M and the culture was incubated for an additional 4 hours at 30 C. with shaking. Cells were harvested by centrifugation suspended in lysis buffer 20 mM Sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 0.5 M NaCl 10 glycerol and 5 mM imidazole and lysed using a Cell Cracker. Soluble materials were loaded onto a HiTrap chelating column charged with nickel the column was washed extensively with lysis buffer and His tagged LuxO D47E enzyme was eluted using a linear gradient of increasing concentration of imidazole dissolved in lysis buffer. Fractions containing LuxO D47E were pooled and concentrated with an Amicon Untra 15 filter. Protein was snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. Protein concentrations were determined by UV absorbance at 280 nm. NtrC and other LuxO D47E variants were purified using the same method.

A modified coupled enzyme assay was used to measure the rate of ATP hydrolysis by LuxO D47E 42 . Briefly ADP released from ATP by LuxO D47E is reacted with phosphoenolpyruvate PEP to form pyruvate using pyruvate kinase PK . Pyruvate is reacted with NADH to form NAD and lactate using lactate dehydrogenase LDH . The rate of NAD production is followed at 340 nm using a spectrophotometer. ATP hydrolysis rates were inferred from the absorbance change observed 6220 Mcmfor NADH 42 . The rates of ATP hydrolysis by LuxO D47E were measured in reactions containing 100 mM Sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 5 mM MgCl 0.2 mM NADH 1 mM PEP 5 20 units of PK LDH mix Sigma and 10 M LuxO D47E. ATP and inhibitors were added to the reactions at indicated concentrations. The rate of ATP hydrolysis was monitored for 5 minutes. Data were fitted using Graphpad Prism to obtain the kinetic parameters. Percent ATPase inhibition was calculated using the following formula 

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays to study LuxO and Qrr promoter DNA interactions were performed as described in Tu K C et al. 69 . Fluorescence anisotropy assays using LuxO D47E were modified from Pompeani A J et al. 70 .

The luxOallele was removed from plasmids harbored in WN133 with the enzymes XbaI and BamHI and ligated into pEVS143 71 that had been previously digested with AvrII and BamHI. The luxOreading frame of the resulting plasmid WN2029 was randomly mutated using the GeneMorph II Random Mutagenesis Kit. The resulting mutagenized luxOplasmid library was introduced into a luxO strain by conjugation. Individual colonies from this luxOmutant pool were arrayed into 96 well plates containing LB medium with 100 M compound 12. The luxO strain harboring non mutated luxOwas grown in the absence of compound 12 to provide the reference for background light production. Following overnight static incubation at 30 C. clones that produced light comparable to the background were selected and re tested in the presence and absence of compounds 11 and 12. DNA sequencing was used to determine the alterations in luxOfor inhibitor resistant mutants. Site directed mutageneses were performed with the QuikChange II XL Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit to uncouple multiple mutations.

Overnight cultures of the luxOstrain were diluted 1000 fold in AKI medium containing the indicated concentrations of compound 12. The cultures were statically incubated at 37 C. for 4 hours and subsequently shaken for 4 more hours at 37 C. Cells were collected by centrifugation TcpA from different samples was analyzed by Western blot as previously described 17 . Overnight cultures of the luxO strain LM4476 were washed and diluted 50 fold in LM medium with 10 mM MgCland 10 mM sodium oxalate in the presence of the indicated concentrations of compound 12. The cultures were grown for 4 hours with shaking at 37 C. Viable cell count showed that all cultures contained 1 10CFU mL after incubation. Cells were collected by centrifugation and the secreted and cytoplasmic VopD from different samples were analyzed by Western blot as described in Henke J M Bassler BL 47 .

Cytotoxicity assays were modified as described in Ono T et al 48 . HeLa cells 2 10cells well were cultured for 48 hours at 37 C. and 5 COin a 96 well plate containing DMEM with 10 fetal bovine serum prior to infection. strains were grown as described above for VopD analysis and used in the infection assays. Immediately prior to infection DMSO or compound 12 500 M was added to the HeLa. Serially diluted bacteria were added to HeLa cells at multiplicity of infection of 10. Lactate dehydrogenase release from HeLa cells was assayed between 1 4 hours after infection using the CytoTox 96 nonradioactive cytotoxicity kit Promega .

NMR spectra were recorded using a Bruker Avance II spectrometer 500 MHz for H 125 MHz for C equipped with either a H optimized TCI H C N cryoprobe or a C optimized dual C H cryoprobe. Chemical shifts are reported in parts per million ppm and were calibrated according to residual solvent. High resolution mass spectral analysis was performed using an Agilent 1200 series electrospray ionization time of flight ESI TOF mass spectrometer in the positive ESI mode.

Unless otherwise noted all reactions were performed in flame dried glassware under an atmosphere of nitrogen. All chemicals purchased from commercial vendors were used without further purification. Anhydrous Sure Seal solvents were purchased from commercial vendors.

Flash chromatography was performed using C18 Sep Pak Cartridges from Waters Corporation. Analytical thin layer chromatography was carried out using Silica G TLC plates 200 m with UVfluorescent indicator SORBENT Technologies and visualization was performed by staining anisaldehyde ceric ammonium molybdate or ninhydrin and or by absorbance of UV light.

To 2 2 dimethylpropan 1 ol 260 L 2.4 mmol and EtN 335 L 2.4 mmol in CHCl 4.8 mL at 0 C. was added chloroacetyl chloride 190 L 2.4 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir with warming to ambient temperature over 4 h. and was quenched with HO 20 mL extracted with CHCl 2 20 mL washed with 1N HCl 20 mL sat. NaHCO 20 mL brine 20 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting colorless oil was used without further purification. To the crude neopentyl 2 chloroacetate 395 mg 2.4 mmol in EtOH 2.4 mL at room temperature was added sodium 3 5 dioxo 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1 2 4 triazine 6 thiolate freshly prepared from 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 348 mg 2.4 mmol and NaOH 115 mg 2.9 mmol in HO 4.8 mL at room temperature for 1 h. . The resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 40 C. for 14 h. and was diluted with HO 5 mL before loading directly onto a 10 g C18 Sep Pak Cartridge and elution with HO 25 mL followed by 1 1 HO MeOH 25 mL to yield neopentyl 2 3 5 dioxo 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl thio acetate as a white solid 127 mg 19 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 3.81 s 2H 3.78 s 2H 0.92 s 9H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.3 167.1 161.6 145.4 75.9 32.4 32.1 26.8. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 274.0862 observed 274.0860 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from 2 methylpropan 1 ol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 21 mg 12 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 3.90 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.77 s 2H 1.92 septet J 6.7 Hz 1H 0.92 d J 6.7 Hz 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.2 166.0 160.4 145.6 72.8 32.2 29.1 19.5. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 260.0705 observed 260.0701 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from cyclobutylmethanol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 16 mg 9 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 4.08 d J 6.5 Hz 2H 3.31 s 2H 2.67 2.58 m 1H 2.08 1.98 m 2H 1.96 1.71 m 4H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.4 167.1 161.5 145.5 70.3 35.6 32.2 25.7 19.3. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 272.0705 observed 272.0700 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from cyclopropylmethanol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 12 mg 7 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 3.80 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.80 s 2H 1.04 0.93 m 1H 0.45 0.38 m 2H 0.18 0.10 m 2H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.4 167.2 161.6 145.5 71.5 32.3 10.8 3.8. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 258.0549 observed 258.0553 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from 2 methyl 1 butanol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 47 mg 21 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 4.03 3.89 m 2H 3.75 s 2H 1.74 1.63 m 1H 1.46 1.36 m 1H 1.22 1.11 m 1H 0.92 0.89 m 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.4 167.2 161.6 145.5 71.2 35.6 32.2 27.1 16.8 11.7. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 274.0862 observed 274.0858 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from trimethylsilyl methanol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 45 mg 23 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 3.83 s 2H 3.76 s 2H 0.06 s 9H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 172.0 167.0 161.4 145.5 60.1 32.0 3.0. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOSSi 290.0631 observed 290.0627 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from 3 3 dimethylbutan 2 ol and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 45 mg 20 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 4.66 q J 6.4 Hz 1H 3.74 s 2H 1.14 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.9 s 9H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 170.9 166.9 161.4 145.5 80.6 35.3 32.4 26.2 15.2. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 288.1018 observed 288.1011 M H .

Prepared following the general procedure from 2 methylpropan 1 amine and 6 mercapto 1 2 4 triazine 3 5 2H 4H dione 27 mg 13 yield over two steps . H NMR 500 MHz d4 MeOH 4.56 s 2H 3.64 s 2H 3.05 2.92 m 2H 1.77 septet J 6.6 Hz 1H 0.90 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 0.87 d J 6.6 Hz 3H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 171.3 170.8 166.8 159.6 145.9 55.1 48.4 48.1 33.7 29.8 20.7 20.6. HRMS ESI TOF calculated for CHNOS 259.0865 observed 259.0864 M H .

We identified small molecules that activate QS in in order to induce the HCD state and thus repress virulence factor production. We developed a whole cell high throughput screen that relies on QS dependent induction of bioluminescence lux in 22 . We exploited mutants genetically locked into the LCD state and carrying the lux operon to screen for molecules that induce light production indicating that they activate QS responses. We performed the screen on two different LCD mutants. The first mutant lacks the two autoinducer synthases CqsA and LuxS. Therefore both CqsS and LuxPQ QS receptors function as kinases and constitutively phosphorylate LuxO resulting in repression of HapR. No transcription of the lux operon occurs and this strain is dark. The second strain carries the luxOallele. This luxO mutation mimics LuxO P rendering LuxO constitutively active 23 38 . Therefore HapR is repressed and the strain is dark. We identified two classes of molecules that could induce light production. Class 1 molecules induce bioluminescence in the double synthase mutant but not in the luxOmutant. These compounds act as QS receptor agonists. Class 2 molecules induce bioluminescence in both the double synthase mutant and the luxOmutant. Class 2 compounds likely target QS components that lie downstream of the receptors. We screened 90 000 molecules and identified eight Class 1 compounds and three Class 2 compounds . The ECof Class 1 compounds are comparable to that of CAI 1 and generally lower than those of Class 2 compounds . These differences support the idea that the two classes of molecules potentiate QS responses by distinct mechanisms. None of the compounds affected cell growth.

To determine which QS component each compound acts on we first tested the eight Class 1 compounds against mutants that lack only the CqsS receptor or only the LuxPQ receptor. All eight Class 1 compounds induced light production in the luxPQ strain but not the cqsS strain hence these eight molecules function as CqsS agonists . None has structural homology to the native CAI 1 autoinducer 17 18 39 40 .

The three Class 2 compounds that activate QS in both of the LCD screening strains appeared likely to act downstream of the QS receptors. These three compounds are structurally homologous therefore it appeared likely that they function by an identical mechanism. We focused on the compound displaying the highest potency i.e. compound 11 . Class 2 compounds could potentially target one or more of the QS cytoplasmic components that function downstream of the receptors LuxO Hfq and or Qrr1 4. We reasoned that if these compounds interfere with LuxO or transcription of qrr1 4 would decrease in the presence of the inhibitors. By contrast if the compounds target Hfq or act directly on Qrr1 4 they should not affect qrr1 4 transcription. Results showed GFP production from a qrr4 gfp transcriptional fusion decreased 3 fold when the luxOstrain was treated with compound 11 . This result suggested that compound 11 targets either LuxO or . If the target of compound 11 is transcription of other dependent genes should be affected when is treated with the compound. We examined transcription of the dependent gene vpsR 41 and found that it did not change significantly in the presence of compound 11. These results suggested that compound 11 targets LuxO.

The three identified Class 2 compounds share a 5 thio 6 azauracil core and only their side chains vary . In addition several 5 thio 6 azauracil analogs with other modifications on their side chains displayed weak or no activity in the screen. Therefore differences in the hydrocarbon side chains must be responsible for the corresponding differences in potency with compounds harboring branched side chains displaying greater potency i.e. compound 11 . To explore the relationship between structure and activity we synthesized a focused library of compounds bearing the conserved 5 thio 6 azauracil core and we altered the branching in the side chains. We measured activities using bioluminescence in the luxOmutant. Several of the side chain modifications decreased potency as shown by an increase in EC . However increasing steric bulk by incorporation of a tert butyl carbinol side chain led to a 3 fold enhancement in potency i.e. compound 12 . Thus the activity of the 5 thio 6 azauracil compounds within this series is highly sensitive to the structural features of the alkyl side chain. In the focused group of molecules we investigated a bulky hydrophobic terminal t butyl moiety is optimal.

NtrC type response regulators including LuxO possess three biochemical activities phosphoryl group accepting activity DNA binding activity and ATP hydrolyzing activity 36 . We investigated which of these activities is inhibited by compounds 11 and 12. First using whole cell bioluminescence assays we found that both compounds activate QS in strains expressing either wild type LuxO or LuxO D47E . Wild type LuxO is activated by phosphorylation via the QS cascade and the LuxO D47E variant which mimics LuxO P while not phosphorylated is constitutively active. Because both wild type LuxO and LuxO D47E are vulnerable to inhibition it cannot be the ability of LuxO to participate in phosphorylation or dephosphorylation that is impaired by compounds 11 and 12.

To examine if compounds 11 and 12 affect LuxO binding to DNA we used electrophoretic mobility shift and fluorescence anisotropy assays to probe LuxO interaction with qrr promoter DNA. No significant change in LuxO D47E binding to qrr4 promoter DNA occurred in the presence of the inhibitors as judged by mobility shift . Quantitative fluorescent anisotropy assays revealed that in the presence and absence of the LuxO inhibitors LuxO D47E interacts with the qrr4 promoter DNA with an identical binding constant 300 nM . Thus binding to DNA is not altered by the inhibitors.

Finally we examined whether compounds 11 and 12 affect LuxO ATPase activity. To do this we used a coupled enzyme assay 42 to assess the rate of ATP hydrolysis by LuxO in the presence and absence of the compounds. Both compounds inhibit ATP hydrolysis in a dose dependent manner . Using traditional Michaelis Menton enzyme kinetic analyses we found that both compounds decrease the Kand the Vof the LuxO ATPase reaction . The Lineweaver Burk plots of curves derived from control reactions and from inhibitor containing reactions display parallel slopes K V indicating that compounds 11 and 12 function as uncompetitive inhibitors suggesting they bind to the pre formed LuxO ATP complex to inhibit ATP hydrolysis. Indeed inhibition of LuxO ATPase by the analogs we identified or synthesized as represented by inhibition is correlated with their potency EC in inducing QS in the luxOmutant . We conclude that the LuxO inhibitors discovered here activate QS in by specifically inhibiting the ATPase activity of LuxO. Presumably in the presence of the inhibitors LuxO is incapable of participating in open complex formation at the qrr promoters which prevents transcription of the Qrr sRNAs. In turn translation of HapR is derepressed and the QS response occurs prematurely.

It appeared likely that compounds 11 and 12 bind to LuxO at an allosteric site that negatively regulates ATP hydrolysis activity. To determine where compounds 11 and 12 bind we screened for LuxO mutants refractory to inhibition. To do this we engineered random mutations into the cloned luxOgene and introduced the mutant library into a luxO strain carrying the lux operon. We screened for clones that conferred a dark phenotype in the presence of compound 12 hypothesizing that such mutants harbor alterations in the inhibitor binding site. Four such mutants were identified . These LuxO D47E variants are functional as judged by their ability to repress light production in the absence of inhibitor . Sequencing revealed that the four LuxO D47E mutants carry L211F L215F L242F or V294L alterations implicating these residues as important for binding of the inhibitors. We mapped these four alterations on the existing crystal structure of ATP bound 1 PDB 3MOE 43 which displays high sequence homology to LuxO. The four residues we identified in the screen map to three regions that abut the predicted Walker B ATP binding motif D245 E246 L247 and C248 in LuxO . In other NtrC type proteins mutations in this region have been shown to prevent ATP hydrolysis. Thus binding of compounds 11 and 12 to this region may induce a conformational change in the nearby ATP binding pocket that inhibits ATP hydrolysis.

LuxO is a conserved member of QS circuits. Therefore compounds 11 and 12 were tested to determine if they could activate QS in other species. We exploited two well characterized phenotypes controlled by QS light production in and colony opacity in 44 45 46 . In light production is induced by QS and a luxOmutant is dark. Treatment of luxOwith compounds 11 and 12 induced light production 10.000 fold indicating that these compounds are indeed active in . In the HapR ortholog OpaR controls colony opacity. OpaR production is repressed at LCD by LuxO P via the Qrr sRNAs. mutants that produce low and high levels of OpaR form translucent and opaque colonies respectively 32 46 . Thus is naturally translucent at LCD and opaque at HCD. McCarter et al 32 identified a constitutively active LuxO mutant LM4476 luxO in that confers a constitutive translucent colony morphology left . By contrast an isogenic luxO strain LM9688 forms opaque colonies left . When the luxO mutant is plated on medium containing compound 11 or compound 12 the colonies switch from translucent to opaque a phenotype indistinguishable from the luxO mutant right . These results suggest that compounds 11 and 12 inhibit LuxO from repressing the OpaR dependent QS program. We conclude that the LuxO inhibitors identified in this study are broadly capable of activating QS in species that employ LuxO as the central QS regulator.

In pathogenic vibrios HapR and its homologs e.g. OpaR and SmcR function as repressors of virulence factor production at HCD 32 33 34 . For example in the genes encoding the key virulence factors the CTX toxin and the Toxin Co regulated Pilus TCP are targets of HapR repression at HCD 17 27 30uses Type Three Secretion Systems TTSS for pathogenesis and at HCD OpaR represses the expression of one of the TTSS operons TTSS 1 32 47 . Thus luxO mutants that constitutively produce HapR or OpaR are attenuated in virulence 22 30 32 . The previous section shows that our LuxO inhibitors are active in multiple vibrios. To test whether the inhibitors can disrupt the QS controlled virulence outputs of pathogenic vibrios we assayed their effects on TcpA production in and production and secretion of VopD a TTSS 1 effector protein in . Western blot analysis showed that in a luxOstrain HapR and TcpA levels increased and decreased respectively in the presence of compound 12 . Likewise exposing the luxO mutant to compound 12 resulted in decreased production and secretion of VopD .

To test whether repression of these in vitro virulence phenotype translates to repression of the in vivo phenotype we exploited an established cytotoxicity assay 48 to investigate whether pathogenicity could be inhibited by treatment with the LuxO inhibitors. We infected cultured HeLa cells with the untreated or compound 12 treated luxO mutant and assayed HeLa cell lysis by measuring lactate dehydrogenase released from the host cytoplasm. At 2 to 3 hours post infection HeLa cell lysis was significantly lower in samples infected with the luxO mutant treated with compound 12 than in samples infected with the luxO mutant that had not been treated average cytotoxicity is 30 and 100 for treated and untreated respectively p

We identified two classes of molecules that activate QS in . These newly identified molecules serve two important purposes. First they can be used as novel chemical probes to study QS signal transduction mechanisms. Second because QS represses virulence factor production in many pathogenic species these molecules that activate QS which decreases virulence have the potential to be anti virulence agents to combat infectious diseases caused by pathogenic vibrios.

The molecules identified as Class 1 act on the CqsS receptor. These molecules surprisingly do not resemble the native CAI 1 family of ligands . Previous studies revealed that CqsS receptors from different vibrios possess distinct ligand detection specificities. The receptor is promiscuous in detecting a range of CAI 1 type molecules while the receptor is relatively stringent 39 . None of the Class 1 molecules identified here activates QS in lending support to the idea that CqsS receptors although sharing extensive homology possess different overall stringencies for ligands. We altered a single specificity determining residue in the CqsS receptor Cys 170 to the corresponding amino acid Phe in the receptor. This alteration is sufficient to increase stringency in detection of CAI 1 type molecules 39 49 however it did not abolish detection of the Class 1 molecules . Identification of CqsS receptor mutants with altered selectivity to the Class 1 molecules will provide additional insight into the molecular basis of ligand CqsS interactions.

The second class of molecules identified act on LuxO the central QS regulator that controls transcription of the four Qrr sRNA genes. In contrast to previously identified LuxO inhibitors our LuxO inhibitor molecules function by an uncompetitive mechanism presumably by binding to the pre formed LuxO ATP complex to prevent ATP hydrolysis. Thus multiple families of response regulator can be selectively inhibited using small molecules. Furthermore all three known response regulator activities phosphorylation DNA binding and ATPase are potential targets for inhibition.

Analyses of LuxO inhibitor resistant mutants suggest that our inhibitors bind to a region close to the predicted Walker B motif Additional support for this idea comes from studies of other NtrC type proteins which show that mutations that affect ATP hydrolysis but do not interfere with ATP binding also map to the Walker B motif and to amino acid residues preceding the conserved GAFTGA domain 43 53 54 . Indeed one of the LuxO inhibitor resistant mutations identified here L242F lies immediately upstream of the predicted Walker B motif while both the I211F and L215F mutations map to the helix containing the GAFTGA domain. In addition the residue identified in the final inhibitor resistant mutant V294L is predicted to sit facing the putative catalytic arginine R306 . The GAFTGA domain is important for interaction with the RNAP holoenzyme 55 . Thus it was possible that the mutations we isolated in this region I211F and L215F suppress inhibition by compounds 11 and 12 by stabilizing the LuxO RNAP interaction without affecting inhibitor binding. If this were the case the ATPase activity of the purified LuxO D47E I211F and D47E L215F variants would be inhibited by these compounds. However we purified LuxO D47E 1211F protein and found that the ATPase activity is not inhibited . This result is consistent with the idea that these mutations abolish inhibitor binding and in so doing prevent ATP hydrolysis.

High sequence conservation in the ATPase domain exists between different NtrC type response regulator family members. We tested whether the LuxO inhibitors could inhibit other NtrC type response regulators. Compounds 11 and 12 only modestly inhibit 10 the ATPase activity of purified NtrC at 250 M a concentration at which 80 of the LuxO ATPase activity is inhibited . This finding is surprising because the key residues I211 L215 L242 and V294 that when mutated confer resistance to the inhibitors in LuxO are all present in NtrC. Thus NtrC must possess additional structural features that render it resistant to inhibition. Structural comparisons between these two related response regulators coupled with identification of inhibitor sensitive NtrC mutants should allow for an understanding of the basis of the differences in inhibitor sensitivity.

In the context of our work the ATPase domain is highly conserved between all members of the NtrC response regulator family. Therefore molecules that specifically target the ATPase domain of a single response regulator in this family e.g. LuxO could potentially be developed into general inhibitors of NtrC family of proteins. Because NtrC type proteins control virulence nitrogen metabolism motility and other vital processes in bacteria 37 targeting the ATPase domain offers an additional route for anti TCS drug development.

Various modifications and variations of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention and fall within the scope of the appended claims. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are incorporated in their entirety by reference.

