---

title: Power spike mitigation
abstract: A method, device, and system for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device. The device can receive an input signal and determine whether the input signal exceeds a threshold value. If so, the device simultaneously starts an initial time period and starts a latch time period, where the latch time period is greater than the initial time period. During the initial time period, the device replaces the input signal with a set value signal. After the initial time period ends and during the remainder of the latch time period, the device prevents the input signal from being replaced by the set value signal. If, during the remainder of the latch time period, the input signal exceeds the threshold value, a trip signal may be generated by a protective device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08830645&OS=08830645&RS=08830645
owner: Cooper Technologies Company
number: 08830645
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130111
---
The present disclosure relates generally to relay protection and more particularly to systems methods and devices for mitigating erroneous relay operation caused by power spikes.

Switching of high voltage electric apparatus such as circuit breakers can generate high frequency voltage and or current excursions also called spikes or bursts . These excursions can penetrate through instrument transformers and the corresponding secondary wiring to protective device inputs distorting the relay input signals. While many protective devices filter higher frequencies the distorted relay input signals caused by power excursions cannot be entirely eliminated. As such the power excursions can penetrate through the relay filters as one or multiple power spikes superimposed on the measured signal. As a result distorted relay input signals can cause erroneous operation of the protective device. This phenomenon can especially be a problem for fast operating protective devices such as differential relays.

In general in one aspect the disclosure relates to a method for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device. The method can include receiving an input signal and determining that the input signal exceeds a threshold value. The method can also include upon determining that the input signal exceeds the threshold value starting an initial time period and starting a latch time period where the latch time period is greater than the initial time period. The method can further include replacing the input signal with a set value signal for the initial time period where the set value signal has a value that is less than the threshold value. The method can also include preventing when the initial time period ends and during a remainder of the latch time period further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a protective device. The protective device can include memory for storing instructions and a hardware processor communicably coupled to the memory where the hardware processor executes the instructions stored in the memory. The protective device can also include a timer that measures a latch time period and an initial time period and a protection engine communicably coupled to the timer a first sensing device and the hardware processor. The protection engine can receive an input signal derived from a first signal generated by the first sensing device and determine whether the input signal exceeds a threshold value. The protection engine can also initiate when the input signal exceeds the threshold value the timer to measure the initial time period and the latch time period. The protection engine can further replace the input signal with a set value signal during the initial time period. The protection engine can also when the initial time period ends and during a remainder of the latch time period further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal. The protective device can further include a trip mechanism operatively coupled to the protection engine where the trip mechanism generates and sends a trip signal when the input signal during the duration of the latch time period exceeds the threshold value. Further the latch time period can be greater than the initial time period.

In yet another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a protective device system. The protective device system can include a first sensing device coupled to a first conductor where the first sensing device generates a signal based on power flowing through the first conductor. The protective device system can also include a protective device communicably coupled to the first sensing device. The protective device can include memory for storing instructions and a hardware processor communicably coupled to the memory where the hardware processor executes the instructions stored in the memory. The protective device can also include a timer that measures a latch time period and an initial time period and a protection engine communicably coupled to the timer the first sensing device and the hardware processor. The protective engine can receive an input signal derived from the signal generated by the first sensing device and determine whether the input signal exceeds a threshold value. The protective engine can further initiate when the input signal exceeds the threshold value the timer to measure the initial time period and the latch time period and replace the input signal with a set value signal during the initial time period. The protective engine also can prevent when the initial time period ends and during a remainder of the latch time period further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal. The protective device can also include a trip mechanism operatively coupled to the protection engine where the trip mechanism generates a trip signal when the input signal during the remainder of the latch time period exceeds the threshold value.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Example embodiments of power spike mitigation will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like but not necessarily the same or identical elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency. In the following detailed description of the example embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the disclosure herein. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the example embodiments herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description. Further certain descriptions e.g. top bottom side end interior inside inner outer are merely intended to help clarify aspects of the invention and are not meant to limit embodiments described herein.

In general example embodiments provide systems methods and devices for power spike mitigation. Specifically example embodiments provide for protective devices that determine whether a power spike is a lone excursion or the start of a fault before actuating. In such a case the protective device strikes a balance between not actuating generating a trip signal when the input signal includes a mere isolated power spike and not delaying actuation overly long when a legitimate fault is present in the circuit. As used herein a power spike can also be called a power excursion. A fault can include one or more power spikes which would occur at the beginning of a fault.

Example protective devices discussed herein can be used with and or monitor one or more of a number of voltages and or currents which can also be described as various levels of power. For example a protective device can monitor power devices that are electrically coupled to 345 kV alternating current AC where such power is operating power. As another example the protective device can operate on 24 V direct current DC where such power is control power.

As used herein the term high power is used to describe higher amounts of power. Higher amounts of power in terms of current can be any current at or above approximately 100 amperes A but can be less than 100 A in certain instances as in a steady state operating condition. High amounts of power can also be a voltage and or current that is greater than a lower amount of power. In addition the term low power can be used to describe lower amounts of power. Low power can also be called control power and or control current. Lower amounts of power in terms of voltage can be any voltage at or below 120 VAC.

In certain example embodiments the protective device the power device protected by the protective device and or a system that includes the example protective device is subject to meeting certain standards and or requirements. For example the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE set standards as to wiring and protection of high power electrical systems. Use of example embodiments described herein meet and or allow a corresponding device to meet such standards when required.

The power source is shown being electrically coupled to a breaker using a high power conductor . The power source can provide electricity that is in AC format. The power source can be physically separate from the other components of the system and or combined with another component of the system . The high power conductor can include one or more voltage conductors and a neutral conductor. In certain example embodiments instead of generating power the power source can consume power as a motor capacitor a transformer or inductor. The passive load can be any generating and or consuming source of power.

In certain example embodiments one or more conductors is used to electrically couple the power source the breakers the passive load the sensing devices and or any other components of the system . Each high power conductor described herein can carry voltage current or a combination thereof. In addition each high power conductor described herein can be wire cable or other medium that can carry a voltage and or current therethrough.

The high power conductor can be made of an electrically conductive material e.g. copper aluminum and can have one or more electrically non conductive materials e.g. rubber nylon plastic wrapped around the electrically conductive material. The electrically conductive material of the conductor can be one of a number of sizes that allow the high power conductor to carry the voltage and or current required for the system . The amount of power e.g. voltage current delivered using the conductors by the power source to the breakers the sensing devices and the passive load can be any amount suitable to operate the electrical devices electrically coupled to the other in the system .

The breakers are electrically coupled to the power source the passive load and each other using one or more high power conductors . The breakers can be a manually and or automatically operated electrical switch designed to protect an electrical circuit e.g. the power source the passive load from damage caused by overload or short circuit. The breakers are also electrically coupled to one or more protective devices using conductor . A function of the breakers is to receive a trip signal from a protective device and in response to the trip signal operate open to interrupt continuity and immediately discontinue electrical flow. Each breaker can have an open position used to discontinue electrical flow and a closed position used to allow electrical flow . The breaker can be any device that operates to change state during operations.

In certain example embodiments when a breaker operates changes state from open position to a closed position or changes state from a closed position to an open position the switching operation of the breaker generates high frequency voltage and or current excursions which can also be called bursts or spikes. As another example a lighting strike can cause high frequency voltage and or current excursions. These spikes can penetrate through one or more sensing devices and carry on to the corresponding protective device . In such a case the spikes are superimposed with the input signal distorting the input signal measured by the protective device . The breakers shown can be the same e.g. have the same size voltage rating current rating or different from each other.

In certain example embodiments the breakers are physically located in the proximity of one or more sensing devices . When a circuit breaker operates the circuit breaker can generate one or more spikes which can penetrate inside one or more protective devices through the corresponding sensing devices . Operation of other nearby switching apparatus within the system can also generate spike disturbances that are delivered to a protective device through the corresponding sensing device .

In example embodiments the sensing device is any device that generates harvests a representation of a current flowing through a conductor . When such a current flows through a conductor the current can be called a line current. The example sensing device can be coupled e.g. magnetically to at least one conductor and the corresponding protective device . For example the sensing device can be electromagnetically coupled to a conductor and electrically coupled to capable of sending and receiving signals with respect to the protective device using conductor . In such a case the sensing device can clamp around and or encircle the conductor .

The sensing device can have one or more leads that carry the power harvested by the sensing device to the corresponding protective device . The leads also called conductor can be a form of conductor as described above. For example conductor can be a fiber optic cable. The representation of the operating parameter e.g. current can be an electrical signal e.g. analog signal digital signal an electro mechanical signal and or any other suitable signal. The representation of the operating parameter can be a fractional amount of proportionately smaller than the operating parameter. The difference between the operating parameter and the representation of the operating parameter can be defined by a ratio. In one example embodiment the representation of the operating parameter is sent by the sensing device to the corresponding protective device . The representation of the operating parameter can be called an input signal. The input signal can be raw unfiltered .

In certain example embodiments the sensing device includes a primary winding and a secondary winding. The primary winding and the secondary winding typically have a known ratio e.g. 10 000 1 . As a result in such a case the secondary winding to which the leads are electrically coupled generates a representation of the operating parameter that is 10 000 times less than the operating parameter. The sensing device can also be capable of harvesting power from one or more conductors in the form of one or more voltage conductors a neutral conductor some other conductor or any combination thereof. Alternatively or in addition a different sensing device can be used for each conductor e.g. each phase in an AC circuit that make up the conductor .

The sensing device can include one or more Rogowski coils. Generally Rogowski coils are designed with two wire loops connected in electrically opposite directions. This cancels electromagnetic fields coming from outside the coil loop. One or both loops can consist of wound wire. If only one loop is constructed as a winding then the second wire loop can be constructed by returning the wire through or near this winding. If both loops are constructed as windings then they must be wound in opposite directions. Two windings can be laid on top of each other or next to each other. There are different Rogowski coil designs such as split core or non split core style. A Rogowski coil can be rigid or flexible. Rogowski coils are wound over a non magnetic core usually having toroidal shape. This core may be made of plastic epoxy and or other insulating material. The coil then may be formed around a conductor where the current in the conductor is measured. The voltage that is induced in the Rogowski coil is proportional to the rate of change of current in the conductor . This rate of change of current can be called the first time derivative of the current or di dt or change in current per change in time. Thus the output of the Rogowski coil can be used to represent di dt where i is the current in the conductor being measured. Also the output of a Rogowski coil can be connected to an electronic integrator circuit to provide a signal that is proportional to the sensed current.

Rogowski coils can provide low inductance and excellent response to fast changing currents since they have air cores rather than an iron core. Without an iron core to saturate a Rogowski coil can be highly linear even in high current applications. Furthermore having reduced saturation concerns a sensing device and associated protective device using a Rogowski coil can employ a single slope response with increased sensitivity. Also the geometry of a Rogowski coil may provide a sensing device that is significantly immune to electromagnetic interference. In certain example embodiments the effect of a spike can be more pronounced when using a Rogowshi coil in the sensing device because the Rogowski coil is frequency dependent which means that the Rogowski coil can amplify higher frequencies with a linear relationship between the coil output signal and frequency.

The power harvested by the sensing device from the conductor and the resulting input signal delivered to the corresponding protective device can generate the power required to operate one or more components e.g. the hardware processor of the protective device . In addition or in the alternative one or more components of the protective device can be powered from a separate auxiliary power source not shown which can include but is not limited to 120 VAC service and or a battery. Part of the protective device in is electrically and or communicably coupled to the user using conductor . Specifically conductor electrically couples the protective devices to the user and each other. Conductor can be a conductor delivering control power as described above with respect to conductor such as a fiber optic cable or an Ethernet system a wireless communication system or any combination thereof. In certain example embodiments conductor is the same as conductor .

Details of the components of the protective devices are described below with respect to . In general each protective device communicates with the user to receive instructions e.g. new settings and or to notify the user that a trip signal has been sent to a breaker . e.g. new settings trip signal when a fault condition is detected by the protective device . When the breaker operates opens in response to a trip signal generated by a protective device one or more circuits are opened to prevent the condition causing the fault from causing damage to one or more components in the system .

In certain example embodiments the protective device monitors for a fault condition and when a fault condition exists both sends the trip signal to the breaker and sends a notification to the user that the trip signal was sent. In such a case the protective device can generate and send a trip signal that is sent directly to the breaker . The protective device can also send a trip signal to the user for information purposes. In such a case when the trip signal is generated and sent the protective device is said to operate.

Generally when a protective device generates and sends a trip signal one or more devices e.g. breaker in the system are electrically isolated. In addition each protective device can be electrically and or communicably coupled to each other using the conductor . In such a case the protective devices can send signals measured by their respective sensing devices to each other to determine if a fault condition exists. For example protective device can receive the signal measured by sensing device and sent by protective device to compare such signal with the signal measured by sensing device to determine if the differential current in this case the input signal for protective device exceeds a differential current threshold level.

Each protective device can monitor one or more of a number of different electrical conditions also called a fault or fault condition. One such electrical condition is an overcurrent condition. In one example embodiment an overcurrent condition is where one or more conductors transmitting power carries a current that is too high i.e. has too many amperes relative to a threshold current. For example if a threshold current is 120 Amperes A and the current flowing through a conductor is 220 A then an overcurrent condition exists. An overcurrent condition can also be caused by one or more of a number of other conditions including but not limited to excessive power demand by a load internal dielectric degradation and or an internal short circuit in an electrical connector.

In certain example embodiments a user is communicably coupled to one or more of the protective devices . A user can be any person that interacts with the system that includes a protective device . Examples of a user can include but are not limited to an electric distribution company an electric transmission company a public utility a control room operator a load management system an engineer an electrician an instrumentation and controls technician a mechanic an operator a consultant a contractor and a manufacturer s representative.

A user can communicate with a protective device using a physical interaction e.g. touching a touch pad on the protective device and or using a user system not shown . In cases where a user uses a user system to communicate with a protective device the user system can use wired and or wireless technology. The user system is described more fully below with respect to and the application interface of the protective device.

In certain example embodiments the housing is a type of enclosure houses one or more of the components of the protective device . The housing can have a movable portion that allows a user to access the one or more components of the protective device located inside the housing . The housing can be made of one or more of a number of suitable materials including but not limited to plastic metal glass and rubber. The housing can be mounted in one or more locations when connected to the system . For example the housing can be mounted in or near a compartment that houses the corresponding breaker . As another example the housing can be mounted in or near a central relay station.

In certain example embodiments the power supply is operatively coupled to the hardware processor and any other components of the protective device . The power supply can be one or more sources of energy e.g. electricity used to provide power and or control to the hardware processor and or any other component of the protective device . The power supply typically provides electricity that is in AC format and or DC format. The power supply can be physically separate from the other components of the protective device and or internal within the housing of the protective device .

The amount of power delivered by the power supply to the hardware processor can be any amount suitable to operate the hardware processor . In certain example embodiments the power delivered by the power supply is transformed rectified inverted and or otherwise manipulated at the power supply so that the hardware processor and or other various components of the protective device receive a proper voltage and or current level to operate properly. In certain example embodiments the signal received from a sensing device acts as the power supply by providing power to the hardware processor and or other components of the protective device .

In certain example embodiments the power supply can be a battery. The battery can provide power to the hardware processor and or other components of the protective device on a constant basis or as backup power when a different power supply fails. The battery and or power supply can be disposed inside of the housing affixed to the housing or placed in a location remote from the housing . The power supply and or the battery can be electrically coupled to the hardware processor and or other components of the protective device using a wired and or wireless technology.

The hardware processor receives power from the power source and is communicably coupled at least to the timer the application interface the memory and the protection engine . In general the protection engine using one or more instructions executed on the hardware processor and using software stored in the memory determines whether a power spike input signal exceeds a threshold and if so simultaneously initiates an initial time period and a longer latch timer period replaces the input signal with a set value signal during the initial time period and after the initial time period and during the duration of the latch time period prevents the input signal from being replaced by the set value signal. If a trip signal is subsequently sent to a breaker the protection engine can also use the application interface and the conductors to inform the user that the trip signal was sent.

The example hardware processor within the housing of the protective device is configured to execute software in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the hardware processor is configured to execute the instructions used to operate the protection engine and or any other components within the protective device . The example hardware processor is an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor. The hardware processor can be known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microcontroller a microprocessor and a multi core processor.

In one or more example embodiments the hardware processor is configured to execute software instructions stored in the memory of the protective device . The example memory can include one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. In certain example embodiments the memory is discretely located within the housing relative to the hardware processor . In certain configurations the memory can also be integrated with the hardware processor . The hardware processor can be integrated into one or more mixed signal integrated circuits. In such a case the profile and or cost of the hardware processor can be reduced.

In certain example embodiments the protection engine of the protective device coordinates the digital filter the timer and the trip mechanism . Specifically the protection engine sends data e.g. signals instructions to the filter digital the timer and the trip mechanism . Similarly the protection engine receives data e.g. input signal time from the digital filter the timer and the trip mechanism . More specifically the protection engine receives using the application interface one or more input signals e.g. current from the sensing devices .

The protection engine can continually read the input signals or sample the input signals. When the protection engine samples the input signals the sampling rate can be based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to a default sampling rate a sampling rate defined by the user a sampling rate stored in the storage repository some other factor or any combination thereof. An example of a sampling rate is 16 samples per cycle. The sampling rate can be random or substantially constant. In certain example embodiments the sampling rate is the same for all types raw signals filtered signals etc. of input signals used herein.

In certain example embodiments the protection engine receives an input signal and determines whether the input signal exceeds one or more threshold values. The threshold values can be among the thresholds stored in the storage repository . Specifically the protection engine determines which threshold values are needed retrieves those threshold values from the thresholds in the storage repository and compares the input signal to the threshold values to determine if the input signal exceeds a threshold value. When the protection engine determines that the input signal exceeds a threshold value the input signal could be the start of a fault condition or merely a power spike. In either case upon determining that the input signal exceeds a threshold value the protection engine sends an instruction signal to the timer to start measuring an initial time period and a latch time period.

In certain example embodiments the timer tracks clock time and or tracks one or more time periods such as the initial time period and the latch time period. The example timer is able to track one or more time periods concurrently. The timer can be part of the hardware processor . The timer can track time periods based on an instruction received from the protection engine based on an instruction received from the user based on an instruction programmed in the software for the protective device based on some other condition or from any combination thereof.

The latch time period can be longer than the initial time period. For example the latch time period can be approximately 0.07 seconds while the initial time period can be several milliseconds such as approximately 0.01 seconds. A time period can be measured in seconds and or in one or more other measurements. For example for a circuit with AC power the initial time period can be half cycles. The duration of each time period e.g. the initial time period the latch time period can be stored in the timer and or in the storage repository . The duration of each time period can be set by default by a user by software instructions by the protection engine and or by any other suitable means. In certain example embodiments the initial time period is no more than one cycle. When a time period has ended expired lapsed the timer sends a signal to the protection engine to notify the protection engine that such a time period has ended.

In certain example embodiments when the protection engine instructs the timer to start measuring an initial time period the protection engine replaces the input signal with a set value signal during the initial time period. The set value signal is an artificial signal that has a predetermined value that is less than the threshold values used to compare with the input signals. Such set value signal can be stored in the storage repository and retrieved by the protection engine when the protection engine determines that the input signal exceeds a threshold value. In certain example embodiments the protection engine replaces the input signal with the set value signal and compares the set value signal with the threshold values for the duration of the initial time period.

When the timer notifies the protection engine that the initial time period has ended the timer continues to measure the latch time period because the latch time period is longer than the initial time period. When the protection engine receives the notification from the timer that the initial time period has ended the protection engine prevents further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal. In certain example embodiments the protection engine prevents further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal until the protection engine receives notification from the timer that the latch time period has ended.

In addition when the protection engine receives the notification from the timer that the initial time period has ended the protection engine resumes comparing the input signal with the threshold value. Alternatively during the duration of the latch time period after the initial time period has ended the protection engine does not compare the input signal with the threshold value. In such a case the protection engine resumes comparing the input signal with the threshold value when the latch period ends.

In certain example embodiments the protection engine sends the input signal i.e. the set value signal during the initial time period and the input signal at all other times to the digital filter . After being processed by the digital filter the input signal becomes a filtered input signal or simply a filtered signal . The protection engine or some other engine of the protection device then receives the filtered input signal filtered by the digital filter and compares the filtered input signal with the threshold values to determine whether the filtered input signal exceeds a threshold value i.e. whether a fault exists .

If the protection engine determines that the filtered input signal does not exceed a threshold value during the remainder of the latch period then the filtered input signal is within a normal range and the initial excursion detected in the input signal by the protection engine causing the timer to start measuring the initial time period and the latch time period was merely an isolated power spike. On the other hand if the protection engine determines that the filtered input signal exceeds a threshold value during the remainder of the latch period then the filtered input signal is part of a fault condition. In such a case the protection engine instructs the trip mechanism to generate a trip signal and send the trip signal to a breaker . Optionally in certain example embodiments the trip mechanism can also generate an information notification for a user indicating that a trip signal was sent to a breaker .

Continuing with the protective device interacts with the user using an application interface in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the application interface of the protective device receives input from and sends output to the user . The user can include an interface to receive data from and send data to the protective device in certain example embodiments. Examples of this interface include but are not limited to a graphical user interface an application programming interface a keyboard a monitor a mouse a web service a data protocol adapter some other hardware and or software or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the information received by the application interface includes but is not limited to relay settings and thresholds . The information sent by the application interface can include but is not limited to a notification that a trip signal has been sent to a breaker . The information sent by the application interface specifies but is not limited to a user a field location a data source a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL a web address etc. data identified by and or requested by the protection engine some other software or source of information or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the information i.e. data transferred among the application interface the user corresponds to metadata associated with such information. In this case the metadata describes the data specified the metadata provides context for the specified data . In one or more embodiments of the invention the protective device supports various data formats provided by the user .

Continuing with the protective device retrieves and stores thresholds . More specifically the protective device uses the protection engine to retrieve and store thresholds in the storage repository in accordance with one or more example embodiments. In one or more example embodiments the thresholds of the storage repository are a measure of one or more of a number of data points and or parameters. Specifically the thresholds represent values or ranges of values that measure the strength of a data point e.g. the magnitude of an input signal . The storage repository can also store one or more of a number of other types of data including but not limited to filter algorithms comparison algorithms and time periods.

The storage repository can be a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to assist the protection engine in determining a threshold to compare against an input signal received from a sensing device . In one or more example embodiments the storage repository stores the thresholds . Examples of a storage repository include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof. The storage repository is located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the thresholds according to some example embodiments. Each storage unit or device is physically located in the same or different geographic location.

The storage repository can be operatively connected to the protection engine and the digital filter . In one or more example embodiments the protection engine includes functionality to receive an input signal or more simply a signal from a sensing device determine that an input signal exceeds a corresponding threshold value from the thresholds stored in the storage repository start the timer to measure an initial time period and a latch time period replace the input signal with a set value signal during the initial time period prevent the input signal from being replaced with the set value signal during the remainder of the latch time period after the initial time period ends and repeat the process after the remainder of the latch time period ends.

The functions of the protection engine using example embodiments can be performed on a single computing device or on multiple computing devices. Further the functions of the protection engine can be performed on the same computing device that performs the functions e.g. digital filtering fault detection using a filtered signal of a protective device currently known in the art. When the functions of the protection engine are performed on multiple computing devices a number of configurations and or frameworks are used in certain example embodiments. The configurations and or software frameworks are designed to work with multiple data nodes and large quantities of data. One or more calculations performed by one or more components of the protection engine are performed on multiple machines operating in parallel where the results from each machine are combined to generate a result to the one or more calculations.

Each component of the protective device described herein e.g. the protection engine the trip mechanism uses one or more algorithms to perform one or more calculations. Each algorithm is designed to receive specific types of data and generate one or more specific results using such data. A specific result is a number a range of numbers a rating and or some other suitable output according to some example embodiments. Each algorithm is fixed variable self adjusting or otherwise changed. Each algorithm uses one or more pieces of data from one or more areas of data e.g. thresholds .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the protection engine of the protective device coordinates the digital filter the timer the trip mechanism and the storage repository . Specifically the protection engine coordinates the transfer of information between the application interface the storage repository and the other components of the protective device according to certain example embodiments.

In the graph in a filtered version of the signal is shown after going through the digital filter of the protective device . In this case the filter extends the length approximately 0.0167 seconds or one cycle and decreases the magnitude approximately 750 A of the power spike . Again the signal is at a normal level prior to and shortly after the power spike .

The differential current of can be generated by the protection engine of the protective device . The power spike of the differential current has approximately the same duration and magnitude as the power spike shown in . This means that the effects of the breaker closing as measured by the sensing device did not travel along the conductor to reach sensing device to be measured. In other words the power spike created by the operation of the breaker has a stronger magnitude at the sensing device and a lower magnitude at the sensing device .

The power spike lasts approximately one half of one cycle until a time corresponding to point . After the time corresponding to point the raw signal has an amplified shape associated with a fault condition . The amplified shape is symmetrical and cyclic similar to the normal shape . However the magnitude of the amplified shape of the fault condition is greater than the amplitude of the normal shape of the steady state condition such that the apexes of the fault condition exceed the positive threshold value at the positive portions of the fault condition and exceed the negative threshold value at the negative portions of the fault condition .

In certain example embodiments a power spike can exist as a precursor to a fault condition or in the absence of a fault condition as during a normal breaker operation . If the power spike exists as a precursor to a fault condition the input signal for the subsequent time after the power spike e.g. after point in can simply be called a fault .

In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that additional steps omitted in may be included in performing these methods. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps shown in should not be construed as limiting the scope. In addition a particular computing device as described for example in below may be used to perform one or more of the steps for the method described below.

Referring now to one example method begins at the START step and continues to step . In step an input signal is received. The input signal can be a raw unfiltered signal. In certain example embodiments one or more components of the protective device are used to process the signal sent by the sensing device to generate the input signal. For example the digital filter can be used to filter the raw unfiltered signal and generate the input signal also called in this case a filtered signal. The input signal can be originated by a measuring device and received by a protective device .

In step a determination is made as to whether the input signal exceeds a threshold value. The threshold value is among the thresholds stored in the storage repository . The threshold value can be retrieved by the protection engine . In certain example embodiments the protection engine compares the input signal and the threshold value and determines whether the input signal exceeds the threshold value. The threshold value can be a range of values. The threshold value can be a positive value a negative value or an absolute value. As an example the threshold value is exceeded if the input signal is greater than the absolute value of the threshold value.

If the threshold value is a minimum threshold value then the threshold value is exceeded if the input signal is less than the minimum threshold value. The threshold value can be some multiple e.g. at least two ten fifteen times greater than an average of the input signal prior to the initial time period. If the input signal exceeds the threshold value then the process proceeds to steps and at substantially the same time. If the input signal does not exceed the threshold value then the process proceeds to step .

In step a determination is made as to whether the input signal continues to be received. The input signal can be the same or a different input signal compared to that received in step above. In certain example embodiments the input signal is a continuous signal. The input signal can be generated by one or more sensing devices and received by one or more protective devices . The one or more protective devices can determine whether the input signal continues to be received. If the input signal continues to be received then the process reverts to step . In such a case the process forms a continuous loop between steps and until the input signal is no longer received or until the input signal exceeds a threshold value. If the input signal is no longer received then the method ends at the END step.

In step the latch time period is started. The latch time period is started and measured by the timer . In certain example embodiments the protection engine sends a command to the timer to start measuring the latch time period. The latch time period can be set and or adjusted by default by a user by the control center some other component and or by the protection engine according to software instructions. The latch time period can be any period of time that allows the protection engine to analyze the input signal to determine whether a fault condition truly exists. For example the latch time period can be approximately 0.07 seconds.

In step an initial time period is started. The initial time period is started and measured by the timer . In certain example embodiments initial time period and the latch time period are started at substantially the same time. The initial time period can be shorter than the latch time period. The protection engine can send a command to the timer to start measuring the initial time period. The initial time period can be set and or adjusted by default by a user some other component and or by the protection engine according to software instructions.

The initial time period can be any period of time that would reduce or eliminate the effects of a power spike on a filtered signal flowing through the logic of the protective device . Specifically the initial time period can be of such a duration that the protection engine does not instruct the trip mechanism to generate and send a trip signal when an isolated power spike is received from a sensing device . At the same time the initial time period can be of such a duration that the protection engine does instruct the trip mechanism to generate and send a trip signal when a power spike received from a sensing device is the beginning of a fault. For example the initial time period is no more than approximately one cycle. As another example the initial time period is no more than approximately 0.008 seconds.

In step the input signal is replaced with a set value signal for the initial time period. In certain example embodiments the set value signal has a value that is less than the threshold value. For example the set value signal can have a value of zero. As another example the set value signal can have a value e.g. maximum minimum that is equal to approximately the average of the input signal prior to the start of the initial time period. The set value signal can be determined by the protection engine . The set value signal can be constant sinusoidal sawtooth shaped some other regular and or repeatable shape or some random shape.

In step a determination is made as to whether the initial time period has ended. In certain example embodiments the timer measures the initial time period and sends a notification to the protection engine that the initial time period has ended. Because the latch time period is longer than the initial time period and because the latch time period and the initial time period start at substantially the same time a reminder of the latch time period exists when the initial time period has ended. If the initial time period has not ended the process reverts to step . In such a case the process forms a continuous loop between steps and until the initial time period ends. If the initial time period has ended then the process proceeds to step .

In step further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal is prevented. In other words the input signal is again evaluated in its unfiltered state as received from the sensing device and in some cases subsequently from an analog filter after the initial time period. In certain example embodiments the further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal is prevented during the remainder of the latch time period. The further replacement of the input signal with the set value signal can be prevented by the protection engine .

In step a determination is made as to whether the latch time period has ended. In certain example embodiments the timer measures the latch time period and sends a notification to the protection engine that the latch time period has ended. If the latch time period has not ended the process reverts to step . In such a case the process forms a continuous loop between steps and until the latch time period ends. If the latch time period has ended then the process reverts to step . In such a case subsequent power spikes can cause the method to repeat one or more times. On each occasion that the method repeats some distinguishing term e.g. subsequent can be used to differentiate each time that the method is used to mitigate the effect of a power spike on a protective device .

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

The computer device may be connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms now known or later developed. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further one or more example embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. protection engine hardware processor may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources.

The following description in conjunction with describes a few examples in accordance with one or more example embodiments. The examples are for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device. Terminology used in is used in the provided example without further reference to .

Consider the following example shown in which describes mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device in accordance with one or more example embodiments described above. shows a graph of the raw unfiltered signal received by a protective device from a sensing device . The raw signal is a steady state operating load current for all of the time shown in the graph except for a negative power spike at approximately 0.04 seconds. The magnitude of the power spike having a negative value exceeds the threshold also having a negative value . The threshold having a positive value is also shown on the graph .

Once the protection engine determines that the input signal has exceeded a threshold the protection engine sends a signal to the timer to have the timer start measuring a latch time period shown in the graph of and lasting approximately 0.06 seconds and an initial time period shown in the graph of . During the initial time period which lasts for approximately 0.008 seconds and covers approximately one half of one cycle of the input signal the input signal is replaced with a set value signal. The set value signal is shown in the graph of as a constant value that is approximately equal to the average peak of the input signal before the power spike .

At the end of the initial time period and during the remainder of the latch time period starting at approximately 0.05 seconds on the timeline after approximately 0.008 seconds after the power spike is detected the protection engine stops replacing the input signal with the set value signal and prevents the input signal from being replaced by the set value signal . During the initial time period and the remainder of the latch time period which lasts for approximately 0.06 seconds the protection engine sends the input signal which during the initial time period is the set value signal to the digital filter to generate a filtered signal.

If the protection engine determines that a fault exists during the remainder of the latch time period then the protection engine instructs the trip mechanism to generate a trip signal. In such a case the trip signal can be sent by the protective device to the breakers to trip open the breakers . In certain example embodiments the trip mechanism and or the protection engine can also send a notification signal to the user to notify the user that the trip signal has been sent to a breaker . When the breaker receives the trip signal the breaker opens causing one or more portions of the system to become electrically isolated to isolate the fault and or protect equipment from the fault.

When the latch time period lasting approximately 0.06 seconds ends at approximately 0.1 seconds on the timeline the protective device continues to operate as it did at zero seconds. In other words the protection engine continues to compare the input signal to the threshold values after 0.1 seconds. If at some point after 0.1 seconds the protection engine detects another power spike then the protective device repeats the sequence described with respect to the time period between approximately 0.04 seconds and 0.1 seconds.

This example illustrates how an example embodiment of mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device works. Without example embodiments described herein the protective device could misoperate trip without a fault condition and generate an unnecessary trip signal because of the occurrence of the isolated power spike . Such an unnecessary trip signal would have caused unnecessary down time for one or more segments of the system because the power spike is not part of a fault condition but rather is part of an isolated condition associated with for example a lighting strike or a breaker switching close to the sensing device . However because the protective device includes example embodiments for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device as described herein the protective device did not generate a trip signal and the system maintained operations.

Consider another example shown in which describes that the example method for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device in accordance with one or more example embodiments described above properly operates for a fault in the power system that does not generate a power spike. shows a graph of a raw unfiltered input signal received by a protective device from a sensing device . The raw input signal is substantially constant at a normal operating current approximately 200 A until a fault current of approximately 10 kA that begins at approximately 0.11 seconds. The magnitude of the fault exceeds the threshold and the threshold .

Once the protection engine determines that the input signal has exceeded a threshold value at approximately 0.1 seconds on the timeline the protection engine sends a signal to the timer to have the timer start measuring a latch time period shown in the graph of and lasting approximately 0.06 seconds and an initial time period shown in the graph of . During the initial time period which lasts for approximately 0.008 seconds and covers approximately one half of one cycle of the input signal the input signal of is replaced with a set value signal . The set value signal is shown in the graph of as a constant value that is approximately equal to the average peak of the input signal or any other set of data before the fault .

At the end of the initial time period at approximately 0.12 seconds on the timeline the protection engine stops replacing the input signal with the set value signal and prevents the input signal from further being replaced by the set value signal . As in during the initial time period and the remainder of the latch time period which lasts for approximately 0.06 seconds the protection engine sends the input signal which during the initial time period is the set value signal to the digital filter to generate a filtered signal.

If the protection engine determines during the remainder of the latch time period that a fault exists between the sensing devices and then the protection engine instructs the trip mechanism to generate a trip signal and send the trip signal to the breakers to trip open the breakers .

In this case because the input signal is a fault the trip signal would be generated after the end of the initial time period when the protection engine stops replacing the input signal with the set value signal . This causes a delay in generating a trip signal by the trip mechanism . Thus the delay in generating a trip signal for a legitimate fault not preceded by a power spike by a protective device using example embodiments is approximately one half of one cycle compared to a protective device operating without example embodiments described herein.

The graphs in show the importance of the latch time period . In certain example embodiments during the initial time period the protective device operates normally. However because the set value signal which is not greater than a threshold value replaces the input signal which may or may not be an isolated power spike during the initial time period the trip mechanism of the protective device while enabled is not instructed to generate a trip signal during the initial time period .

Once the initial time period ends for the duration of the latch time period the protective device receives the input signal which in this example is a fault . In other words after the initial time period ends and for the duration of the latch time period the input signal is no longer replaced with the set value signal . Thus the filtered signal based on the input signal is detected by the protection engine as being a fault. Here even though the threshold values are exceeded a number of times during the remainder of the latch time period the input signal is not replaced with the set value signal after the initial time period ends and for the remainder of the latch time period using example embodiments.

In this example after the initial time period ends and during the duration of the latch time period the threshold values are exceeded by the input signal almost constantly as shown in by and with occasional intermittent breaks. Specifically as shown in without the latch time period the input signal would be replaced constantly 6 times in this example for as long as a fault lasts. In such a case the protection engine could not detect the actual fault and the trip mechanism could not generate a trip signal to isolate and or clear the fault.

When the latch time period ends the fault signal continues and the exceeded reshold value also continues. Because the latch time period ends and because the input signal exceeds the threshold values another initial time period and another latch time period is initialized at substantially the same time by the protection engine . During the initial time period as shown in the input signal exceeds the threshold denoted in by and is replaced with a set value signal which may be substantially the same as the set value signal .

When the initial time period ends starting the remainder of the latch time period the process described above repeats itself. In other words the protection engine stops replacing the input signal with the set value signal and prevents the input signal from further being replaced by the set value signal . Again during the initial time period and the remainder of the latch time period the protection engine sends the input signal which during the initial time period is the set value signal to the digital filter to generate a filtered signal.

The graphs shown in are merely intended to show how example embodiments work independent of a trip signal to open a breaker and isolate a fault. Normally when the trip mechanism generates and sends a trip signal to a breaker the fault is isolated and the input signal no longer exceeds a threshold value . In such a case example embodiments would not continue to receive an input signal that constantly exceeds a threshold value .

In using example embodiments an extra step is added to the sequence shown above in . Specifically the input signal or in some cases the raw input signal is received by the protective device and using exemplary embodiments such input signal is received by an example embodiment to determine if a threshold value is exceeded. If the input signal exceeds a threshold value then the input signal is substituted with a fixed value for an initial time period and sent to the digital filter . If the input signal does not exceed a threshold value then the input signal is sent on by the example embodiment to the digital filter . Once the digital filter receives the input signal or the raw input signal the sequence proceeds as in above.

Example embodiments provide for mitigating the effect of a power spike on a protective device. Specifically example embodiments provide for mitigating the effects of a power spike for an initial period of time. Specifically example embodiments during an initial time period substitute a power spike that exceeds a threshold value with a value that is less than the threshold value. Once the initial time period has expired and for the duration of a latch time period the value of the input signal cannot be substituted even if the input signal exceeds the threshold value. Thus example embodiments allow a protective device to determine whether the power spike in the input signal is truly a fault condition or is merely a power spike that should not generate a trip signal. Example embodiments allow such a determination without delaying so long as to jeopardize assets within a system when a legitimate fault condition exists.

Example embodiments allow for a reduction in down time by reducing the amount of trip signals that are generated in response to power spikes caused by normal operating conditions that are commonly but incorrectly interpreted by protective devices as requiring a trip signal. Thus example embodiments save in lost opportunity costs as well as unnecessary maintenance and operations costs.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to example embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the example embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the example embodiments is not limited herein.

