---

title: Digital ink based contextual search
abstract: Disclosed herein are representative embodiments of tools and techniques for performing contextual searches using text determined based on digital-ink data. According to one exemplary technique, digital-ink data is received at a computing device and text is determined based on the digital-ink data. Additionally, by an application of the computing device, a contextual search is performed using the text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943092&OS=08943092&RS=08943092
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08943092
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130304
---
Mobile devices with capacitive or resistive touch capabilities are well known. Mobile phones have evolved over recent years to the point where they possess a broad range of capabilities. They are not only capable of placing and receiving mobile phone calls multimedia messaging MMS and sending and receiving email they can also access the Internet are GPS enabled possess considerable processing power and large amounts of memory and are equipped with high resolution displays capable of detecting touch input. As such today s mobile phones are general purpose computing and telecommunication devices capable of running a multitude of applications. For example modern mobile phones can run word processing web browser media player and gaming applications.

As mobile phones have evolved to provide more capabilities various user interfaces have been developed for users to enter information. In the past some traditional input technologies have been provided for inputting text however these traditional text input technologies are limited.

Among other innovations described herein this disclosure presents various representative embodiments of tools and techniques for contextual searching using text determined from digital ink data.

In one embodiment digital ink data is received at a computing device and text is determined based on the digital ink data. Additionally by an application of the computing device a contextual search is performed using the text.

According to another exemplary technique digital ink data is received and text is determined based on the digital ink data. Also the text is sent to an application. Additionally by the application a contextual search is performed using the text.

In another exemplary technique digital ink data is received that is associated with an application and the received digital ink data is committed. Responsive to the committing the received digital ink data text is determined at least by recognizing the digital ink data. Also the determined text is sent to the application that is launched on a computing device. Additionally by the application a contextual search is performed using the text as search term input. Also by the application results are provided for the contextual search based on the search term input.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

This disclosure presents various representative embodiments of tools and techniques for performing contextual searches using text determined from digital ink data. The digital ink data can be generated to produce writing in digital ink displayed in a touchscreen of a computing device. The contextual searches can be performed using determined text as search term input. For example a user can write in the touchscreen in digital ink by contacting the touchscreen to produce digital ink data that can be used to display the digital ink in the touchscreen. The writing in digital ink can be converted into text using the digital ink data and the text can be used by an application to perform a contextual search.

In some implementations the digital ink data can be received at a platform level of the computing device. For example one or more components of an operating system for the computing device can receive the digital ink data based on input from the touchscreen. In an exemplary implementation the operating system of the computing device can include one or more components for digital ink rendering and analysis. In some implementations the operating system can monitor for and or receive the digital ink data until the digital ink data is committed for a contextual search. In some implementations the received digital ink data can be associated with an application at an application level. For example the digital ink data can be associated with a launched application that displays content that is overlapped by the rendered and or displayed digital ink. In another example when an icon for an application is written on before the application is launched the digital ink data can be associated with the application. The digital ink overlapping the application content or an icon for the application can obstruct at least a portion of the displayed image of the application content or the icon for the application. For example the digital ink rendered in the touchscreen display when the digital ink data is received can be rendered and or displayed at least in part overlapping at least a portion of an icon for launching the application in an operating system interface screen.

In some implementations a launched application can include functionality to activate digital ink recognition and the functionality can be used to activate and or prompt the operating system to monitor and or receive the digital ink data based on touchscreen input so that the application can perform a contextual search based on the digital ink data. For example the functionality to activate the digital ink recognition can include activating the digital ink recognition using a gesture on the touch screen selecting a displayed button a key or button press or other like user interface tool.

At text is determined based on the digital ink data. For example after the digital ink data is received the digital ink data can be recognized and or translated into text. In some implementations the writing of the digital ink data can be converted from a digital ink format to text in a text format using one or more recognition techniques such as digital ink recognition or the like. For example the digital ink data writing can be translated into text using a digital ink recognition engine. In some implementations the writing of the digital ink data can be written in a handwriting or other like style that can be translated into text. In some implementations the determined text can be data in a text format such as one or more characters encoded in a digital format that can be interpreted at least by one or more applications. In some implementations the text and or a portion of the determined text is display or is not displayed in the touchscreen display. For example before or after a contextual search is performed using the text the text and or a portion of the text is or is not rendered and or displayed in the touchscreen display. In some implementations the text is determined but not rendered in the touchscreen for display however the data can be stored and or accessible for use by the computing device and its components such as by one or more operating environments and or one or more applications. In some implementations the text can include one or more letters numbers characters words phrases sentences or combinations thereof.

At a contextual search is performed by an application of the computing device using the text. For example a launched application executing on the computing device can use the determined text to run a search using a search functionality of the application. In some implementations the application can include one or more search functionalities and the text can be used to perform at least one search using at least one of the one or more search functionalities of the application. For example the application can include a text search a maps search a search engine a contacts search an information filter or other search functionality. In some implementations as part of the contextual search the application includes an edit field for search term input and the text can be displayed in the edit field. In other implementations the application performs the contextual search without including the text in an edit field for search term input.

At text is determined based on the digital ink data. For example after the digital ink data is received the digital ink data can be recognized and or translated into text. The determined text can correspond to the writing in digital ink based on the digital ink data. For example the determined text can include at least one or more letters numbers characters words phrases or sentences that are written in the display in digital ink. In some implementations the text can be determined by a component of platform such as an operating system.

At the text is sent to an application. For example an operating system can send the text to an application associated with the received digital ink data. In some implementations the application can have the ability to receive text from the operating system. For example the text can be sent to an application using an application programming interface API or other like manner of transferring data to an application.

In some implementations the text can be sent to the application that is launched when the digital ink data is received. In some implementations the digital ink data can be associated with a launched application such that the digital ink displayed from the received digital ink data is rendered and or displayed overlapping displayed and or rendered content of the application in the touchscreen. In some implementations application content can include information rendered and or displayed in the touch screen for the application such as text graphics characters images and the like.

In some implementations the text can be sent to an application associated with the digital ink data that is launched after the digital ink data is received. For example the digital ink data can be associated with the application such that at least a portion of the digital ink rendered and or displayed can overlap at least a portion of an icon for the application displayed in the touchscreen that can be used to launch the application. In some implementations the icon can be an application dynamic icon such that the icon for the application can be dynamic. In some implementations the icon for the application can be associated with a boundary within the touchscreen. For example the boundary associated with the icon can be a displayed border of the icon or a boundary associated with the location and or properties of the application icon in the touchscreen. In some implementations the boundary can be smaller larger or the same size as the displayed border of the displayed icon. In some implementations the boundary can be located in the touch screen relative to the application icon. For example at least a portion of the displayed icon and at least a portion of the area bounded by the boundary can overlap. The boundary of the icon can be determined at a platform level such as by an operating system of the computing device that displays the icon. In some implementations the portion of the digital ink writing displayed within the boundary of the icon is recognized and used for the search.

In some implementations after the digital ink data is received the application can be launched to execute on the computing device and the text can be sent to the application. The text can be determined from the digital ink data at least one of before during or after the application is launched.

At a contextual search is performed by the application using the text. For example a launched application executing on the computing device can use the determined text to run a search using at least one search functionality of the application. In some implementations the application can perform the contextual search automatically or otherwise. For example the contextual search can be performed by the application using the text responsive to receiving the text at the application. In another exemplary implementation the application can input store access or otherwise use the text to perform a search using at least one search functionality of the application. For example the application can input the received text into a data field for receiving search term input for conducting a search using the search functionality of the application. In some implementations the search can be activated and or performed after receiving the text at the application using a user interface search feature of the application. In some implementations the application determines how the text is used to perform the contextual search. For example an application can use the text according to the functionality of the application.

At the received digital ink data is committed. For example when the writing in the digital ink based on the digital ink data is completed the received digital ink data can be committed to signal the operating system that the digital ink data is complete and can be used in determining text for performing a contextual search. In some implementations the operating system continues to monitor for and or receives digital ink data until the digital ink data is committed. In some implementations the committing of the digital ink data includes the operating system of the computing device determining that a committing functionality of the operating system has been activated. For example the commit functionality can be activated using a gesture on the touch screen selecting a displayed button a key or button press other like user interface tool that can be used to activate the committing functionality of the digital ink data. In some implementations when the digital ink data is received such that the corresponding digital ink is rendered overlapping an icon for an application the digital ink data can be committed by launching the application. In some implementations after the digital ink data is received the digital ink data is committed automatically. For example writing with digital ink on an icon for the application can commit the corresponding digital ink data for performing a contextual search by the application.

At responsive to the committing of the received digital ink data text is determined at least by recognizing the digital ink data. For example after the digital ink data is received the digital ink data can be recognized and or translated into text.

At the determined text is sent to an application that is launched on the computing device. For example the determined text can be sent to and received by an application that is launched on the computing device. In some implementations the determined text can be sent to the application using an API. The application that receives the text can be associated with the digital ink data used to determine the text. In some implementations the application that receives the sent text can be launched before or after the text is determined from the digital ink data. In an exemplary implementation after the digital ink data is committed the application can be launched and then the determined text can be sent to the launched application. The text can be sent to the application such that it can be used in a contextual search by the application.

At a contextual search is automatically performed by the application using the text as search term input. For example the application executing on the computing device can use the text to automatically run a search in the context of the application using a search functionality of the application. In some implementations the search is done on the terms or the text. For example the text can be input as search terms into the search functionality of the launched application for conducting the search. In some implementations the application can search one or more databases and or sets of data using the search functionality.

At results for the contextual search are provided by the application based on the search term input. For example results can be displayed and or rendered in the touchscreen that are determined from the search by the application s search functionality that was performed based on the determined text. In some implementations the search results can be provided as content of the application. For example the determined search results can be displayed and or rendered in a screen and or user interface of the application that performed the search using the determined text. In some implementations the application can provide the search results as determined by the application. For example applications can include one or more of various search functionalities and the results determined by the search functionalities can be provided according to the application.

The digital ink and its corresponding digital ink data are associated with the executing application . The digital ink data is associated with the launched application such that the digital ink data is received and the digital ink is written in the touchscreen while the launched application is the active application executing on the computing device . In some implementations the digital ink data can be associated with the launched application such that digital ink corresponding to the digital ink data is displayed overlapping the content of the launched and executing application. After the writing in digital ink is completed the corresponding received digital ink data is committed by activating the committing functionality . The digital ink data is committed to be translated into text. The text is sent to application to be used for a contextual search by the operating system executing on the computing device .

The operating system of computing device receives the digital ink data used to produce the displayed digital ink . The digital ink is writing that includes the word gas in a non text format in the touchscreen . The digital ink is rendered and or displayed in the touchscreen overlapping content of the application such as map content displayed in the touchscreen . The displayed digital ink is rendered based on digital ink data received by the operating system of the computing device .

The digital ink data that is used to render the digital ink is associated with the executing application . The digital ink data is associated with the launched application as the digital ink data is received to produce the digital ink while the launched application is the active application executing on the computing device . The received digital ink data producing the digital ink is used to determine text that is sent from the operating system of the computing device to application for use in a contextual search.

In digital ink is generated and or written in the touchscreen based on user input such as through detected contact with the touchscreen in a motion that writes the letters Na . The operating system of computing device receives the digital ink data to produce the displayed digital ink . The digital ink is writing indicating the name Na in a handwriting and or non text format in the touchscreen . The digital ink is displayed in the touchscreen overlapping the address book application icon . The digital ink is located within the boundary associated with the icon which is the displayed border of the address book application icon . In some implementations the digital ink can overlap the border of the address book application icon . Because the digital ink overlaps the address book application icon the digital ink is associated with the address book application that is launched using the address book application icon . The digital ink is associated with the address book application to indicate that when text is determined using the digital ink data used to produce the digital ink the determined text can be sent to the associated address book application.

The digital ink can be recognized as writing by a digital ink recognition engine of the operating system and the digital ink recognition engine can determine text based on the digital ink . After the text is determined the text can be sent from the operating system to the address book application that can be launched by the address book application icon to perform a contextual search using a search functionality of the address book application. The address book application that the text can be sent to can be launched after the digital ink is rendered and or displayed in the touchscreen .

The displayed search results include a portion of an organized list that is managed by the address book application . The search results include the portion of an organized list of contacts that is associated with the determined text as searched by a search functionality of the address book application . The search results are organized based on an alphabetical order and the search results shown include the portion of the contacts list that includes the name Na and other contacts of the application in an alphabetical order. To produce the search results the address book application performs a contextual search using a contacts search functionality of the address book application based on the text determined from the digital ink as shown in . The text that includes the letters Na is the search term input for the search that produced the search results shown in .

The illustrated mobile device can include a controller or processor e.g. signal processor microprocessor ASIC or other control and processing logic circuitry for performing such tasks as signal coding data processing input output processing power control and or other functions. An operating system can control the allocation and usage of the components and support for one or more applications that can implement one or more of the technologies described herein such as for performing a contextual search based on digital ink data. The application programs can include common mobile computing applications and software e.g. email applications mapping applications calendars contact managers web browsers messaging applications a runtime engine or any other computing applications.

The illustrated mobile device can include memory . Memory can include non removable memory and or removable memory . The non removable memory can include RAM ROM flash memory a hard disk or other well known memory storage technologies. The removable memory can include flash memory or a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card which is well known in GSM communication systems or other well known memory storage technologies such as smart cards. The memory can be used for storing data and or code for running the operating system and the applications . Example data can include web pages text images sound files video data or other data sets to be sent to and or received from one or more network servers or other devices via one or more wired or wireless networks. The memory can be used to store a subscriber identifier such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and an equipment identifier such as an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI . Such identifiers can be transmitted to a network server to identify users and equipment.

The mobile device can support one or more input devices such as a touchscreen microphone camera physical keyboard and or trackball and one or more output devices such as a speaker and a display . Other possible output devices not shown can include piezoelectric or other haptic output devices. Some devices can serve more than one input output function. For example touchscreen and display can be combined in a single input output device. The input devices can include a Natural User Interface NUI . An NUI is any interface technology that enables a user to interact with a device in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like. Examples of NUI methods include those relying on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both on screen and adjacent to the screen air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech vision touch gestures and machine intelligence. Other examples of a NUI include motion gesture detection using accelerometers gyroscopes facial recognition 3D displays head eye and gaze tracking immersive augmented reality and virtual reality systems all of which provide a more natural interface as well as technologies for sensing brain activity using electric field sensing electrodes EEG and related methods . Thus in one specific example the operating system or applications can comprise speech recognition software as part of a voice user interface that allows a user to operate the device via voice commands. Further the device can comprise input devices and software that allows for user interaction via a user s spatial gestures such as detecting and interpreting gestures to provide input to a gaming application or other application.

A wireless modem can be coupled to an antenna not shown and can support two way communications between the processor and external devices as is well understood in the art. The modem is shown generically and can include a cellular modem for communicating with the mobile communication network and or other radio based modems e.g. Bluetooth or Wi Fi . The wireless modem is typically configured for communication with one or more cellular networks such as a GSM network for data and voice communications within a single cellular network between cellular networks or between the mobile device and a public switched telephone network PSTN .

The mobile device can further include at least one input output port a power supply a satellite navigation system receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an accelerometer and or a physical connector which can be a USB port IEEE 1394 FireWire port and or RS 232 port. The illustrated components are not required or all inclusive as any components can deleted and other components can be added.

In example environment various types of services e.g. computing services are provided by a cloud . For example the cloud can comprise a collection of computing devices which may be located centrally or distributed that provide cloud based services to various types of users and devices connected via a network such as the Internet. The implementation environment can be used in different ways to accomplish computing tasks. For example some tasks e.g. processing user input and presenting a user interface can be performed on local computing devices e.g. connected devices while other tasks e.g. storage of data to be used in subsequent processing can be performed in the cloud .

In example environment the cloud provides services for connected computing devices such as connected devices with a variety of screen capabilities. Connected device represents a device with a computer screen e.g. a mid size screen . For example connected device could be a personal computer such as desktop computer laptop notebook netbook or the like. Connected device represents a device with a mobile device screen e.g. a small size screen . For example connected device can be a mobile phone smart phone personal digital assistant tablet computer or the like. Connected device represents a device with a large screen . For example connected device can be a television screen e.g. a smart television or another device connected to a television e.g. a set top box or gaming console or the like. One or more of the connected devices and can include touchscreen capabilities. Touchscreens can accept input in different ways. For example capacitive touchscreens detect touch input when an object e.g. a fingertip or stylus distorts or interrupts an electrical current running across the surface. As another example touchscreens can use optical sensors to detect touch input when beams from the optical sensors are interrupted. Physical contact with the surface of the screen is not necessary for input to be detected by some touchscreens. Devices without screen capabilities also can be used in example environment . For example the cloud can provide services for one or more computers e.g. server computers without displays.

Services can be provided by the cloud through service providers or through other providers of online services not depicted . For example cloud services can be customized to the screen size display capability and or touchscreen capability of a particular connected device e.g. connected devices .

In example environment the cloud can provide one or more of the technologies and solutions described herein to the various connected devices using at least in part the service providers . For example the service providers can provide a centralized solution for various cloud based services. The service providers can manage service subscriptions for users and or devices e.g. for the connected devices and or their respective users . The cloud can provide one or more resources such as one or more search databases or one or more search engines for implementing one or more of the technologies described herein such as for performing a contextual search based on digital ink data .

With reference to the computing environment includes one or more processing units and memory . In this basic configuration is included within a dashed line. The processing units execute computer executable instructions. A processing unit can be a general purpose central processing unit CPU processor in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other type of processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power. For example shows a central processing unit as well as a graphics processing unit or co processing unit . The tangible memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two accessible by the processing unit s . The memory stores software implementing one or more technologies described herein such as performing a contextual search based on digital ink data in the form of computer executable instructions suitable for execution by the processing unit s .

A computing system may have additional features. For example the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism not shown such as a bus controller or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The tangible storage may be removable or non removable and includes magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes hard disks solid state storage such as solid state drives or optical disks such as CD ROMs or DVDs. The storage can store instructions for the software implementing one or more technologies described herein such as for providing contextual search based on digital ink data.

The input device s may be a touch input device such as a keyboard mouse pen or trackball a voice input device a scanning device or another device that provides input to the computing environment . For video encoding the input device s may be a camera video card TV tuner card or similar device that accepts video input in analog or digital form or a CD ROM or CD RW that reads video samples into the computing environment . The output device s may be a display printer speaker CD writer or another device that provides output from the computing environment .

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer executable instructions audio or video input or output or other data in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media can use an electrical optical RF or other carrier.

Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular sequential order for convenient presentation it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover for the sake of simplicity the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed methods can be used in conjunction with other methods.

Any of the disclosed methods can be implemented as computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media e.g. computer readable media such as one or more optical media discs volatile memory components such as DRAM or SRAM or nonvolatile memory components such as flash memory or hard drives and executed on a computer e.g. any commercially available computer including smart phones or other mobile devices that include computing hardware . As should be readily understood the term computer readable storage media does not include communication media such as modulated data signals. Any of the computer executable instructions for implementing the disclosed techniques as well as any data created and used during implementation of the disclosed embodiments can be stored on one or more computer readable media e.g. computer readable storage media which excludes propagated signals . The computer executable instructions can be part of for example a dedicated software application or a software application that is accessed or downloaded via a web browser or other software application such as a remote computing application . Such software can be executed for example on a single local computer e.g. any suitable commercially available computer or in a network environment e.g. via the Internet a wide area network a local area network a client server network such as a cloud computing network or other such network using one or more network computers.

For clarity only certain selected aspects of the software based implementations are described. Other details that are well known in the art are omitted. For example it should be understood that the disclosed technology is not limited to any specific computer language or program. For instance the disclosed technology can be implemented by software written in C C J Java Perl JavaScript Adobe Flash or any other suitable programming language. Likewise the disclosed technology is not limited to any particular computer or type of hardware. Certain details of suitable computers and hardware are well known and need not be set forth in detail in this disclosure.

It should also be well understood that any functionally described herein can be performed at least in part by one or more hardware logic components instead of software. For example and without limitation illustrative types of hardware logic components that can be used include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

Furthermore any of the software based embodiments comprising for example computer executable instructions for causing a computer to perform any of the disclosed methods can be uploaded downloaded or remotely accessed through a suitable communication means. Such suitable communication means include for example the Internet the World Wide Web an intranet software applications cable including fiber optic cable magnetic communications electromagnetic communications including RF microwave and infrared communications electronic communications or other such communication means.

The disclosed methods apparatus and systems should not be construed as limiting in any way. Instead the present disclosure is directed toward all novel and nonobvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments alone and in various combinations and subcombinations with one another. The disclosed methods apparatus and systems are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combination thereof nor do the disclosed embodiments require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved. In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosed invention may be applied it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only preferred examples of the invention and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope of these claims and their equivalents.

