---

title: System and method for communication of an event through a call for media
abstract: Communication about an event is achieved through a call for media, allowing diverse forms of media such as text, audio, picture, and video to be associated with the call for media for a past, present and/or future event, an event being definable by location, a set time, an object, a state of being, an individual, any combination thereof and others, etc. Calls for media need not be stated as direct requests, but may simply be an event name, to which users may respond with related media. Associating specific communication with an event allows all forms of media used or captured to be related to the event for easier tagging, cataloging, or archiving, while also creating a way to alert others that media is desired for an event and can aggregate this media from one or many users, organize and prioritize event-related media to create presentations of the event, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307047&OS=09307047&RS=09307047
owner: 
number: 09307047
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130811
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application 61 742 416 System That Utilizes Media To Respond To An Event Or Location Based Inquiry filed Aug. 11 2012 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to communication using electronic networks such as the Internet or cellular networks. More specifically the present invention relates to a novel communication model that associates communications with an event using the Internet or cellular networks. More specifically still the invention relates to a system and method for enabling a request for media associated with an event and coordinating responses thereto and may be applicable to a number of fields and implementations.

The standard systems of communication with electronic devices including the Internet cellular communications networks etc. allow users to exchange with each other multiple forms of media including text audio images and video among others. For instance on a smart phone i.e. iPhone an individual can communicate via multiple mediums such as instant message phone call email picture live video etc. An individual can also communicate with more than one person at a time such as via three way calling group chats etc. to allow for group communication. In addition an individual can broadcast information to many users over a variety of well known platforms such as Twitter . These platforms allow information to flow from one to many.

These types of communication however do not allow an efficient way of requesting and aggregating specific media for an event. For instance an individual absent from an event may want to know what is going on at the event. If the individual could make a call for media for the event to its attendees they could communicate back with media providing the user with more information about the event. Recent broadcast platforms and applications such as Twitter are great tools for pushing information to the public. However a system that allows the creation of a call for media for an event and automatically aggregates and associates the media to the event in a specific and customizable way might be beneficial in a large number of circumstances.

There are current systems that allow users to share live or recorded media with each other through portable electronic devices. The media that typically exist on these systems are initiated out of the user s own desire to capture the events occurring around the user. This media is generally self initiated and is not automatically associated to the event that is being recorded or to other media that is being captured for the event. For instance a user may want to take video of a family member s wedding and will utilize his her smart phone or other Internet connected or connectable device to record or share the event. However there is a need for a convenient and flexible way for users to ask other users to capture media for an event or location and share this media for a specific event or location.

Event related media collection systems are currently known such as those described in U.S. Published Patent Applications US2013 0130729 A1 US2013 0128038 A1 and US2013 0129232 A1. These applications for example tend to be highly location dependent in their operation. For example a user may be required to be within a certain geographic zone of a specific event in order to participate. In certain applications however it may be advantageous to have greater flexibility in defining an event or topic of interest regarding which media is desired. The known media collection systems also do not offer users a wide variety of definable media restrictions and do not limit media added to each collection based upon the restrictions additional features that may also be useful in certain contexts. U.S. Published Patent Application US2011 0211534 A1 is also heavily location dependent and lacks flexibility with respect to media restrictions. Each of these applications lacks a variety of features that might be useful in certain contexts such as allowing anonymity among users compensation for users that submit media etc. creating a need for a more dynamic method and system that has these abilities.

Additional differences between known media collection systems and the novel communication system and method and associated features of the invention described herein will become apparent from a review of the current disclosure.

In one aspect the invention includes a system and method that allows users to request media for an event from other users. The call for media can be for a specific form or forms of media or any form of media including audio video text etc. Users that receive the call can respond by submitting live or recorded media of the event as a media reply to the call. This call for media function allows users to gain media information about an event by utilizing other users. The call for media can occur before during and or after an event. This system and method may be achieved with any of a wide variety of devices. In one aspect the call for media and the reply with media by users can be achieved with a portable electronic device that is connected to a wireless network such as a smart phone PDA personal digital assistant etc.

In another aspect the invention provides to a user access to a new form of communication that allows various forms of media to be used to communicate about an event. The invention seeks to enable the creating and controlling of a call for media to engage others to submit media for an event and to obtain more media for an event and further specify event details in which users are interested. Users may also add media restrictions to a call for media defining only specific media as acceptable media replies. Additional advantages of certain embodiments of the invention include enabling users to restrict media for an event and prioritize and organize media for a better user experience.

In another aspect with respect to a call for media an embodiment of the invention offers a unique communication tool allowing users to utilize each other to aggregate related media. For instance a user can send out a call for media to other attendees of the wedding to start capturing media before the bride walks down the aisle. The other attendees of the wedding can be notified of the request and utilize their portable electronic devices to start recording the entrance of the bride. Family members that could not attend the wedding in person would then be able to experience the wedding live from multiple camera angles through the Internet. The multiple pieces of media may allow for a fuller and more in depth experience of the event or location from different perspectives. The media can be saved and shared in the future and automatically linked together for easy retrieval and viewing. The request to capture media also allows users to possibly be reminded to capture media for the event which they may not have had the intention to capture or would have forgotten to capture. In addition the user s captured media is now part of something greater than just their own personal collection the user s media is now part of a larger gathering of media that represents an event that can be publicly or privately shared.

In another aspect in addition to personal usage an embodiment of the invention may offer business benefits to users that can create calls for media for events. For example if there are two engineers in the same office building and one engineer is on the top floor and another is on the bottom floor there may be equipment on the bottom floor that the engineer on the top floor needs to inspect. The engineer on the top floor of the building can send a call for media to the engineer on the bottom floor so the top floor engineer can see live video of the equipment on the bottom floor. This can allow the engineer to more efficiently utilize his her time by virtually inspecting equipment without having to waste time going down to the bottom floor and inspecting the equipment physically. The request for video can be sent to a specific engineer on the bottom floor or to the entire team of engineers on the bottom floor if there are multiple pieces of media needed or if there is urgency for action. The media can be captured by the bottom floor engineer and presented for inspection to the top floor engineer live or recorded. It is possible that for a single event there is media required from multiple locations. For instance the engineer on the top floor needs to see how the equipment on the bottom floor is reacting to equipment that is located in another city at the same time. A request for video can be sent to two different engineers at the same time in two different locations. The video captured by these two different engineers can then be displayed either at the same time or consecutively to see how different pieces of equipment are affecting one another. If both media captures are not presented live it is possible that all media can be placed over a general time code to synch all media to see how the equipment affects each other at any given moment.

In another aspect users may benefit by having updated media information about an event to decide where to go or how to prepare. For example a user may want to see which nightclub or bar is popular that evening and can send a request to a few locations to see what is going on at each establishment. By enabling users to respond with media show the line outside of a nightclub or the amount of people in a bar the captured media can now affect the receiving user s decisions on which location to attend.

In another aspect in addition to user generated questions requests a list of preset questions may be offered to users and can be determined by popularity and amount of usage by the user. The call for media not only allows a more social experience between users but also allows for quick media answers enabling a group to be more organized or prepared. Another example of this is firemen debating between two locations that are on fire that they must immediately extinguish. If they receive video responses about the two fires they may be able to assess which one requires a specialized response such as equipment for hazardous materials that one of their fire trucks includes. If they can request and receive video information about the different fires they can better decide which fire truck needs to go to which location and their staff can be better prepared when they reach each fire.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention calls for media and media responses may also be used for social awareness in politics or news. For instance a news organization such as CNN could send a call for media to all users that were standing in Tahrir Square in Cairo during the Egyptian Revolution in 2011. This call for media could let CNN immediately see what was going on from the perspective of individuals in the crowd. This allows a crowd sourcing of live news around a specific event due to users replying to a query with respect to what is going on around them. The reaction of users to capture media can be immediate and the media can be shown live as it is being captured.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention a customizable news source is enabled that allows certain users to act as news reporters who may themselves be stand alone sources of information such as through their respective media replies and or other content. In one embodiment a user may create a type of customizable newspaper by aggregating select reporters into a single source e.g. a news page or feed to get a completely customized news source. Users may be able to pay a subscription fee for each of these reporters directly or to pre made customized sites that have already chosen a select number of reporters among other possibilities. This aspect introduces additional revenue models. For example in a subscription model reporters may share the resulting revenue. Reporters may also be compensated by a portion of advertising revenue generated by content providers utilizing the reporters media in any of a number of ways e.g. flat fee based upon media view e.g. per click revenue subscription fee share etc.

In another aspect even if the reaction of users is not immediate the media captured can still be relevant as long as it fits certain constraints. Such as the media can still be useful as long as the user is within a geographic area or within a specific time frame from the initial request to capture media. Calls to capture media can be tagged or titled to find relation to other captured media or to incentivize capturing of specific content. For instance the call for users to capture media in Tahrir Square can be titled Egyptian Revolution which may link to other revolutionary media from other events or locations. The media can also be tagged as Arab Spring so that the media can be related to the overall peaceful democratic movement that is occurring within the Middle East. Users can search for live media responses or go through recorded content based upon keywords titles or tags that can be given by specific users any user or automatically designated by an electronic device among other possibilities. Users can see when a query was asked or when a media response was given and provide additional comments or related media. Users can also follow specific users for instance if consistently great footage is coming from a college journalist on the ground in Tahrir Square users can follow the amateur journalist and become alerted every time a new piece of media is being captured by him her.

In another aspect the invention enables private calls for media for example a private call for media among a clique of high school students privately asking each other what they are going to be wearing tomorrow. As this event is about what the high school students plan to wear tomorrow generally this event is a type of event with no defined location. The communication of what will be worn tomorrow can best be explained via picture or video as opposed to text. In addition any media that is used to present what will be worn tomorrow can be cataloged and referenced at a later date by the keywords used within the call for media. General questions for each event can be presented to users so that users can easily make calls for media based on general questions or further details added to general questions. The type of event can further limit the possible questions and focus the call for media to desired media. For example the event concerning high school students asking each other what they are wearing tomorrow can be classified as a direct call for media as the user is contacting specific users as opposed to the general public. In addition within the choice of direct call for media one of the standard questions could be what are you wearing tomorrow A user can select that question with the only allowable media reply being either pictures or video. Then the user can choose who will directly receive the call for media out of a list of contacts and those users can immediately receive the call for media. Even with no defined location for an event this system and method can still be utilized to request and pool media for this event.

In another aspect the system and method of the invention are based around public calls for media that are calls for media that are not directly made to specific contacts. Calls for media can be sent to the general public users that subscribe to specific keywords within the call for media users that subscribe to a specific user users that subscribe to a specific location which herein includes a region or area particular users based on their user information history activity or interests preferences a specific location region and or users that are in a specific location region among other possibilities. For instance a public call for media can be made to all users currently listening to a radio station to show the radio personality what they are currently doing. The call for media can be announced via the radio station and sent to users via an application loaded on the user s electronic device that have subscribed to the radio station. If the radio station is broadcast via the Internet the listeners of the station could be located around the world and any subscribed user would receive the call for media. All the responses through the application could be uploaded on the radio station website for public display and further talked about on the radio station. There could be a cutoff time for this call for media that ends the call of media and prevents any further media replies after a certain time. A cutoff time can be set for this call for media due to a radio personality wanting immediate responses from the radio audience and has little need for media replies after his or her time on the radio is over. This call for media is not subject to any specific location however it is still an event for which media replies may be submitted.

In addition in another aspect as described in detail herein a call for media such as the call for media from the radio station can have media restrictions. Media restrictions are restrictions set for the media replies received for a call for media. Media restrictions can be based upon user information a location where media was captured a time at which media was captured etc. For instance there could be blacklisted users who are not allowed to submit media replies due to their account status. Media restrictions based upon time are based upon when media was captured so for instance the media restriction for time could be set to a one hour window from when the call for media was made from the radio station or it could be set from 1 PM to 2 PM EST. If the time media restriction window is set to close an hour after the call for media was sent this means that only media that was captured within that hour will be allowed as a media reply to the call for media. The cutoff time could be two hours from when the call for media was made allowing users to submit their captured media from the first hour for up to one more additional hour before all media replies will not be allowed. Media restrictions allow for media replies that have a higher chance of being desired media by only allowing media that meets certain requirements.

In another aspect the invention enables a media presentation system and method for event related media. By prioritizing and organizing media gathered for an event the media can be experienced in chronological order with the highest priority media of each media type presented first. For instance if there are multiple videos submitted for an event there could be instances of the same media type being received such as two video files that have captured the same time for the same event. There is a possibility of one the video files being of better quality than the other and to best experience the event only the better quality video file should be played. Therefore the system is able to filter through the available event related media and choose the best possible media to represent the event. The prioritization and organization of event related media could also involve the user who is experiencing the event or the technology that is being used to experience the event. Examples of the various types of presentations that can be created and what affects the creation of these presentations are disclosed herein.

In the following detailed description of the invention reference is made to the figures which illustrate exemplary specific embodiments of the invention. It should be understood that varied or additional embodiments having different structures or methods of operation might be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

In one embodiment the invention which may be implemented or embodied as a system method computer readable media or a combination thereof etc. is directed to a communication environment enabling users to send out a call for media for an event. The invention pools together media replies to a call for media and aggregate various media related to an event. Media restrictions can be set with respect to specific media types allowed to be used in response to a particular call for media. Thus the invention creates a communication system that associates media to an event as users are replying with media to a call for media for an event. In addition the invention enables a system that allows users to request media for an event from specific users and creates a community where users can share calls for media and media replies for events privately or publicly.

The invention may be applied to past current and or future events. Calls for media can have a cutoff time that is the ending date or time window for media replies. The cutoff time for calls for media allows media to be obtained within a specific time period and may establish a sense of urgency to submit media. This may be especially useful when for example a user wants to know information with immediacy or when media can affect a user s current or future decision. Calls for media and notifications for upcoming calls for media can be delayed and sent out at set times in the future. This delay can be useful when a reminder needs to be sent out in regards to an upcoming event or when media is needed for a definitive moment during the event. Even without a cutoff time it is possible to only allow media that was captured during a specific time if the media can be authenticated through metadata tags or any other timestamp or similar technology demonstrating that the media was captured during the allowed time period for the call for media or in accordance with any of a variety of other user or system definable parameters.

In addition the invention may allow the user to experience media from an event. As there is additional information that can be associated with media users can have further control over their media experience for an event. The invention may the organization of media sequentially to permit viewing of media over a timeline and allowing the user can skip to any moment of the event to see the media captured at that time. Also there could be multiple forms of the same media type at any given moment of the event such as two video cameras capturing the event at the same time such as from different viewing angles. The system can further prioritize media based upon a variety of determinants such as video quality. One of the videos could have a high quality picture and this higher quality video might have a higher prioritization and on that basis be presented to the user first.

In one embodiment the present invention may be utilized in other forms of communication. The call for media is not limited to direct communication and can be indirectly distributed through mediums such as television blogs and the radio. While users that reply may not be able to reply via the medium through which they received the call for media it is possible that they be made aware of the call for media through these mediums. The call for media can also be distributed directly to contacts through mediums such as text voice image and video. It is possible to directly reply to a call for media through the received medium. For instance an email could carry a call for media and by replying to the email with an attached picture the media is automatically associated in a system of the invention with an event. The system also allows for new chat functions such as creating a public chat about an event that users can post text or any submitted media that will then be affiliated with the event.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which illustrate various embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and operational changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The invention may be applied as a system and method as hardware or software or any combination thereof. For ease of reference the invention or parts of the invention are referred to or illustrated in figures as an application program however this in no way limits the system and method to just an application program.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention illustrates components including server including an application server database database interface and templates and . The application server responds to requests from the user electronic devices using an application client program such as web browser programs HTTP client programs or any client based programs known in the art. Upon accessing the application server through the network using a network address such as an IP address the database interface will give specific access to database depending on the secured identification provided by the user electronic devices i.e. unique username and password .

The database keeps current accurate information about the users and creating and updating calls for media in the communication process. The database comprises of a database program known in the art such as a relational database program. In one embodiment the database includes two database tables user database table and call for media database table . Database tables and will be described with respect to further embodiments of the invention according to but may or may not depending upon an application have the same structural shape and or schema as database tables and . User database table includes user records that may be used in to track user information. Call for media database table includes call for media records which is used to track calls for media.

The database interface may comprise a Common Gateway Interface CGI program a Java servlet or other programmable implementation known in the art to present information in database in a presentable format e.g. HTML page etc. . In one embodiment the database interface uses a secure login password verification for identifying the individual user contacting the Application server . The assigning of a secured login password is explained in greater detail herein. The unique identification will allow the database interface to identify which user record belong to the requesting party and will appropriately give read write capabilities to the user record

The server further stores a display template and an input template which are preferably implemented in a document in which dynamic content may be generated i.e. HTML Extended Markup Language XML Document etc. . Differing variations of the display template and input template exist for both user information and for call for media information depending on the information to be displayed or inputted but a single display template and a single input template are used for illustration purposes in . The display template is used to provide the user electronic devices with specific user information from the database table or specific call for media information from the database table . The database interface generates data into the display template from one or more of the records and in the database . The input template includes fields in which the user may enter information to update the user record . . . or as well as update the call for media record when a user interacts with a call for media.

The database display template and input template are preferably stored in a non volatile storage system such as one or more hard disk drives used by the server for storage. The server may load data from the storage system into volatile memory not shown when processing. Data can also be saved off the server with links or directions where the data is located on the network i.e. cloud storage media hosted by other platforms information from user accounts on other platforms etc. however for illustration purposes the data is depicted as being saved on the server .

The server and user electronic devices may comprise any type of computer device known in the art including server personal computer mainframe workstation hand held device etc. Moreover the server may comprise one or more separate computer systems to run the different program components and . A user is an individual group or entity that is directly utilizing the invention for communication purposes or for marketing or commerce purposes.

Username Provides a unique username that the user uses to access the user account and account related information.

Password Provides a secret password created by the user used in conjunction with the username in order to access the user account and account related information.

User Contact Information Provides an email address of user phone number address chat id and other contact information.

Contact List Information Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the contacts and contact information either submitted by the user or imported from existing contact lists allowed by the user.

Payment Information Comprises one or more subfields indicating payment information i.e. Paypal Bitcoin credit card info etc. .

Related Accounts Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the username and passwords to other accounts online to be used to send information to or gather information from.

User Calls One or more sub fields set by the database interface indicating call for media information that the user has submitted.

User Media Replies One or more sub fields set by the database interface indicating information about media replies that the user has submitted.

User Comments Tags One or more sub fields set by the database interface indicating comments that the user has submitted.

Interest Preference Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing history about the user including preferred media events etc. and the interests and preferences listed by the user during the Full Registration process or assumed by the system through user activity.

User Detail Information One or more subfields indicating whether the user has account restrictions type of user i.e. individual group business entity etc. profile details name address any products services for sale purchase history bank information etc.

Subscription Information Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the location area username event or keyword that the user will receive information on.

Customization Options Comprises one or more sub fields recording customization options on creating calls for media or viewing media for an event.

Location Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing information regarding the users current and past location.

Achievement Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing information regarding the users locked and unlocked achievements.

Record ID Provides a unique identifier generated by the database interface for the each call for media.

Event Info Provides information about the event such as genre date duration individuals involved etc.

Call Info Provides information on the call itself such as the user that submitted the call if the call is public private if the call is sent anonymously similar calls any offered compensation for media replies etc.

Call Schedule Provides information about when the call or notifications about the call will be released and when the call for media expires. Also contains information about who the notifications are for or what content the notifications contain.

Call Receivers Provides information about who receives the call for media. If the call is private then contains information of the contacts who the call is sent to. If the call is public then contains information of the users in the public that receive the call.

Media Replies Provides information on media replies such as which user replied with media when the reply was submitted if reply is public private where the media can be accessed etc.

Event Coordinator Provides information about the event coordinator for the event or call for media and any restrictions content etc. that the event coordinator established for an event or call for media.

Media Authorization Provides media media information that is waiting to be allowed as a reply to a call for media media that has been turned down as a reply to media or media replies that do not pass any media restrictions.

Media Prioritization Provides the prioritization of media that is displayed when a user wants to experience media from an event.

Media Organization Provides information about media playlists that the server or user has created for an event or call for media.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that illustrates an embodiment of the records and but not the only implementation. The database tables and can be structured in many alternative formats to accomplish the present invention.

Typically the application process starts when a program is installed on a user electronic device that allows it to communicate with the server . This program allows users to create calls for media and replies to calls for media. Each user will need to be registered in order to utilize the program which can be done through the Basic and Full user registration process. In addition users can register by using login information already created on different systems platforms through third party programs . API s such as Facebook Login allow users to use existing user account information and content that is associated with those third party accounts. User login information using accepted third party programs can be used to create new user accounts. Once verified third party user account information can create a new user record . . . or . In addition additional user information can be accessed from these third party accounts to create more comprehensive user profile that is alternatively gained through the Full Registration process. The creation of a user community through the Basic and Full Registration process to build the user database table for the program will be explained in conjunction with and .

In one embodiment the Full Registration process also includes collecting additional information from the user regarding the user s interests preferences and subscriptions. By receiving the user s interests preferences more relevant content can by directed towards users such as type of events that align with the user s interests i.e. rock concerts plays etc. or users of similar interests preferences. Also a user can directly subscribe to a location i.e. venue city etc. individual i.e. celebrity friend etc. or any keyword i.e. Coca Cola Boy Scouts etc. to be notified when activity is occurring that is relevant to what they have subscribed to. After receiving the preference information inputted by the user at block the application server requests the database interface to update at block the Interest Preference Information and Subscription Information of the relevant record with the information supplied by the user.

In one embodiment a user can lift restrictions from their account by having the third party login verified through a third party program submitting verified payment information or the user database receiving certain user information through user interest preferences. One of these processes a combination of these processes or parts of each process can be used together to lift restrictions on accounts. Once information is verified the User Detail Information is updated to lift certain restrictions for the specified user record such as the restrictions lifted off of an account with only Basic Registration. The additional user information that is gained from Full Registration does not need to be immediately input after a user record has been created. Users can add or change information within their existing account at a future time. As their user activity is recorded in Interest Preference Information the system is constantly updating the user record with more user information without direct user input. As user activity contributes to user information it may be possible to release restrictions for an account record by completing certain actions within the program. In addition additional information can be added to the user account without the user manually entering information by the program automatically importing information from third party programs i.e. Facebook API Twitter API etc. with their provided third party login information.

Within My Profile a portion of the user s profile information is shown such as the user profile picture provided with information from the user database from User Detail Information for the relevant user. Also under My Profile 29 users are interested in my public activity is stated showing a number of users that have subscribed to this user which can be found through searching other user accounts within the user database within Subscription Information for all users that are subscribed to this user. In addition the statement Linked to Facebook Profile BRIAN.WILLIAMS142 is shown which means that the related account has been established for this profile and provided with information from the user database from Related Accounts for the relevant user. Third party programs can be used with the related account information to pull more user information or media from a third party account or push information i.e. user activity media etc. to a third party account. Also Visa ending in 3488 is shown provided with information from the user database from Payment Information for the relevant user. Next to there is Purchase History which is a link to more information concerning goods or services purchased provided with information from the user database from User Detail Information for the relevant user.

Under Achievements there is a list of achievements that the user can unlock by accomplishing different tasks provided with information from the user database from Achievement Information for the relevant user. An achievement that is locked is First Responder . This achievement becomes unlocked if the user is the first to reply with media to a call for media. An achievement that is unlocked is Gold Medal as the user has accomplished sending a call for media in regards to a sporting event. As there could be multiple unlocked achievements there is a summary of achievements that can be presented next to the user whenever a shorter summary presentation of user information is required. A smaller summary list of three achievements is shown as and the user can change the achievements that are presented in the shorter summary presentation of a user account.

As a call for media can contain a variety of information users can be presented with different options that allow for easier user creation of calls for media instead of manually entering all necessary information. Due to the amount of information needed for each call for media users can be presented with options such as possible people locations events etc. to choose from. The presentation of options i.e. people locations events etc. to users can also enhance user experience by allowing a narrowing down of possibilities for users to choose from. Presenting options to create a call for media can also help explain the usage of the invention by guiding the user through a selection process for each option. In addition a presentation of possibilities can further entice users to create calls for media. The possible calls for media that is presented to a user can be based upon location past history of the user user interests preferences and subscription information.

A possible presentation of the invention is to give the user one or more of the following options to create a request for media shown in . A mobile application is shown in presented on a smart phone . When a user is interested in creating a call for media the exclamation mark button is touched to then display the following options Direct Event Location and Custom . Direct is also called the friends option which would allow the user to call or see live or recorded media from users they have relationships with. Users may want to see where friends family co workers etc. are and what is going on around them. The term friends is a generic holding term that could directly contain or contain subcategories of friends family co workers and other individuals or groups that have a connection to the user. Users can search for other users via contact information such as name phone number email address etc. Pre existing relationships can be automatically pulled from phone lists within smartphones or even from existing social networks such as Facebook as mentioned in the Full Registration process and added to the relevant user s Contact List Information from . Users can also invite individuals they know to join so that they can easily request media from each other. Calls for media can be made to single users or multiple users. Users can be put into different groups for easier creation of calls so groups can be quickly selected instead of selecting individuals to send calls to. The calls for media can be made publicly or privately allowing other users to see whom a user has made a call for media to and who is receiving a call. The calls for media for friends could be based upon a recurring time for instance a user could see what his her friends are doing every Friday at 7 PM. Calls for media can be set on certain days such as birthdays or Christmas to request media on a certain day from other friends. In addition to time direct calls for media could be based upon a certain location such as every time a friend is at a location a call is sent to them for media.

The next presented option to create a call for media is Event this option allows the user to make a call for media for an event. Users can either join existing events or create events themselves. While any call of media is associated with an event defined as an occurrence or happening the option Event is an event that is related to a set time. The event also usually has a defined location such as sports event disaster festival concert etc. The Event option allows users to capture media at certain times and send out notifications before during or after the event. For instance a user can setup a call for media through the event option to capture media at a wedding they will attend in the future. An alert will be sent to all the users that will attend the wedding to capture media and the media can be saved under a user created title such as Mark s Wedding . All calls for media can be public or private and can allow comments or not. For instance for Mark s Wedding a private call for media can be made just to family at the wedding or a public call for media can be made to everyone that is attending the wedding. If multiple users capture media throughout an event the media can be played back when it was captured to create multiple perspectives of a single event. There can also be official responders for any call for media such as for the wedding there could be a professional camera and microphone utilized to capture media for the event. When a request is made to experience the media from the event the feed from the official responders the professional camera and microphone automatically is presented to the user or is the first media option for the user to choose from. Notifications can be sent throughout the event such as more video of the bride is needed or the official responders are not recording at this moment that can affect the direction amount etc. of captured media.

The third presented call for media option is Location the location option would allow the user to create a call for any live or recorded media from a specific location. Locations can be very specific such as longitude or latitude coordinates or names of establishments such as restaurants bars schools etc. These specific location requests can send a call for media currently to users at the location or send a call for media for previously captured media or media that will be captured. It is possible for multiple locations to be returned when the name of an establishment is used such as McDonalds which has multiple franchise locations. Multiple locations can be presented to the user as choices with the order of multiple locations being determined by factors such as distance to where the user currently is past locations that they user has been interested in etc. Various location options can be presented to a user such as venues indicated on a map or the user can create a location such as a point on a map or a virtual location in a video game.

The fourth option presented is Custom which is a customized user creation for a call for media. Users can manually select call options such as call title media restrictions call receivers etc. and see past customized calls to base new calls for media on.

Each of these four options to create a call for media can also have media restrictions that are tailored to each option. Media restrictions are the media constraints stated by the call for media that do not be allow certain media to be automatically accepted as part of media replies to a call for media. There can be different media restrictions that correspond to each presented option such as the Direct option could emphasize on user media restrictions if a media reply is accepted based upon who submitted the media. The Location option could emphasize on the location of captured media and the Event option could emphasize on time of captured media. Each of these media restrictions are discussed in greater detail herein however a benefit of this invention is the convenience of receiving desired media which is further facilitated by the call for media options given to users.

While there are four presented options in this is done for illustration purposes only and does not limit the invention to only these four presentable options to create a call for media. In addition these four options to create a call for media can be mixed together to create further refined searches. For instance a user can request media from all friends within a specific location or find events within a local distance around from a user. This information can be obtained through APIs Application Programming Interface such as utilizing Foursquare API Facebook API or through other geolocation technology. The system can help the user create calls for media by gathering data from social network profiles current location or user patterns. The system could automatically choose media that the user might be interested in and alert the user or even create calls for media for the user automatically. An entire social network can be established based upon this system of requesting and sharing media that can create new options to create calls for media. The ability to request media from others and share media can be the adhesive that brings together a community of users to build a social network. Similar to other social networks users can follow other users or recommend specific users to capture media at an event or location. In addition media requests and captured media can be identifiable characteristics of a social network with users being able to see what specific users are interested in seeing and what other users have captured for media. Requests for media can be made for specific types of media such as for just past pictures or just live video with the media replies automatically filtering for the specific requested media.

The above call for media creation process is further elaborated in where the Application server receives the request to create a call for media as shown in Block . The Application server then builds the input page for the call for media choices shown in Block . The application server can receive one of the four requests for call for media creation Direct Event Location and Custom . Each one of these four requests for call for media creation is focused on a particular aspect of a call for media and each has its own access input template for easier call for media creation. Access input template and build input page for a direct call for media is focused on calls for media to specific contacts. In all the call for media creation options there are two types of calls for media that can be made public or private. Public calls can be based upon location where all users that are typically within a geographic distance of the event or location will be notified that a call for media has been issued. Public calls are open calls to retrieve media from all users near or at an event location. Media responses to a public call can be public or private in other words the media response for the call can either be shown to everyone or just to the caller. Public calls can also be made based upon time as certain events may not have a specific geographic location. For instance users can record media from an online event that does not have a real world geographic location. As public calls are made to the general public private calls are direct requests for media to specific users or user groups. For instance a user can privately request media from a friend at a party and no other users will be able to see the request for media. Private calls can be defaulted to have private media replies however it is possible to have public media replies to a private call. Anonymous calls can also occur where the request for media is made however the caller s information is hidden. Anonymous calls can be made both privately and publicly however all these various call types public private anonymous etc. do not all have to offered. It may be important to distinguish between private calls and anonymous calls with a private call for media being only sent to selected users or groups while an anonymous request for media may be sent to any user with the caller information being hidden from receiving users for example depending upon a particular implementation. There can also be anonymous replies to calls for media where the user that submits media is not revealed.

It is possible that users can send both private and anonymous public requests for media for instance a user can send a private call for media to users that are in their cell phone contact list and for all other users that receive the call for media the call for media will be seen as anonymous. Private calls can be made directly to another user or to a group of users. For instance at a concert a user may want a private experience with only people that the user knows as opposed to joining a public call with all users attending the concert. A private call can be made to a select group of individuals to share media captured at an event for a more intimate experience. This captured media can be made private to only participating users or shared with specific users. While it is possible to pull out media captured by specific users from a public call it may be more convenient or intimate to create the private call for media. Private call lists or specific calls themselves can automatically create private calls for events or locations based upon keywords or tags that are associated with an event locations or geographic proximity. For instance a private call list can have users that will always be part of a private call whenever they are included in a call for media. All media from that user will show up as private while the media obtained from everyone else will be public.

An example of a keyword trigger for a private call is a user that has the word concert as a set keyword to request media from any friend that attends an event with this keyword. The friend will receive an automatic private call to capture media of the concert when the friend attends a concert. A user could desire just to see all friends that are attending concerts and choose to make a call or not. A private call list can be created for concerts and whenever a friend is attending a concert the user can see that a friend is attending a concert. There can be multiple friends attending multiple concerts so the organization or further refinement of these lists can be done via the characteristic of the friend such as family member college buddy over 18 etc. or via the characteristic of the concert name of concert location of venue type of concert etc. . The private call list or automatic call can be made also when friends of users arrive at certain locations such as cities restaurants etc. Also private call lists or automatic calls can occur when a certain geographic distance from a location user or event. An automatic private call can be made to specifically chosen people in the user s call list when an event occurs or the system can automatically populate a private call list for the user based upon users own personal contact lists cross referenced with users at an event locations or geographic proximity. The private call list can automatically expand in the future when more users join an event enter into a geographic location or become a set distance from a user. When a private call is initiated a group is formed and all selected individuals can reply with media that is immediately seen only within the group. It is possible that the caller can setup the private call so that only he she can see the media responses sent by other users or can choose which media replies the rest of the group sees. Other users in the group can possibly see the current settings of each private group that they are participating in to see whether they want to participate in the private call or not. It is also possible for the call to be private until triggered public such as the media response can be made public if there is a corresponding public call for media at that event or location.

Each call setting may be tailored so call creation is easier for a user. Private events are different than private calls a private event is an event that is only seen by a selected set of members. Within the private event there can be multiple calls for media at different times and locations for instance if there is a high school prom private event there could be a call for media for the prom football game and a call for media for the prom dance which would occur at different times and different locations. As private calls are generally more personal then public calls different alerts can be given to the user when a call is received for private calls public calls specific users anonymous etc. Block then builds an input page that is focused on creating direct calls by presenting recently made private calls presenting a list of contacts from the user s account or related accounts and other information that is focused around a direct call experience. After block the application server receives the direct call for media information and waits until the time is reached to send out notifications or actual call for media for the direct call for media .

An alternative choice from Block is a call for media that is based around events which when block occurs block then accesses input template and builds the input page for an event based call for media. The event based call for media is focused around both private and public events has a set time of occurrence and usually a location where the event will occur. In order to facilitate event based call for media creation events can be automatically pulled from user s calendars schedules social networks etc. to easily be used for media viewing or requests. Events can also be pulled via API s from other existing platforms or databases such as Eventbrite to further expand event choices. Calls for media can be scheduled for future events or can be requests for media from present or past events. Events do not have to be location specific for instance the event can be for users around the world to participate in capturing New Years Eve. Events can have virtual locations such as events can occur virtually such as an online game World of Warcraft or at a specific time when using any program or application.

If an event needs to be created an event can be created by selecting from offered popular event types such as a concert wedding birthday etc. Further details can be added such as location date individuals to request media from etc. Calls for media especially events can be created within a few steps such as a one touch button system that automatically creates a call for media based upon current location and time. Or instantly if a user starts capturing media at a location and by submitting media the associated information from the media location and time creates a call for media based upon the information obtained with from the media. Events that are instantly created are still identifiable as location or time can be used to identify the event. Events can also be private or public and be created anonymously or show information of the event creator. After block the application server receives the event based call for media information and waits until the time is reached to send out notifications or call for media for the event based call for media .

Another choice from Block is a location based call for media shown in block which then leads to block . The input page for a location based call for media is focused around a location. The location based call for media is for a user that wants to experience live or recorded media from a specific location. A user is able to see previous locations that they have requested or viewed media from or enter in a new location that they would like to request or view media from. Locations can be presented in a map format with the location being the center of the map and all users within the location or surrounding the location shown on the map. The map can also be utilized to see where current or past media was captured on the map. Information on the map can be filtered such as seeing only friends on a map or where live media is currently being captured. Maps can be extensive and cover wide distances such as for countries or cities or extremely specific such as for buildings or concert venue layouts. It is possible that maps have depth such as the users electronic device can measure altitude to determine height location within a building or outside. In addition an event could be mobile and constantly moving i.e. person parade etc. and the moving location could be represented on a map as well. Users can capture the same event but in different locations to add to a call for media. Locations can also be pulled via API s from other existing platforms or databases such as Yelp to further expand location choices. Calls for media can be based upon location where any user that enters a location will automatically receive a call for media. After block the application server receives the location based call for media information and waits until the time is reached to send out notifications or call for media for the location based call for media .

The last choice from Block is a custom based call for media which is block that leads to block that accesses input template and builds input page for a custom based call for media. The custom option to create a call for media enables the creation of a call that is personalized to specific details. Users that either want to have more control over a call or like to have their calls setup in a particular fashion can prefer this option. Possible users that may frequent this option are businesses event coordinators etc. Previously created or drafted custom calls can be shown along with many of the call details from a call such as Call Schedule Cutoff Time Call Info etc. While each of the four call for media options has a different presentation of information it is possible for the same call for media to be made across all these options. For the custom option any type of call for media can be created and so the focus of presentation is the ability for users to control the details for a call for media. For example the call schedule and cutoff time can be manipulated to send out notifications and calls for media at specific times. Whether a private or public call is made there can be time limits to respond to a call.

There are many types of time limits and time settings such as setting when a call for media will end or preventing media replies after a certain period. For instance if a call is made from Los Angeles at 4 PM PST to see what is going on at a factory in Bejing China the call can have a time restriction of 2 hours before expiring. The user in Los Angeles only has use of the media reply before the Los Angeles office closes a 6 PM PST. Notifications for the call can also be drastically altered such as alerting users in a private call every 5 minutes for the next hour that a call is occurring or will occur. Or sending out a notification at a specific moment during an event while the call for media is occurring so that users focus capturing media on a specific subject at the event. The call schedule and cutoff time is different than the media restriction of time. The media restriction of time is a window s of time that media from an event will be allowed. The time the media that was captured must fit within the set window of time to be accepted as a media reply for an event or location. For instance if a video was captured at the end of a Broadway musical show and the window of time for captured media was set for the beginning to the middle of the show the media would not be accepted as a reply to the call for media. Although the media is for the same event it will not be accepted as a reply to the call for media as it is footage from the end of the show as opposed to the beginning or the middle. The custom option can list all the media restrictions that can be added to a call for media so that the user can choose the settings for each desired media restriction. After block the application server receives the custom based call for media information and waits until the time is reached to send out notifications or call for media for the custom based call for media .

In addition Block updates the call for media s relevant Call Info field to active. Block leads to block where all users that have either subscribed to the user location or any keyword that might be associated with this public call for media are notified by comparing the information from the call for media with user Subscription Information from user database . Block also leads to block where the public call for media is post on the caller s related third party accounts such as a Facebook and Tumblr account obtained through relevant user information from Related accounts from user database . The invention may offer available broadcast tools such as a Twitter account that is set up to announce all public calls for media through third party programs that are connected to the network .

In addition block leads to block which find users that are within a certain distance from the call for media location. The location of users can be found in real time by pinging users that are around a location accessing social media information to see if the user is or has been around a location or by checking user database in Location Information to see where users are or where they have historically been to see if they are around a location. Location Information can be obtained through APIs Application Programming Interface such as utilizing Foursquare API Facebook API or through other geolocation technology from the user s electronic devices GPS distance from other electronic devices etc. . The system can assess possible user location to store in Location Information by gathering data from social network profiles current location or user patterns. If any users are found within the certain distance of a location then block occurs where the call for media is sent to these users that are within a certain distance of a location. The location of the event is found in the relevant record from the call for media database in Event Information and the certain distance from the call for media location is found in the call for media database in Media Restriction .

Users can be contacted through one or multiple ways from information obtained in their user record . . . or in the field User Contact Information for example a push message could be sent to their cell phone and an email could appear on their laptop notifying them of a call for media. If no users are found within a certain distance from the call for media location from block then block occurs and checks whether the cutoff time for the call has been reached. Also if users have been sent the call for media in block then the next block is also . The cutoff time is accessed through the call for media database in Cutoff Time and compared against the current time. If the cutoff time to end the call for media has been reached then block occurs and the call for media is closed. If the cutoff time is not reached then the call for media remains opened in block and passes to block where the application server checks to see if any notifications need to be sent in regards to the call for media. Once this is completed the process loops back to block and checks again to see if any new users are within a certain distance of the call for media location. The process continues until the cutoff time is reached and the call is closed . A similar loop occurs for the private call after block where at block the cutoff time is determined to be reached or not. If not then the call remains active and the application server checks to see if any notifications need to be sent out . The process loops back to to see if the cutoff time has been reached and when the cutoff time is reached the call for media is closed .

The invention may allow the server to proactively create calls for media and send them to users based upon user s location information activity history interests or preferences. For instance a call for media can be created without direct user input and sent to users such as a user enters into a location and automatically receives calls for media for events around them. For instance by walking down Main Street at Disneyland a system of the invention can automatically utilize user information and location and create and send a call for media about the Main Street parade candy stores restaurants magic store and other stores entertainment occurring on Main Street. A user could then take a picture or text and respond to any of the calls for media through their mobile phone. Users can share calls for media or their replies to calls for media to other specific users. Public calls can be shared however for private calls it is possible that a majority of the callers the event administrator or call creator will need to authorize each piece of media that wants to be shared acceptable users to share media with or additional participants to receive the call. In addition calls for media can automatically be created if a certain amount of users congregate to an area at the same time or are known to all be doing the same activity at the same time. For instance a call for media can automatically be created and sent to users who possibly do not even know each other that happen to be at Central Park Zoo in New York at the same time. A call for media can also be sent to users who are doing similar activities at the same time for instance users who happen to be at two separate Chinese restaurants for lunch can receive a call for media and they can share their experience eating Chinese food at two separate restaurants.

Now is chosen from the menu and provides the most recent information related to the user. Presented are two private calls for media displayed along with media replies to the public call for media that was created by this user. shows the name and picture of the user that has replied to the call for media sent by this user from call for media database from Media Replies . shows the reply was made 7 minutes ago in Westchester Calif. also from call for media database from Media Replies . is the title of the call for media from call for media database from Title of Call for Media . is a preview for a media reply from call for media database from Media Replies and shows that there is another media reply that has been made to this call for media. and shows the options like comment share along with options represented as a thumbs up and a dialog box this information can be associated with call for media database from User Feedback to Replies and directly link to third party programs to post on user s third party accounts. is a call for media made by user Sean Bryant from call for media database from Call Info to a group team wool that this user is part of from call for media database from Call Receivers . and shows the options like and comment along with options represented as a thumbs up and a dialog box this information can be associated with call for media database from User Feedback to Calls and directly link to third party programs to post on user s third party accounts. Unlike the term share is removed as this call for media is private and not be shared with others outside of team wool . is a reply function that allows this user to reply with media to this call for media.

If media replies are not allowed then the request to reply with media is refused and a notification is sent to the user on why the media reply was refused . If media replies are allowed after the cutoff date block checks Media Restriction to see whether the user is allowed to reply to this call for media. User restrictions can exist due to the type of account a user has or the status of the user s account. Even though a public call may be made to all users not all users will be notified to respond or even allowed to respond. There can be bad responders that are consistently replying with unrelated media or explicit media that will be blacklisted from responding to all public requests. There can also be users that abuse the system in various other ways such as setting up fake events or pretending to be other users that will also cause them to be kicked off the system or blacklisted from public or private responses. If the user that is submitting the request to reply to a call for media does not meet the user restrictions i.e. blacklisted users basic registration users etc. then the request to reply with media is refused and a notification is sent to the user on why the media reply was refused .

If no user restrictions exist or if the user is not restricted to replying with media then block occurs. Block checks against the media restriction of any specified window of time the media reply needs to be within. The call for media can require that media must be within a specific time period found within database from Media Restriction . Media must be captured within certain windows of time in order to be allowed as a reply to a call. As long as the media can be verified via a time stamp metadata or other tags and associated information then the media can be allowed as a reply to the call for media. For instance if a photograph has a time stamp to prove that it was taken within the window of time then the request would continue to block . Also if there is no media restriction in regards to the time when media was captured then the request can continue to block . If the media is outside the window of time allowed for the media then the request to reply with media is refused and a notification is sent to the user on why the media reply was refused .

Block checks whether the media was captured within a set distance from a location of the event. The call for media can require that media must be within a certain distance of an event location this distance is found within relevant record found in call for media database from Media Restriction and is utilized with the relevant event location found in Event Info . As long as the media can be verified to be within a certain distance from an event location via a location stamp metadata or other tags and associated information then the media can be allowed as a reply to the call for media. There could be multiple locations for a call for media and each of these events can have their own set allowed distance. Included within the associated information for media can be information provided by the application or user electronic device that can be used in the media restriction process.

Both the application and user electronic device can provide information to verify whether media passes certain restrictions or not without relying upon information from the media itself. For example an electronic device can associate captured media to a time or location without the time or location information being directly placed next to or embedded within the media. If no media restriction is set based upon location or if the media is captured within the set distance around the event location then block occurs. If the media reply is outside the set distance from the event location allowed for the media then the request to reply with media is refused and a notification is sent to the user on why the media reply was refused .

Block checks the media reply against the media restriction for any specified media type or format. For example the call for media can restrict users to only allowing text and audio and no pictures or video thereby limiting media replies to text and audio. If a request to reply with media is submitted and the media is any restricted media type then the media reply will be refused and a notification will be sent to the user of why the media reply was refused . The call for media can also restrict the format of media for example within audio media MP3 files may be acceptable however WAV files are restricted. Therefore any restricted formats or types found in the relevant record from the call for media database from Media Restriction will also be refused as in block .

If no type or format of media is restricted or if the media passes the restrictions set for type of format of media then block occurs. Block checks against any memory size restrictions set for media replies. The call for media can require the amount of memory used for media set to a minimum size maximum size between sizes or an exact size. Media memory restrictions are found within the relevant record in the call for media database from Media Restriction . As long as the media can be verified via size calculation metadata or other tags and associated information then the media can be allowed as a reply to the call for media. For example a user may only be able to experience limited media files due the limited data plan that they have or poor network connection. When this user sets up a call for media a media restriction can be established that no media is allowed over 1 MB in size so that the user can receive smaller media reply files.

If no media restriction is set based upon memory size for media or if the media passes any memory size restrictions then block occurs. If the memory size for media does not fit media restrictions the reply will be refused and a notification will be sent to the user of why the media reply was refused . Block checks against any quality restrictions set for media replies. Media quality restrictions are found within the relevant record in the call for media database from Media Restriction . Quality restrictions can be found by analyzing the media itself analyzing the connection of devices to the network or through analyzing the associated information with media. Analyzing the media itself can be done via programs checking quality of media such as image stabilization pixilation for visual media sound clarity volume for audio etc. If the media quality does not fit media restrictions the reply will be refused and a notification will be sent to the user of why the media reply was refused .

If there are no quality restrictions established or if the media passes any quality restrictions then block occurs. Block check against any media length restrictions found within the relevant record in the call for media database from Media Restriction . Media length restrictions are for media replies that represent more than one moment in time such as video and audio where duration of the media is the media restriction. For instance a call for media could have a maximum length of 8 seconds for each media reply or another call for media could have a minimum length of 10 minutes for audio. If the length of media does not fit media restrictions the reply will be refused and a notification will be sent to the user of why the media reply was refused .

If there are no media restrictions on the length of media or if the media passes any length restrictions block occurs. Block accesses the display template and builds a display page with confirmation of posting the media reply. If the media reply is confirmed the application server receives the media reply confirmation and the media reply is associated with the call for media and the relevant record in the call for media database for Media Replies is updated. If block the confirmation to post the media reply is denied the reply will be refused and a notification will be sent to the user of why the media reply was refused .

While illustrates a linear logic progression for allowing media replies to become associated with calls for media the media restrictions can occur in any order in addition there are combination of media restrictions that can also occur along with additional restrictions. It is possible for a program or electronic device to automatically reformat media replies to fit the requirements for a call for media. For instance if a media restriction exists requiring media replies to be ten seconds in length and a 5 minute video clip is submitted as a media reply. The 5 minute clip could automatically be reduced to 10 seconds and then be used a possible media reply so that it fits the media length restriction. Media replies that are denied due to a media restriction can be held within Media Authorization . If media replies need to be manually confirmed before being associated with a call for media the media replies can also be held within Media Authorization before being either confirmed or denied as media replies to a call. Media replies that are held within Media Authorization can show as a media reply within the account that posted the media reply but no other account sees the media reply until it becomes authorized. As contains multiple media restrictions it is possible to remove media restriction blocks steps if certain media restrictions are not offered.

The call for media for each event would be found in Call for Media . The event could have a master call schedule in Call Schedule so that the public is not inundated with calls for this event and public calls are sent out at predetermined times e.g. every ten minutes or other suitable interval or in accordance with other criteria instead of all at once. There could be minimum maximum or exact media restrictions set in Media Restrictions for all calls made for the event. While many field names remain the same between the call for media database and the event database the event database is structured around events instead of calls for media and the fields now represent the event instead of specific calls. For example Media Replies may contain replies for the entire event instead of replies for specific calls however the information in each field contains the related call information to know to which call the information in each field relates.

The program logic may also need to change to accomplish the creation of a call for media and reply to a call for media however the overall concept and understanding through provided illustrations and descriptions should allow someone having ordinary skill in the field of the art to understand how this would be achieved without additional explanation.

Password Provides a secret password created by the user used in conjunction with the username in order to access user information and other member only information.

User Contact Information Provides an email address of user phone number address chat id and other contact information.

Contact List Information Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the contacts and contact information either submitted by the user or imported from existing contact lists allowed by the user.

Payment Information Comprises one or more subfields indicating payment information i.e. Paypal Bitcoin credit card info etc. .

Related accounts Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the username and passwords to other accounts online to be used to present information to users on different systems platforms or to gather information from.

User Events One of more sub fields set by the database interface indicating event information such as events that the user has created is event coordinator for or has made a call for.

User Media Replies One of more sub fields set by the database interface indicating information about media that the user has submitted.

User Comments Tags One or more sub fields set by the database interface indicating comments that the user has submitted.

Interest Preference Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing history about the user including preferred media events etc and the interests and preferences listed by the user during the Full Registration Process or assumed by the system through user activity.

User Detail Information One or more subfields indicating whether the user has account restrictions type of user i.e. individual group business entity etc. profile details name address any products services for sale purchase history bank information etc.

Subscription Information Comprises of one or more sub fields that contain the location area Username Event or keyword that the user would like to receive information on.

Customization options Comprises one or more sub fields recording customization options on creating calls for media or viewing media for an event

Location Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing information regarding the users current and past location.

Achievement Information One or more subfields set by database interface providing information regarding the users locked and unlocked achievements.

Event Info Provides information about the event such as genre date duration individuals involved etc.

Call Info Provides information on a call for media made for the related event record if call can be public private similar calls any possible offered compensation for media replies etc.

Call Schedule Provides information about when a call or notifications about the call will be released for the related event record and when the call for media expires. Also contains information about who the notifications are for or what content the notifications contain.

Call Receivers Provides information about who receives the call for media for the related event record. If the call is private then lists the contacts who the call is sent to. If the call is public then list which users in the public receive the call.

Media Restriction Provides information about any media restrictions set for a call for the related event record.

Media Replies Provides information on media replies for the related event record such as which user replied with media when the reply was submitted where the media can be accessed etc.

User Feedback to Calls Provides information about any user feedback to a call for the related event record.

User Feedback to Replies Provides information about any user feedback to a media reply for the related event record.

Event Coordinator Provides information about the event coordinator for the event and any restrictions or content that the event coordinator wants the user to experience for an event.

Media Authorization Provides media or location of media that is waiting to be allowed to be a reply to a call for media or media that has been turned down as a reply to media for the related event record.

Media Prioritization Provides the prioritization of media that is displayed when a user wants to experience media from an event or call for media.

Media Organization Provides information about media playlists that the server or user has created for an event or call for media.

All retrieved related information can be compared so that a better understanding is obtained of how the media relate to one another. There could be hundreds of pieces of media that are compared against each other or a single piece of media could be compared against media that has already been organized and prioritized. At block the media is then organized and prioritized by utilizing compared information from all event related media. For instance two users with smart phones and one user with a cell phone can be at a political debate. One of the smart phone users can be recording live throughout the entire debate while the other smart phone user records only the first half of the debate but does not upload the footage immediately. The cell phone user only takes pictures and captures live sound from the second half of the debate. The event related media can then be experienced as separate from each user s perspective chronologically or mixed together.

It is possible for different types of media to be laid over another and playback in sequential order. For example in a playback mode a user can view tweets laid over pictures taken at an event in chronological order for tweets and pictures. Also if there are two video recordings taken at the same time from two separate users and one of the video recordings has great sound while the other has great visuals. The better sound file can be presented with the better visuals as the video and sound from the two separate pieces of media can be synchronized with each other through their related time information. It is possible that the best audio file from the event is from the event coordinator s official microphone and this sound can be used with any video taken from the event that can be placed within a time code.

The media can be switched in real time so that users watching a broadcast can see the video a user is taking however will be listening to the audio from the official microphone that the event coordinator has authorized. In addition to pieces of media having different prioritizations sections of a piece of media can have different prioritizations ranking and be exchanged for other pieces of media. For instance the first 10 minutes of video can have a high ranking while the last 5 minutes has a low ranking and could cause the last 5 minutes to be changed out with higher ranking media.

In addition to time another detail of associated information with event related media that can be compared is location of captured media. The location of where media is captured can be part of the prioritization and organization of event related media. For instance the distance from an event or the distance between two pieces of captured media can help determine how the media should be organized and prioritized. For example media that is captured around the same location such as all within the left side of a stage during a concert would not necessarily bring about the best presentation experience by only showing the perspective from the left stage of a show. The presentation could utilize the best media from the left stage and then switch during the playback of the event to different locations that also had captured the event. This way there could be various perspectives of the event instead of a constant perspective from one side of the stage. In addition the proximity to the event can lead to a higher prioritization with media closer to the event location ranked higher.

Moreover event related information can be compared due to user s feedback or interaction with event related media. For example users can possibly rate all media from an event that is broadcast live or played back from recording. There are multiple factors that determine whether media has high value or not. A piece of media whether it is video text sound etc. may have low quality but captures something that is not found in any other piece of media. For instance a user waving a camera trying to record an event with an object in the way may be hilarious because it is shot in poor quality. Due to the poor quality of media a computer utilizing rules and algorithms to determine its priority rank would rank it low however users may think it is funny and therefore give the media a high priority rank. This high priority rank can be obtained indirectly via comments likes and other media interaction i.e. tags number of views etc. . In addition a user maybe sitting next to another user which would give the media a relative low value from a lack of perspective change however the angle from that specific seat allows light to land just right on the individual or item that is being captured and so the media is given a high rating. User rating allows human judgment on which pieces of content have value and can also be part of the priority ranking system to determine the order of media sent to users.

Additional factors that may be considered and compared in accordance with the invention include the identity of the user who is capturing the media and what technology is being used when capturing media. Different users can affect the prioritization of media based upon their status or past history. Black listed users can be banned only allowed to participate in private events or only allowed to participate in public events with certain forms of media. White listed users could be users who have not been flagged for indecent content and have an established a network of contacts through their phonebook or social networks. Subtle indications that users may be inappropriate users are if their contacts from their phone or social networks have been flagged for indecent content. Indecent content can be anything that is considered offensive by the public including racist sexualized or violent media. If the user constantly uses profanity in their texts chats tweets etc. the user can also be ranked as more offensive. The status of the user that is capturing the media can be used as part of the priority ranking system to determine the prioritization of the media reply.

In addition the technology that is used when capturing media for an event can also be considered when organizing and prioritizing media. Not all media capture devices are the same. Some devices have extremely fast access to a network while others can only receive or send limited data. Other devices have slower processors that do not allow video to quickly be sent over a network or some have applications or operating systems that hinder the ability to broadcast media. Many devices do not have equivalent media capturing technology such as the superior iPhone 4S camera versus the BlackBerry Torch 9800 camera. In addition not all devices have equal capturing technology such as image stabilization or auto focus so the device itself can be used as part of a ranking for quality of media captured. Devices and or their attachments applications and operating systems can affect the quality of media seen by other users and can also be part of the ranking system to determine the order of media sent to users.

For devices that are not technologically superior to others it is possible that the content captured could be of better quality due to environmental conditions and or a user s ability. Thus the quality of the content itself may also be considered and compared. For instance a user that is holding up a tablet with a high resolution camera may shake the device more than an individual holding up a phone with a low resolution camera. The device with cruder technology but is held more steadily may have preferred content as compared to the device with better technology. Characteristics such as camera stability contrast and focus can all be factors used in ranking images.

These characteristics can be automatically determined via algorithms to determine whether a picture or video was stable out of contrast or out of focus. Fast shifting devices that have movement sensors built within them such as gyroscope technology can add to the determination of the stability of the picture. In addition the sound captured can help determine the quality of the image such as a clear sound signal of a performance means that there is a higher chance the user has a clear line of sight. The quality of the content captured can also be part of the ranking system to determine the media sent to users.

The prioritization and organization of existing related media can also be used to enhance the existing media to create new media or new media experiences that did not exist before. It is possible that from all the gathered visual and audio content the visual and audio content obtained from each portable electronic device can be enhanced. For example an algorithm can compare the various gathered content and then enhance a photo video or sound based upon information from the alternative content. For example multiple sound feeds could come together and gather the clearest sound from all the feeds or using algorithms to pull the intended sound from the feeds enabling a superior new sound to be created and used for a portion of an event.

An enhanced experience of the event can occur with superior viewing or listening technology with large bandwidth connection such as a large monitor or multiple monitors showing all pieces of media from the event off of a portable computer or server. This can recreate the concert from all captured angles with all possible media for a very unique experience. Media does not necessarily have to be saved on the same server or storage location as other media. Instead media may be saved to portable storage accounts that have been associated with the user. For instance one could send a copy of portable recorded media to a Google cloud storage account while capturing an event. This data saved on a cloud storage device can be fed into the application and also receive the same tools offered by the application.

The prioritization and organization of existing related media can also be used with added effects creating different presentations of media. There can be added effects while experiencing the media either within or between each piece of media. For instance when watching a live video broadcast the feed may change to another device and during this change the user may see a fade out of the previous video and a fade in of the next video. While these added effects may add aesthetic value they could also add a utility value as there may be needed time to load each new piece of media. For instance all phones or some phones may not have the technology needed to allow the media to flow uninterrupted in a timeline sequence when either the media is changed by the user or if the media is changed by the server.

A special effect commercial or information etc. can be used as a placeholder until the next piece of media loads. Each piece of media could also be shown in a different style to distinguish the category of the media. For instance all comedic text could be in a large bubbly font while all dramatic text could be in italic. Also the ranking of the media could be shown either by stating the rank of the media while the media is playing or by adding another effect to the media such as a hue of color to acknowledge the ranking grade. Borders can be added to the playback of media or settings can be created on how media should be placed. Collages of media from the same event can also be shown at the same time with pictures from a user s private group flowing in and out on the bottom left hand side of the screen with video from the public call for media playing in the center and with text scrolling on the lower right of the screen. Live media or previously captured media can also be mashed together as a group or organized separately based upon a user s own presentation choice.

Users can create their own playback presentations that other users can experience or playback presentations can be created utilizing themes. For instance users may also tag certain media allowing an easy categorizing of media for experiencing later. For instance all the tweets and video that are tagged as funny can be played in chronological order all together. This is unique as one can experience the same event with multiple themes. Users can see the dramatic version of an event and also see the romantic version of the same event. The romantic version can have the chats messages between lovers over romantic photos taken from the event. The event coordinator can manually change the prioritization and organization of each piece of media and only authorize select presentations of the event.

The organization and prioritization of event related media could be prepared in advance or done in real time when the media is experienced. There can be multiple playlists available as each one can be relative to what the experiencing user desires out of the accessible media. It is possible that the user selects one of the playlists or one of the playlists is automatically selected for the user. The user s device can also be taken into consideration when experiencing event related media as there are limitations to each device when experiencing the event related media. For instance when experiencing media on a portable electronic device the limitation of bandwidth connection to the network and screen size must be taken into account.

If an event or location has multiple users capturing media it may not be possible for all forms of media to be sent and viewed on all portable electronic devices. For example not all smart phones currently have the connection speed and screen size to effectively view live video broadcasts of an event at the same time. The amount of content that is sent to the portable electronic device may need to be limited so that the user can have a good experience of the event media. Not only must the content be more aligned to the user s possible interests the user interface with the media must match the amount of content that the user is able to see on the device. At block the user s information user s device and network connection is received to further organize and prioritize media to tailor the presentation for the user that is interested in experiencing the media. The organization and prioritization of event related media can also be affected by the user s own interest preferences along with the technology the user is experiencing the media with occurring at block .

The organization and prioritization of media can be tailored to each user depending upon information that is provided in regards to the user as shown in block . A user s interest preferences subscriptions and history can affect the organization and prioritization of media as the playback can be tailored to each specific user. Also when the presentation is played the type of media that is played and the current location of the user experiencing the media can also affect the presentation. For instance at a concert a user may not place much value on being able to see media captured from the seat behind the user. On the other hand the user may value seeing the perspective from the front row stage left or stage right or center rear. Each of these cameras has a unique perspective of the show and can be used as indicators to which content the user will receive.

Geolocation can allow each of the portable electronic devices to be tagged with a location and in turn can find the portable electronic devices in different areas of an event. Also geolocation can find where the user experiencing the media is currently located and start with media that is furthest away from where the user s current position is to give the user the most different perspective. A possible user interface can exist where users can see where each user is on a map of the event for each given type of media such as the location of each user who is capturing video. It can be even more exact if a seat number is given to the application against a seating map of an event and the seat number shows the exact seat that a user is in. This type of ranking of media based upon location can be another determinant in the media that is presented to users. In conjunction with the user located at the event the time of when the user is experiencing the media and the experienced media format being live these factors can notify the a system of the invention to take into account the user location when organizing and prioritizing media for presentation to the user. In addition the user s history can reveal a tendency to experience video media as opposed to pictures so video will have a higher priority than pictures.

In if a user is playing back an event for the prepared media presentations every time the event is played back on the device the user can have a new experience by playing back a new sequence of content. Pieces of media such as video sound and text can be chosen whether to be incorporated into either broadcasts or playbacks such as a user can choose to hear the sound and view the text coming from each user whose video is currently showing. Or the user can just choose to hear the sound and view the text but not the video of an event. When watching a live event the feed will automatically switch between the highest ranked cameras and perspectives. If a device that is capturing the media is dropped the ranking system will automatically change the live feed to the next highest ranked camera. Media whether for live or replayed events sent to a device can have a various degradation of information to allow for improved performance. For instance if a portable electronic device can view high resolution content but has a bad connection then the media sent to the user s device changes to a less resolution version until a good network connection is established. Also it is possible the queued feeds are too much information for the user s device to allow smooth playback of the current feed so the information for the queued feeds can be consecutively minimized such as the second feed can have 75 of the information and the third feed can have 50 of the information with the fourth feed having 25 of the information.

Due to the limitations of portable electronic devices such as bandwidth screen size processing power memory etc. the application can take the various details that determine the order of media sent to users and create a more enjoyable experience for a specific device. Instead of sending all event related media at any given moment of the event some of which may have low utility for the user the application can select which media to send the user on his her device based on the presentations of media with the highest priority media of each type presented first . The highest ranked media type means the highest priority media within each type of medium such as the highest priority video out of all video at that specific moment to present to the user. The highest ranking media will start playing on the users screen and the user can use the device s touch screen if the device has one to change the media to another piece of media in real time of the event. For instance while watching the live event on a smart phone a user can swipe across their phone to bring in another camera perspective of the event. By only sending specific media there can be little to no break between the playing the new camera feed. It can be a smooth fluid like experience of switching through media that is playing on a sequential timeline. When switching to another feed each consecutive feed is media can have equal or less priority rank determined by the ranking system.

In addition shows the sound coming from a different source than both the video feeds at by directly coming from the sports announcer at the game. The sound is a higher prioritized sound than any of the video captured sounds and therefore chosen to play first. It is possible to also change the sound to the next prioritized sound or customize the player to play sound that is part of each video file. Also shown is a tweet message or text at any given moment during the event and shows any captured still images at any given moment. Any medium can be the main focus of the playback take up a majority of the screen and any medium can be changed to present the next prioritized media within that medium.

In one embodiment this is achieved using a few streams of media being queued into the device e.g. the next four swiped videos may be ready to play at any given time. As the event is playing on the device the next queued media pieces are always changing to match wherever the timeline currently is. If there is a higher ranked piece of media for any given moment then any of the currently queued media or media that is playing then the queued media or playback media can be replaced with the higher ranking media. The automated switches between media can be regulated so that there is a minimum amount of time played for each media piece or else the media could constantly flutter between different pieces of media and disturb an otherwise enjoyable user experience depending upon a particular user s preferences. The automated switches between media could also be done via special effect transitions such as fades or wipes so that the different media pieces flow together for an event instead of jumping from one piece of media to another.

It is possible that event coordinators can also place information notifications goods service to purchase or any other content before during or after any media shown from an event. For example when a cameo guest appears on stage the name of the guest may be announced live through the application or a shirt may be offered for sale every time a section of the event is replayed during and after the concert etc. It is possible that event coordinators can preset times when information is released to users before during or after an event. For example at 1 hour into the event a message can be sent to all users of the application to hold their cell phones in the air. It is possible that users can be notified individually or by group when they are to take action such as to enter or exit certain locations. It is also possible that event coordinators can ban any media that they deem as not appropriate for the event by selecting specific content or banning the entire media obtained from a specific user or group. It is possible the event coordinators can have a list of specific individuals or groups to collect specific media types for the event. Both the ban of media and the list of authorized users can be recommended or voted upon which can be automatically authorized or manually authorized by the event coordinator. It is important to note that is merely an example of how to present media replies to calls for media. It is possible that both calls for media and media replies are presented in a calendar or timeline format to show information within a daily weekly monthly or yearly format.

Users may be given an option to follow other users and be notified when a user either calls or responds with media. A user can follow a friend and be notified each time a public call or response is made from the friend. Celebrities can exist on the social network and ask their following users to obtain media about an event or location and all their followers can be notified that a call for media has occurred from the celebrity. Users can also follow certain locations or events and be notified when calls or responses have occurred for a location or event. Users can also be alerted when a media response occurs by specific users or groups such as a user is alerted when live video is captured by a family member.

The social network can work with any platform such as Facebook or Path or possibly be incorporated within the system itself. Users can have different privacy settings to allow others to view retrieve or interact with certain information. An example of an event chat is Wes and Sarah s Wedding which is a private call for media and is occurring now at the Ritz Carlton in Pasadena Calif. is the last message sent for this event from Jennifer Smith stating We need more pics videos of the bride by herself. It is possible that a call for media can occur within a call for media for instance Jennifer Smith can send out a call for media just for pics videos of the bride during a certain part of the wedding in addition to setting up a call for media for the entire wedding. is a public event chat where it is possible to open up the chat to any user to comment upon. A call for media can covert at set times such as when the event occurs to trigger all replies to media must now fit a certain restriction i.e. only specific users can reply only media from a certain location can reply etc. . Calls for media can also have changing restrictions such as a the accepted distance from the location of the event for media replies keeps getting shorter as the event time approaches.

In an embodiment of the invention based upon a method and system of communication a social network can exist for all users based upon the call and response for media. There can be social interaction between users beyond just calling and responding for media such as generally sharing media finding like individuals in the network etc. Users can comment on the media of other users and there can be a social ranking of media and media responders. In order to better assess the value of media submitted responders can be given values to help estimate the quality of their media. For instance a responder that submits high quality media can be given a high value by other users system administrators or the system itself. The high value will automatically increase the chance that the next media that the user captures will also be of high value and will rank the media content higher than other users. There can be many possible ranking variables for responders such as their response time with media to a call or the amount of followers the responder has.

There are many different possible revenue streams and usages for embodiments of the invention. User information can be valuable including the user s demographic information actions interaction with other users etc. which can lead to targeted marketing similar to revenue streams for social networks. For instance users that are requesting media from certain locations such as restaurants can be targeted with advertisement from that specific restaurant or establishments that serve similar cuisine. Users can pay to be event coordinators for a specific location or event. Users that reply with media for a specific event such as attending an alternative rock concert can be suggested to attend similar events that will be occurring in that area. Events or locations can be sponsored by requests for media being sent to users that draws the attention of users to an event or location.

Users could also pay to customize how media is shown for a location or event is shown to users such as filtering media that is shown to users of an event or location. In order to insure a certain perspective or maintain a certain quality of media a specific camera or media can be utilized by an event or location which could cost a premium. There could be advertisement before during or after media that is shown to users for example a commercial for Sizzler could play before media is shown of a fishing trip. Celebrities or brands can pay to make certain calls that can cause exposure for an individual product or brand. Call and response for media can be used for advertising and marketing allowing discounts for users that participate or donations to a political campaign. Products themselves such as services event tickets certificates etc. or tangible goods food consumer goods etc. can be sold via this invention or gifted to others.

The process of creating calls for media and making media replies for an event or location may also have value. Users may have to pay to request media from specific users or certain groups or for specific events or locations. Users may also have to pay to capture media with specific users or certain groups or for specific events or locations. Users may also have to pay to experience media in a specific way such as high quality video may cost more than simply looking at pictures for an event. Each user may have a limit to how much media they can capture or view which can be done via file size type of media or number of media. Users could also pay to customize how media is shown for a location or event is shown to users by paying for added effects or customized presentations of media to users. For a call for media users could pay for media restrictions such as forcing only certain media replies to be accepted for an event or only allowing certain technology to be used for media replies.

Users could also be charged to search through user information and also be charged when searching through media information. Media searches can be done to look for specific brands products people locations times events etc. Users can pay to change information currently associated with user information or media information. Users may have to pay for an enhancement of media such as media that is cleaned by electronic filters or by multiple pieces of media that are utilized together to make media cleaner or clearer.

In addition pooled media for an event can be sold for instance the video pictures or texts gained from multiple user electronic devices at a concert can be utilized in a live or recorded presentation of the concert that is sold to consumers. The combined media gained can be used together or separately for instance the combined audio feed from multiple sources can be used to create a surround sound experience for the concert that could be sold to consumers. The above are just a few examples of revenue streams and in no way represents all the possible revenue streams that can be created from this system and method.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative embodiments exists from the description herein of the invention or inventions without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention may be implemented as a method or apparatus a series of instructions contained in computer readable media article of manufacture or a combination thereof etc. using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass one or more computer programs and data files accessible from one or more computer readable devices carriers media i.e. magnetic storage media floppy disk CD ROM cloud storage a file server providing access to the program via a network transmission line holographic unit etc. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the invention or inventions.

The invention has been shown in the context of a network system where all of the communications were performed through the Internet. However in alternative embodiments many of the functions can be performed by other means of communication such as telephone fax radio etc. For example the user creating the media call may directly call friends to verbally let them know of a call for media.

The invention has been described with respect to the database interface sending calls for media receiving media replies etc. However in alternative embodiments some of the functions of the database interface may be implemented in a separate script program or eliminated altogether. Alternatively the functions shown may be combined or split in any manner amongst one or more systems.

Additionally the invention has been described with respect to four choices that are presented to users to create a call for media however there are other convenient methods of creating a call for media. In addition the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein can be performed across different electronic devices and in any order.

Moreover the invention has been described with respect to users submitting media replies in response to a call for media. The server itself however can proactively search for media relevant to the call for media. In further embodiments the present invention automatically searches for existing media that relates to an event. The server can automatically search for all related media from the details provided about the event and return with media that is possibly related to the event. The search can be performed internally within a system within third party accounts the user may have access to across different platforms and systems and in any existing media databases. The search can also be done externally searching for media across the Internet and utilizing multiple programs to find related media.

In addition the invention has been described in the context of the user and call for media or event information being implemented as database records in a database table. However the user and call for media or event information may be implemented in any format for maintaining object information including spreadsheet non database table etc. Thus as used herein the terms database record database table and database refer to any data structure known in the art for maintaining information on data objects such as relational databases non relational databases spreadsheets ASCII text files etc.

Therefore the description herein of embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Nor does the use of the singular term invention indicate that the invention s disclosed herein are necessarily limited in any way in scope or number. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the teachings herein. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made the concepts methods systems and apparatus disclosed may be used in countless other applications not expressly mentioned herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

