---

title: Method and system for enabling multicast distribution of mobile device update data
abstract: An approach for enabling load efficient delivery of updates and other content to mobile devices is described. A device management platform determines to communicate with a mobile device configured to operate over a cellular network and a local area network, wherein the local area network includes a customer premise gateway. The device management platform also initiates establishment of a multicast session with the mobile device via the customer premise gateway and over the local area network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094801&OS=09094801&RS=09094801
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09094801
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130115
---
Service providers such as wireless services providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network solutions. One area of particular interest is ensuring the software and firmware related to devices configured to a communication network are continually updated. Typically the update procedure is performed periodically by way of a unicast transmission procedure wherein the update data is directed to each individual device by way of the communication network. However delivery of the update data and or other content directly via the communication network further increases the load placed upon the network.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for enabling load efficient delivery of updates and other content to mobile devices.

An apparatus method and software for enabling load efficient delivery of updates and other content to mobile devices is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Currently most network providers e.g. cellular network providers employ firmware over the air FOTA as a scheme or technology for distributing update data wirelessly to subscribed user devices . This means of distribution of update data has increased due to the vast amount of software embedded on user devices wherein updating of the device features and software is enormously challenging once the device is with the user. By way of example FOTA schemes require the unicast transmission of update data to individual user devices directly via the service provider network e.g. wireless network . However as the number of user devices subscribed to the network increases so does the overall traffic load incurred by the network as well as the servers associated with the network that provide the update data. This issue is exacerbated by the increasing amount of traffic incurred by the network due to the growing use of online games video on demand and other data rich services by the user devices . Unfortunately there is currently no convenient means for enabling service providers to seamlessly deliver update data and other content e.g. movies music to devices without taxing the already limited bandwidth resources of the network.

To address this issue system presents a device management platform that is configured to facilitate delivery of update data and other content to user devices via an internet telephony IP multicast transmission scheme. In addition the device management platform operates in connection with respective user devices to manage the update process from start to finish. In certain embodiments the device management platform may be implemented as a hosted solution for access via the network as an integrated modular solution of a user device or node or a combination thereof.

By way of example IP multicast transmission refers to any protocols or methodologies for enabling delivery of information e.g. update data or other content to a group of destination nodes e.g. user devices simultaneously by way of single session from a source location. As such IP multicast transmission protocols may be employed for use at the IP routing level where a network component e.g. a carousel or server device creates an optimal distribution path via an IP network for datagrams sent to a specified destination address. This approach to delivery contrasts with FOTA or other approaches reliant upon unicast transmission wherein data transmission is conveyed directly over a wireless cellular communication network of the service provider network .

For the purpose of illustration one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless cellular network can interact with the service provider network . Reference herein to the service provider network may include networks . The networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

As another example wireless network may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity Wi Fi satellite and the like. It is noted that traditional data deployment schemes such as FOTA are carried out primarily over the wireless network via unicast transmission.

Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network. In addition the data network may be implemented by way of a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. Still further the network may be implemented by way of various network components such as a residential gateway . The residential gateway referred to herein as residential gateways may be configured within a premise such as an office or home. In certain implementations the residential gateway may also serve as a wireless point of access to the service provider network for user devices having the appropriate credentials and permissions for interacting with the residential gateway .

In certain embodiments the device management platform facilitates multicast transmission of update data and other content via the data network to the residential gateways associated with respective user devices . By way of example the update data or content is mapped into a set of multicast groups that are assigned to unique multicast group address. As such when the residential gateway is mapped to one of the unique addresses the gateway receives the update data or content as cast by the source . The residential gateway then forwards the update data or content to the user devices accordingly i.e. to those devices that are members of the same multicast group to which the residential gateway is assigned.

In certain embodiments the sources referred to herein collectively as sources may include any data warehouse server or data repository for maintaining update data e.g. software updates firmware . Also in addition to update data the sources may house streaming content gaming content advertisement information or any other content. The device management platform may be configured to submit requests for delivery of update data such as according to an update schedule maintained for respective devices in association with profile data . Depending on the requirements of the service provider the sources may be maintained directly by the provider of the network or by a third party provider affiliated with the network .

In certain embodiments the sources may be configured to operate in conjunction with a carousel device . The carousel device referred to herein as carousel may be implemented as a server or other device that continuously streams the update data and other content to respective multicast groups. Hence in the case where the various residential gateways are assigned to a multicast group the carousel ensures continuous streaming of the data to the residential gateways . By way of example the carousel may operate along with the source according to an active active mode of operation wherein different multicast source addresses are employed for enabling multicast transmission of the update data or content. Per this execution the update data may be obtained in whole or part from disparate source locations. Alternatively the carousel may be set to operate according to an active standby mode wherein only a single multicast source address is specified for redundancy.

In certain embodiments the user devices configured to interact with the residential gateway may feature an update agent referred to herein as update agent and or associated application referred to herein as application for facilitating the downloading of update data or content to the device . By way of example the application may be client software having instructions for performing physical downloading of the update data or content to the device . Alternatively the application may pass control of the download procedure to a separate update agent . The application and or update agent facilitate passage of the update data to the device or software operating thereon per the device operating system or per an embedded device management tree architecture of the device . This may include for example enabling bootstrapping execution synchronization of the update data or content with existing data sets unpacking of the data computing which regions of the platform memory need to be changed e.g. per the device management tree enabling a fail safe mechanism for firmware software updates etc.

In certain embodiments the application and or update agent may facilitate the rendering of prompts to a display of the user of the device for specifying the status or details regarding the update procedure. This may include for example the rendering of a prompt for receiving user acknowledgement or acceptance of the update data or content in response to detection of the data via the multicast broadcast per the gateway . In addition the agent or application may render a message for indicating the success or failure of the update data or content for execution by the user device .

Still further in certain implementations the update agent and or application may be configured to interact with the device management platform for conveying the results of the update procedure. For example the agent and or application may submit a confirmation message to the platform for indicating user acceptance of the update data or content as transmitted via the residential gateway . Based on this feedback the device management platform is then able to update profile data associated with the accepting device for indicating that the update was made. In addition the update agent and or application may be configured to periodically convey device characteristic data to the device management platform including current software version information operating system and or device feature information and the like. By way of this information the device management platform can maintain a current status of the device for comparison against a release schedule for update data or content.

In certain embodiments a user of a residential gateway user device s or a combination thereof may register with the device management platform to enable multicast session based delivery of the update data and other content. The registration may be performed by way of a configuration interface of the provider of the network or via one or more settings options at the user device . By way of example the settings may include a specification of the IP address of the residential gateway as well as the multicast groups the gateway is to be mapped e.g. as associated with the sources . The mapping may be specified automatically based on the type of software or device features to be updated. In addition the settings may include a specification of the number of devices to be configured for multicast session interaction as well as their corresponding device identifiers.

It is noted that the system may operate within any service provider network implementation including those wherein the data network and wireless network are not associated with a common service provider network . For example per the device management platform the cellular network provider may differ from the internet service provider. This is due in part to the hybrid architectural approach of the system wherein distribution of the update data or content is facilitated via an IP based communication protocol e.g. multicast protocol for execution by user devices configured to the wireless cellular network .

As an advantage the above described approach of system enables the update data or content to be offloaded from the wireless cellular network of a service provider to an internet service provider e.g. data network . This reduces the reliance upon unicast delivery of update data or content via the cellular network while leveraging the ISP managed network associated with the user device .

As another advantage the approach described herein per system reduces the update data and content delivery costs of the service provider. This is because the device management platform may be configured to facilitate distribution pushing of e media e learning UI customization skins icons and menu targeted advertisements and other content for revenue generating activities. By way of example gaming content may be transmitted from the source to a residential gateway of a registered user device for enabling in home stream delivery via the multicast enabled network of the internet service provider. As yet another advantage system is a readily scalable solution. For example as the number of user devices subscribed to the cellular network increases there is no associated degradation of network performance.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates user devices for interaction with the device management platform . By way of example in the case of a user device the authentication module receives a request to associate a residential gateway configured at a premise of the user of the device with the profile data associated with the device . This may include for example specifying of an IP address of the residential gateway . In addition the authentication module may facilitate mapping of the residential gateway with specific multicast groups based on the type of software and or device features to be updated. In addition the settings may include a specification of the number of devices to be configured for multicast session interaction as well as their corresponding device identifiers.

It is noted the registration procedure may be performed through automated association of profile information maintained by a provider of the network with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier. Under this scenario the authentication module may operate in connection with the communication module to facilitate the retrieval of the profile information.

The authentication module may also be configured to receive feedback information from the update agent or application of a respective device . The feedback information may include device status information as well as update status details in response to initiation of an update. Still further the authentication module may operate in connection with a user interface module for enabling the downloading of the update agent or application to the device per the authentication procedure.

In certain embodiments the object retrieval module retrieves profile data pertaining to the devices that are to be updated. The module then performs a lookup against the profile data associated with the devices to determine which specific software firmware or other components of the device require updating. This corresponds to a determination of the specific data sources i.e. source locations which the update data and or content are to be retrieved from. It is noted that the retrieval process may be performed periodically by the module such as in accordance with an update cycle or schedule defined by the network service provider or the user e.g. a user setting for indicating updating of a mapping application one time per month .

By way of example the module may compare a current version of firmware or software of the device against the active firmware or software version list. If the active version is determined to be outdated the module may submit a request for transmission of the appropriate source objects from the sources accordingly. It is noted that the request may include a specification of the multicast group address to which the residential gateway of the user device is assigned. In addition the object retrieval module may initiate a mode of operation of the carousel for carrying out the multicast transmission to the gateway . For example the module may specify an active active mode of operation or an active standby mode be employed by the carousel .

In certain embodiments the update completion module manages and tracks the update procedure lifecycle from the moment of update initiation to installation and reporting. This includes for example ensuring firmware update delta submission are retrieved from all sources . In addition the module may interact with the user interface module to receive user feedback regarding the update data and or content. For example in response to a prompt initiated for rendering by the user interface module for indicating availability of an update the update completion module may log the user approval and or acknowledgement of the update data and or content. In addition the update completion module may verify and or acknowledge proper triggering of the update data for download as well as installation and test of the update data at the user device .

Once this feedback is gathered the update completion module also updates the profile data for the device to specify the current updated status of the software and or firmware subject to the update. This may include updating a list as associated with the profile data for specifying current software versions version dates etc.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for initiation the rendering of prompts to a display of the user of the device . The prompts may be rendered in the form of a message for indicating the status of the update procedure or details related thereto. The prompt may also be a message for receiving user acknowledgement or acceptance of the update data or content in response to detection of the data via the multicast broadcast per the gateway . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the application of the user devices or sharing application of the nodes thus enabling the display of graphics primitives.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the device management platform the sources and respective residential gateways of the user devices . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling data exchange over the network . It is noted also that the communication module may be configured to interact with a carousel device or service to which the source is associated.

The above presented modules and components of the device management platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. For example though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated the device management platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective devices or even integrated for use with a residential gateway . As such the device management platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the internal operating system for interacting with the application and interfacing with a corresponding sharing application of nodes . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective devices as a hosted solution.

In step the device management platform determines to communicate with a mobile device configured to operate over a cellular network and a local area network wherein the local area network includes a customer premise gateway. As noted previously the customer premise gateway may include network devices such as routers or servers configured within a customer premise such as a home or office. In another step the platform initiates establishment of a multicast session with the mobile device via the customer premise gateway and over the local area network.

In step of process the device management platform retrieves an update package for the mobile device. In another step the platform initiates delivery of the update package over the multicast session to the mobile device. In another step the platform maps one or more data objects into a multicast group that includes the mobile device. It is noted that the data objects represent the update package the objects including code to update firmware software or a combination thereof of the mobile device.

Still further per step the platform determines to off load the delivery of the update package over the multicast session based upon loading of the cellular network. This may include for example a determined network load condition of the cellular network.

In step of process the device management platform determines to avoid delivery of media over the cellular network to the mobile device. As noted this corresponds to delivery of the media such as advertisement content or gaming content to the mobile device through the residential gateway. In step the platform initiates delivery of the media over a multicast enabled network using the multicast session to the mobile device. It is noted that the multicast enabled network may be that associated with the internet service provider of the user as employed for execution of the local area network.

In step of process the update agent and or application of the user device presents a prompt to update a mobile device that is configured to operate over a cellular network and a local area network. In another step a request is generated to a customer premise gateway over the local area network. The request is to join a multicast group to receive an update package to update the mobile device. As noted the multicast group is associated with a multicast enabled network that is separate from the cellular network.

In another step the update agent and or application of the user device determines receipt of the update package. This may correspond to a receipt of user input for indicating acceptance and or acknowledgement of the update per the prompting step . Per step execution of the update package at the device to update firmware software or a combination thereof of the mobile device is recorded.

As noted previously the recorded execution data may be submitted subsequently to the device management platform as feedback information. The device management platform may then perform various follow up procedures or update profile data related to the user device in response to the outcome of the update. In addition a request to drop membership with unjoin the multicast group may be submitted by the application and or update agent in response to fulfillment of the update.

In step of the device management platform determines an update to specific software firmware or a combination thereof for the user device is required or available. The update may be triggered optionally per step based on device and or software status information periodically exchanged with the platform by the user device . As another example the update may be triggered automatically according to a periodic update schedule maintained by the device management platform per profile data for the user device . As yet another example the update may be triggered based on updating of data maintained by the source . This may correspond to a push service implementation wherein newly added data at the source is immediately transmitted to a subscribed recipient to the source data.

In response to the update need per step the device management platform submits a request for delivery of the update package e.g. update data or content to the source . This step may also pertain to initiating of the carousel for transmission of the update data or content from the multicast source to the corresponding multicast group address e.g. corresponding to the residential gateway . In step the update data or content is then sent to the gateway which further casts the update data or content to the target user devices per step .

Once the multicast session is formed with the user device the update data or content is executed per step . The execution may include for example rendering prompts for receiving user acceptance or rejection of the update data or content. This may also include unpacking the update packages and computing which regions of the device memory need to be updated accordingly in response to acceptance of the update data or content. In step the user device may submit feedback information to the device management platform for indicating the status and or outcome of the update. This step may also correspond to submission of a request to the residential gateway to close the group multicast session upon completion of the update.

In yet another step in response to the feedback information the device management platform updates the profile for the user device . This may include adapting a software or firmware version number an update date a device status etc. In addition the update schedule associated with the software or firmware components of the device may be adapted to account for the most recent update occurrence.

In the device management platform initiates a rendering of a prompt to a display of the user device for indicating the availability of an update. Under this scenario the prompt is triggered in response to a determination by the platform that additional updates corresponding to a video player application of the device is available at the source. As such the prompt includes YES and NO action buttons and respectively for receiving user acknowledgement acceptance or rejection of the update.

In in response to user acceptance of the update per selection of action button the device management platform initiates a rendering of a status prompt to the display of the user device . Under this scenario the status prompt indicates a current status or progress of the update procedure. It is noted that the device management platform operates in connection with an update agent or application of the device to facilitate the loading of the update data to the specific components of the application requiring updating.

While not shown the same user interface executions shown with respect to device may occur at device with respect to the same application. It is noted however that while multicast transmission of the update data from the gateway occurs for both devices simultaneously acceptance of the update may occur at different times depending on the status of the device e.g. device off or on . In this case the update may be resumed automatically upon activation of the device as a result of persistent recasting of the update data via the carousel to the gateway and based on feedback information regarding the update.

The processes described herein for enabling load efficient delivery of updates and other content to mobile devices may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable load efficient delivery of updates and other content to mobile devices. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

