---

title: Enterprise biometric authentication system
abstract: An enterprise biometric authentication system for use with a network of client computing devices, each client computing device executing an operating system with a biometric framework component including a client biometric service, a client engine adapter, a client engine wrapper, and a server subsystem further including a server database, a server storage adapter, a server engine adapter, and a server component. The client engine wrapper resides on a client computing device and is operable to intercept requests from the client biometric service to the client engine adapter and to transmit the requests. The server storage adapter may store and retrieve biometric templates from the server database. The server engine adapter may generate and compare biometric templates. The server component may receive the requests from the client engine wrapper, forward the requests to the server engine adapter, and transmit results of the requests to the client engine wrapper.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959586&OS=08959586&RS=08959586
owner: Ceelox Patents, LLC
number: 08959586
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131021
---
This application is a continuation patent application and claims priority benefit with regard to all common subject matter of earlier filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 964 990 entitled ENTERPRISE BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION SYSTEM FOR A WINDOWS BIOMETRIC FRAMEWORK filed Dec. 10 2010 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 566 904 on Oct. 22 2013 the 904 Patent . The 904 Patent claims priority benefit with regard to all common subject matter of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 286 278 entitled ENTERPRISE BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION SYSTEM filed Dec. 14 2009. The above referenced patent and provisional patent application are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application in their entirety.

The present invention relates to authentication methods for computing devices. More particularly the invention relates to biometric authentication for computing devices over a communications network.

Networks of computing devices wherein each computing device has Windows 7 as an operating system may utilize the Windows Biometric Framework WBF to implement a biometric authentication system on each computing device. In operation of the biometric authentication system on a given computing device a user may provide a live sample via a biometric sensor such as swiping his finger on a fingerprint scanner. The live sample may be used to generate a biometric template that is compared to a biometric template associated with the user and already stored on the computing device. If the templates match then the user is authenticated and is allowed access to secure resources on the computing device or other devices on the network. However with Windows 7 that utilizes the WBF the biometric authentication system on each computing device is functional only on that device such that a user enrolled to access secure resources through a first computing device may not access the resources through a second device without re enrolling on the second device. Likewise for all other computing devices on the network.

Embodiments of the present invention solve the above mentioned problems and provide a distinct advance in the art of biometric authentication systems. More particularly embodiments of the invention provide a system and methods for enterprise biometric authentication on a network of computing devices that each implement Windows 7 operating system that includes Windows Biometric Framework WBF components. The current invention provides for the WBF to be distributed across a network.

Various embodiments of the enterprise biometric authentication system comprise a client engine wrapper and a server subsystem further including a server database a server storage adapter a server engine adapter and a server component. The client engine wrapper resides on a client computing device and is operable to intercept requests from the client biometric service a component of the WBF to the client engine adapter a component of the WBF and to transmit the requests to the server subsystem. The server storage adapter may store and retrieve biometric templates from the server database. The server engine adapter may generate and compare biometric templates. The server component may receive the requests from the client engine wrapper forward the requests to the server engine adapter and transmit results of the requests to the client engine wrapper.

Various embodiments of a method for authenticating a user to be implemented with a network of client computing devices each client computing device executing Windows 7 operating system with WBF components including a client biometric service and a client engine adapter comprise the steps of receiving an authentication request including user data with a client engine wrapper from the client biometric service intended for the client engine adapter determining whether a server component is available with the client engine wrapper transmitting the request to the server component from the client engine wrapper if the server component is available retrieving a stored biometric template associated with the user data from a server database performing an authentication with a server engine adapter transmitting an authentication result to the client engine wrapper retrieving a stored biometric template associated with the user data from a client database if the server component is not available and performing an authentication with the client engine adapter.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the present invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.

The following detailed description of the invention references the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but is not necessarily included. Thus the present technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

An enterprise biometric authentication system constructed in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention is shown in . The system broadly comprises a client engine wrapper and a server subsystem which further includes a server engine adapter a server storage adapter a server database and a server component . The enterprise biometric authentication system may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof and may be configured to work with and adapt a plurality of stand alone biometric authentication systems to allow biometric authentication across a network.

In various embodiments the components of the enterprise biometric authentication system may be implemented as software programs or processor executable code segments that may be stored on a computer readable medium. In the context of this application a computer readable medium can be any device that can contain or store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electro magnetic or semi conductor system apparatus or device. More specific although not inclusive examples of the computer readable medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard drive a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disk read only memory CDROM a digital video disc DVD a Blu Ray disc and the like.

Networks of computing devices wherein each computing device has Windows 7 from Microsoft Inc. in Redmond Wash. as an operating system may utilize the Windows Biometric Framework WBF to implement a biometric authentication system on each computing device. In operation of the biometric authentication system on a given computing device a user may provide a live sample via a biometric sensor such as swiping his finger on a fingerprint scanner. The live sample may be used to generate a biometric template that is compared to a biometric template associated with the user that is already stored on the computing device also known as an enrolled or stored template. If the templates match then the user is authenticated and is allowed to gain access to secure resources on the computing device or other devices on the network. However with Windows 7 utilizing the WBF the biometric authentication system on each computing device is functional only on that device such that a user enrolled to access secure resources through a first computing device may not access the resources through a second device without re enrolling on the second device. Likewise for all other computing devices on the network.

The enterprise biometric authentication system allows a user to access secure resources through any Windows 7 computing device after enrolling only once. The client engine wrapper may be installed on or accessed by every computing device on the network to interface with the WBF on each device. The server subsystem may be installed on or accessed by just one computing device on the network. In some embodiments the computing device on which the server subsystem resides may be a device that includes a biometric sensor and biometric authentication system. In other embodiments the server subsystem may reside on a computing device that does not include a biometric sensor and biometric authentication system. Furthermore in various embodiments there may be multiple server subsystems that act as backups or redundancies to the main server subsystem .

An example of the computing device is a client computing device as shown in . The client computing device generally comprises any device that is capable of running an operating system and executing software applications such as a workstation a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a palmtop computer and the like. The client computing device may also include mobile devices including wireless communication devices. The client computing device generally also includes data processing circuitry coupled with memory components to execute computer code or software such as processors microprocessors multi core microprocessors microcontrollers combinations thereof and the like.

In various embodiments the client computing device runs the Windows 7 operating system and may also include or be able to access a client application and the WBF components including a client biometric service a client sensor adapter a client storage adapter a client database and a client engine adapter . In addition a biometric sensor may be in communication with the client computing device .

The client sensor adapter the client storage adapter and the client engine adapter may communicate with each other and the client application through the client biometric service in accordance with the Windows 7 WBF architecture. In combination these components may allow the user to perform authentication as well as manage biometric templates.

The client application may be a computer program with which the user interfaces that requires access to biometric data. In some embodiments the client application may be a program that the user initiates or executes himself. In other embodiments the client application may be automatically run by the client computing device . The client application may be a program that requests biometric authentication to allow access to secure resources such as a system login screen to allow the user system access an email reader to allow the user to view email a file viewer to allow the user to access secure documents a web browser to allow the user access to secure information and the like. The client application may also be a program that allows the user to manage biometric templates such as enrolling another user or removing templates of users who are no longer allowed access to secure resources. The client application may include a window with standard user interface components such as list boxes pull down menus popup windows buttons scroll bars and the like.

The client biometric service may be a software component that runs as a provided service of the Windows 7 operating system. The client biometric service may include an application programming interface API that interacts with one or more client applications and a biometric service provider BSP that interacts with the client sensor adapter the client storage adapter and the client engine adapter . The client biometric service may receive requests from the client application for authentication or biometric template management and may direct the request to the client sensor adapter the client storage adapter or the client engine adapter or combinations thereof. The client biometric service may also receive requests or data in response to other requests from one or more of the client sensor adapter the client storage adapter or the client engine adapter and may direct the requests or data to the appropriate destination.

The client sensor adapter may be a software component executed on or accessible by the client computing device that schedules or controls the operation of the biometric sensor . For example the client sensor adapter may instruct the biometric sensor to perform a biometric scan and send the captured live sample to the client biometric service . The client sensor adapter may translate requests and commands from the client biometric service into instructions for a particular biometric sensor. Thus the client sensor adapter may include an adapter for each specific biometric sensor that is coupled to the client computing device . Typically the client sensor adapter is supplied by the manufacturer of the biometric sensor .

The client storage adapter may be a software component executed on or accessible by the client computing device that receives and responds to requests from the client biometric service for biometric template data utilizing at least in part the client database . For example the client storage adapter may store biometric templates in the client database and may retrieve biometric templates from the client database . Generally the biometric templates for storage and retrieval are passed through the client biometric service . The biometric templates may be associated with user data such as a username password user identifier or other data relating to a user. Thus the request for biometric template data may include user data as a reference. Typically the client storage adapter is supplied by the manufacturer of the biometric sensor .

The client database may be a repository to store and retrieve biometric templates on the client computing device . The client database may be a text database relational database hierarchical database a collection of files or other database capable of storing and retrieving data. In various embodiments the client database may be a SQLite database or a Microsoft SQL Server database. The client database is generally managed by the client storage adapter which may send data to and receive data from the client database .

The client engine adapter may be a software component executed on or accessible by the client computing device that generally functions only when the client engine wrapper cannot access the server subsystem . Otherwise the client engine wrapper intercepts and handles all requests that are intended for the client engine adapter as described in more detail below.

The client engine adapter receives and responds to requests to perform biometric data processing including authentication and enrollment. The authentication request may include verification or identification as discussed below. The request may include user data and biometric indicia among other information such as the biometric sensor identification or a specified engine adapter and the like. The biometric indicia may include a recently captured live sample or a biometric template generated by the biometric sensor or other software components on the client computing device .

The client engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from a live sample captured on the biometric sensor . The client engine adapter may also perform biometric template matching during authentication operations. In various embodiments the client engine adapter may further perform biometric data normalization and feature extraction.

When performing an authentication operation if the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample then the client engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from the sample. If the request is for verification then the client engine adapter may request a stored biometric template associated with the user data from the client storage adapter to be retrieved from the client database . The client engine adapter may then compare the captured biometric template with the stored biometric template. The comparison may generate a binary success or failure result a numeric value of the correlation or a combination thereof. If the request is for identification then the client engine adapter may request all stored biometric templates from the client storage adapter . The client engine adapter may then compare the captured biometric template with each of the stored biometric templates. The comparison may generate a binary success or failure result a numeric value of the correlation or a combination thereof for each stored biometric template. The result of the comparison may be reported back to the client application through the client biometric service .

If the biometric indicia of the request includes a biometric template generated elsewhere and if the request is for verification then the client engine adapter may request a stored biometric template associated with the user data from the client storage adapter perform the comparison and generate the result. If the request is for identification then the client engine adapter may request all stored biometric templates from the client storage adapter and compare the captured biometric template with each of the stored templates. The result of the comparison for all of the templates may be reported back to the client application through the client biometric service .

When performing an enrollment operation if the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample then the client engine adapter may generate a biometric template from the sample and forward the biometric template to the client storage adapter to be stored in the client database . If the biometric indicia of the request includes a biometric template generated elsewhere then the client engine adapter may simply forward the biometric template to the client storage adapter to be stored in the client database .

The client engine adapter may include various software or firmware algorithms or may have access to hardware accelerators in order to perform the biometric data processing. Typically the client engine adapter is supplied by the manufacturer of the biometric sensor .

The biometric sensor generally scans or otherwise senses a live sample from a user and transfers the captured live sample to the client computing device . The biometric sensor may include a port such as a window to receive biometric components such as a user s finger hand iris DNA or the like. In various embodiments the biometric sensor may also include hardware software or firmware components or combinations thereof capable of generating a biometric template from the captured live sample. The biometric sensor may be a standalone unit in communication with the client computing device or may be integrated with the client computing device . Exemplary manufacturers of biometric sensors include AuthenTec of Melbourne Fla. and Validity Sensors Inc. of San Jose Calif. Generally the biometric sensor is instructed to perform a scan by the client sensor adapter and the captured biometric indicia may be transmitted to the client biometric service .

The client engine wrapper may be a software component executed on or accessible by the client computing device that intercepts requests to perform biometric data processing intended for the client engine adapter . The client engine wrapper intercepts the requests from the client biometric service and sends the requests to the server subsystem . If the server subsystem is not available then the client engine wrapper acts transparent allowing requests to pass through to the client engine adapter and returning responses from the client engine adapter . Thus in such a situation the client engine adapter functions normally as described above.

The client engine wrapper may include network communications components or subcomponents that allow the client engine wrapper to send and receive data over a network such as a local area network LAN a metro area network MAN or a wide area network WAN with a variety of topologies protocols and architectures. The client engine wrapper may be also be able to encrypt and decrypt data using the Advanced Encryption Standard AES 256 algorithm and to transmit and receive data using network sockets or other communication mechanisms.

To function the client engine wrapper may appear to the operating system of the client computing device as an engine adapter. The client engine wrapper may be entered in allocation tables configuration files the data registry or the like as the client engine adapter so that the operating system and components like the client biometric service recognize the client engine wrapper as the client engine adapter . In addition the client engine wrapper appears as the client biometric service to the client engine adapter .

The client engine wrapper may communicate with the server subsystem through a network connection as shown in . The network connection may include any cluster of computing devices in communication with each other and or with a server computing device and may further include cloud connections such as the Internet. The network connection may be wired including metal conductive cables such coax or twisted pair optical media such as optical fibers or combinations thereof. The network connection may also be wireless and may utilize radio frequency RF communication standards such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards.

The server subsystem and it components may be installed on or accessed by any processor based computing device that has the network connection such that the server subsystem is operable to communicate with the client engine wrapper . The computing device on which the server subsystem is installed may be substantially similar to the client computing device . In some embodiments the server subsystem may be installed on a client computing device .

The server engine adapter the server storage adapter and the server database may be substantially similar to the client engine adapter the client storage adapter and the client database respectively. Generally the server engine adapter performs the role of the client engine adapter described above when the server subsystem is unavailable. Within the network of client computing devices there may be a plurality of different client engine adapters in use as provided by or specified by the biometric sensor manufacturer. Therefore in some embodiments the server subsystem may include a plurality of server engine adapters in order to be compatible with the biometric sensors of all the client computing devices . In other embodiments the server subsystem may include a generic or general purpose server engine adapter that is compatible with a variety of biometric sensors .

The server storage adapter may store and retrieve biometric templates from the server database which retains the biometric templates. Typically the server database retains the biometric templates of all the users who have been granted access to secure resources whereas each client database generally retains the biometric templates of only those users who have utilized that particular client computing device to access secure resources.

The server component may be a software program that receives requests from the client engine wrapper to process biometric data and transmits results from the server subsystem operations to the client engine wrapper . The server component may parse the request in order to distribute the request to the appropriate server engine adapter if the server subsystem includes more than one server engine adapter . In addition the server component may process at least a portion of some requests. In various embodiments the server component may perform functions similar to those of the client biometric service .

After requests have been handled by the server engine adapter the server component may return the results of the operations to the client engine wrapper . In addition the server component may transmit the biometric template associated with the user data to the client engine wrapper .

Like the client engine wrapper the server component may include network communications components or subcomponents to send and receive data over a network as well as components that are operable to encrypt and decrypt data. In various embodiments all communication between the server component and the client engine wrapper may be encrypted.

The enterprise biometric authentication system may operate as follows. The client engine wrapper may be installed on or made accessible to each network connected client computing device that runs the Windows 7 operating system and includes Windows Biometric Framework components of the client biometric service the client sensor adapter the client storage adapter the client database and the client engine adapter along with the client application as shown in . On each client computing device in the registry set allocation tables configuration files or the like the client engine wrapper may be identified as the client engine adapter . The server subsystem may be installed on any computing device in the network including a client computing device .

A user may utilize any client computing device to perform biometric data operations such as new user enrollment biometric authentication and the like. The user may execute the client application in order to manage biometric templates or to perform an authentication for gaining access to secured resources. The client application may instruct the user to provide a live sample such as by allowing the biometric sensor to scan one or more fingers. Other forms of biometric data may be presented as well such as a user s iris DNA etc. The client application may also send a request through the client biometric service to the client sensor adapter to instruct the biometric sensor to perform a biometric scan. The captured biometric indicia may be communicated from the biometric sensor to the client biometric service . The user may also be instructed to enter user data such as a user name and a password.

The client biometric service may forward a request for authentication or enrollment to the client engine adapter . The request may include user data biometric indicia and other information such as a specified engine adapter. However the client engine wrapper may receive the request instead of the client engine adapter . The client engine wrapper may try to establish communication with the server subsystem . If the server subsystem is available then the client engine wrapper may transmit the request to the server subsystem . The server component may receive the transmitted information.

The server component may parse the request if necessary to determine which server engine adapter receives the request and may send the request to the appropriate server engine adapter .

When responding to an authentication request if the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample and if verification is requested then the server engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from the sample and request a stored biometric template associated with the user data from the server storage adapter to be retrieved from the server database . The server engine adapter may then compare the captured biometric template with the stored biometric template. The comparison may generate a binary success or failure result a numeric value of the correlation or a combination thereof. If identification is requested then the server engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from the sample and request all of the biometric templates stored in the server database . The server engine adapter may compare the captured biometric template with each of the stored biometric templates. The result of the comparison may be reported back to the server component which in turn may forward the result to the client engine wrapper .

If the biometric indicia of the request includes a biometric template generated elsewhere and if verification is requested then the server engine adapter may request a stored biometric template associated with the user data from the server storage adapter perform the comparison and generate the result. If identification is requested then the server engine adapter may request all of the biometric templates stored in the server database . The server engine adapter may compare the captured biometric template with each of the stored biometric templates. The result of the comparison may be reported back to the server component which in turn may forward the result to the client engine wrapper .

When responding to an enrollment request if the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample then the server engine adapter may generate a biometric template from the sample and forward the biometric template to the server storage adapter to be stored in the server database . If the biometric indicia of the request includes a biometric template generated elsewhere then the server engine adapter may simply forward the biometric template to the server storage adapter to be stored in the server database .

After responding to either request the server engine adapter may forward the stored biometric template associated with the user data to the server component to be transmitted to the client engine wrapper which may send the biometric template to the client storage adapter to be stored in the client database . Thus the client database may have a copy of the user s biometric template for authentication purposes in case the client engine wrapper is unable to communicate with the server subsystem as discussed in more detail below.

If the client engine wrapper is unable to establish communication with the server subsystem then the Windows Biometric Framework components on the client computing device may function as they would without the enterprise biometric authentication system in place. The client engine wrapper may transparently pass requests from the client biometric service to the client engine adapter for normal processing. The client engine wrapper may also pass the results of the requests from the client engine adapter to the client biometric service .

There may be some situations in which the client engine wrapper does not forward an enrollment request to the server subsystem even if the server subsystem is available. For example it may be desired to perform the enrollment quickly or perhaps to cut down on network traffic since enrollment may require multiple scans of life samples. In such situations the client engine wrapper may forward an enrollment request to the client engine adapter instead of the server component . After the client engine adapter generates a biometric template or verifies that it has received a biometric template the client engine adapter may transfer the biometric template to the client engine wrapper . At this point the client engine wrapper may forward the biometric template to both the client storage adapter through the client biometric service and the server component which in turn may transfer the biometric template to the server storage adapter .

There may be additional situations in which the client engine wrapper does not forward an enrollment request to the server subsystem even if the server subsystem is available. For example it may be necessary to consolidate the client database and the server database . The client engine wrapper may forward an enrollment request to the client engine adapter and may receive the biometric template back from the client engine adapter . The client engine wrapper may forward the biometric template to the client storage adapter and may also request all of the biometric templates from the client database . The client engine wrapper may receive the biometric templates and forward them to the server subsystem . The server component may then forward the biometric templates to the server storage adapter for storage on the server database . In various embodiments the server engine adapter may determine the scan date for each of the biometric templates so that the most recent biometric template for each user is stored in the server database .

Under normal circumstances the server subsystem is available to receive requests from all of the client computing devices . However if the server subsystem is unavailable then the client computing devices can still authenticate users in a standalone mode with the drawback being that users new to a particular client computing device may have to re enroll in order to gain access to secure resources.

Steps of a method for authenticating a user utilizing the enterprise biometric authentication system with a network of client computing devices that are executing the Windows 7 operating system including the Windows Biometric Framework WBF in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . The steps may be performed in the order shown in or they may be performed in a different order. Furthermore some steps may be performed concurrently as opposed to sequentially. In addition some steps may be optional.

Referring to step an authentication request is received that is intended for a client engine adapter . The client engine adapter may be installed or accessible by the client computing device as part of the WBF which also includes a client biometric service . The request may be transmitted by the client biometric service and received by a client engine wrapper . The request may include user data biometric indicia and other information such as a specified engine adapter.

Referring to step the client engine wrapper determines if a server component is available. The server component may be part of a server subsystem that resides on a computing device that is accessible through the network. Thus the client engine wrapper sends a communication to the server component through the network.

Referring to step if the server component responds then the client engine wrapper transmits the request to the server component . The server subsystem may include one or more server engine adapters . The server component may parse the request to determine which server engine adapter receives the request and may forward the request thereto.

Referring to step a stored biometric template associated with the user data is retrieved from a server database . The server engine adapter may send a request to a server storage adapter to retrieve the biometric template stored in the server database .

Referring to step an authentication is performed with the server engine adapter . If the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample then the server engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from the sample and compare the captured biometric template with the stored biometric template. The comparison may generate a binary success or failure result a numeric value of the correlation or a combination thereof.

Referring to step the authentication result is transmitted to the client engine wrapper . The result may first be passed to the server component which then transmits the result.

Referring to step the result is reported to the client biometric service from the client engine wrapper . The client biometric service may then send the result to the client application .

Referring to step the biometric template associated with the user data is transmitted to the client engine wrapper from the server component . The biometric template may then be forwarded to the client storage adapter for storage in the client database .

Referring to step if the server component is not available then a stored biometric template associated with the user data is retrieved from a client database . When the server component is unavailable the client engine wrapper acts transparent and allows requests to pass from the client biometric service to the client engine adapter . The client engine adapter may send a request to a client storage adapter to retrieve the biometric template stored in the client database .

Referring to step an authentication is performed with the client engine adapter . If the biometric indicia of the request includes a live sample then the client engine adapter may generate a captured biometric template from the sample and compare the captured biometric template with the stored biometric template. The comparison may generate a binary success or failure result a numeric value of the correlation or a combination thereof.

Referring to step the result is reported to the client biometric service from the client engine adapter . The result may pass through the client engine wrapper . The client biometric service may then send the result to the client application .

Steps of a method for enrolling a user utilizing the enterprise biometric authentication system with a network of client computing devices that are executing the Windows 7 operating system including the Windows Biometric Framework WBF in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . The steps may be performed in the order shown in or they may be performed in a different order. Furthermore some steps may be performed concurrently as opposed to sequentially. In addition some steps may be optional.

Referring to step an enrollment request is received that is intended for a client engine adapter . The client engine adapter may be installed or accessible by the client computing device as part of the WBF which also includes a client biometric service . The request may be transmitted by the client biometric service and received by a client engine wrapper . The request may include user data biometric indicia and other information such as a specified engine adapter.

Referring to step the client engine wrapper determines if a server component is available. The server component may be part of a server subsystem that resides on a computing device that is accessible through the network. Thus the client engine wrapper sends a communication to the server component through the network.

Referring to step if the server component responds then the client engine wrapper transmits the request to the server component . The server subsystem may include one or more server engine adapters . The server component may parse the request to determine which server engine adapter receives the request and may forward the request thereto.

Referring to step the server engine adapter determines if a biometric template is included in the request. The biometric template associated with the user data may be generated by a biometric sensor or by other components accessible by the client computing device .

Referring to step if the biometric template is not included in the request then a biometric template associated with the user data is generated by the server engine adapter .

Referring to step if the biometric template is included in the request or if the biometric template has been generated by the server engine adapter then the biometric template is transmitted to a server storage adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is stored in a server database as initiated by the server storage adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is also transmitted to the client engine wrapper . The biometric template may be transmitted by the server component . The next step in the sequence may be step discussed below.

Referring to step if the server component is not available then the client engine adapter determines if a biometric template is included in the request.

Referring to step if the biometric template is not included in the request then a biometric template associated with the user data is generated by the client engine adapter .

Referring to step if the biometric template is included in the request if the biometric template has been generated by the client engine adapter or if the biometric template has been forwarded from the server component then the biometric template is transmitted to a client storage adapter . The biometric template may be transmitted from the client engine wrapper .

Referring to step the biometric template is stored in a client database as initiated by the client storage adapter .

Steps of a second embodiment of a method for enrolling a user utilizing the enterprise biometric authentication system with a network of client computing devices that are executing the Windows 7 operating system including the Windows Biometric Framework WBF in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . The steps may be performed in the order shown in or they may be performed in a different order. Furthermore some steps may be performed concurrently as opposed to sequentially. In addition some steps may be optional.

Referring to step an enrollment request is received that is intended for a client engine adapter . The client engine adapter may be installed or accessible by the client computing device as part of the WBF which also includes a client biometric service . The request may be transmitted by the client biometric service and received by a client engine wrapper . The request may include user data biometric indicia and other information such as a specified engine adapter. The request may be forwarded by the client engine wrapper to the client engine adapter .

Referring to step the client engine adapter determines if a biometric template is included in the request.

Referring to step if the biometric template is not included in the request then a biometric template associated with the user data is generated by the client engine adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is transmitted from the client engine adapter to the client engine wrapper .

Referring to step the client engine wrapper transmits the biometric template to a client storage adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is stored in a client database by the client storage adapter .

Referring to step the client engine wrapper transmits the biometric template to a server component that is part of a server subsystem .

Referring to step the server component transmits the biometric template to a server storage adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is stored in a server database by the server storage adapter .

Steps of a third embodiment of a method for enrolling a user utilizing the enterprise biometric authentication system with a network of client computing devices that are executing the Windows 7 operating system including the Windows Biometric Framework WBF in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . The steps may be performed in the order shown in or they may be performed in a different order. Furthermore some steps may be performed concurrently as opposed to sequentially. In addition some steps may be optional.

Referring to step an enrollment request is received that is intended for a client engine adapter . The client engine adapter may be installed or accessible by the client computing device as part of the WBF which also includes a client biometric service . The request may be transmitted by the client biometric service and received by a client engine wrapper . The request may include user data biometric indicia and other information such as a specified engine adapter. The request may be forwarded by the client engine wrapper to the client engine adapter .

Referring to step the client engine adapter determines if a biometric template is included in the request.

Referring to step if the biometric template is not included in the request then a biometric template associated with the user data is generated by the client engine adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is transmitted from the client engine adapter to a client storage adapter . The biometric template may pass through the client engine wrapper and a client biometric service in traveling from the client engine adapter to the client storage adapter .

Referring to step the biometric template is stored in a client database by the client storage adapter .

Referring to step the client engine wrapper requests all of the biometric templates stored in the client database .

Referring to step all of the biometric templates are transmitted from the client engine wrapper to a server component .

Referring to step all of the biometric templates are transmitted from the server component to a server storage adapter .

Referring to step all of the biometric templates are transmitted from the server storage adapter to a server database . In various embodiments a server engine adapter may determine the scan date for each of the biometric templates so that the most recent biometric template for each user is stored in the server database .

Although the invention has been described with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims.

